ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28008	Please take your seats, we're late. Gentlemen of the NGO sector, sit down, please. MPs, take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 58th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. So, I say hello again. At this point we have 31 MPs present, with a tendency to come more MPs and we have a quorum to work with. The absence from today's session was justified by gentlemen: Jovan Todorović, Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović, Sead Jamakosmanović and Azra Hadžiahmetović. In short, I will introduce you and explain some changes in the agenda in relation to the call you received earlier. So, yesterday was held, as usual, a session of the Extended College, which practically established the agenda of which you received today's contents on the bench. So, as you have seen, new points have been included: - The request of the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; - The request of MP Adem Huskić for the examination of the Bill on the Completion of the Law on the Official Journal is also made by a shortened or shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126; - Confirmation of the Decision of the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers of BiH on the replacement of the BiH Security Minister and Deputy Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tarik Sadović; - The appointment of the President, Vice-President and members of the Independent Committee and the Committee of Appeals of the Citizens as independent bodies of the police structure of BiH; Therefore, it is a proposal from the Ad hoc Joint Commission for the implementation of the procedure of appointments. 2 Point 8 of the agenda compared to earlier has been reformed, because in the meantime we have received a negative opinion from the Constitutional Commission on the principles of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law, whose proposal is the Commission for Gender Equality. And as you might have noticed, item 13 of the agenda proposal has been removed, so from... the earlier draft agenda: 'The consideration of the document How to make BiH more attractive for foreign investment', because the committee in charge addressed the extended college and requested the addition of this document. So I'm opening a debate on today's 58th session. I have Denis Bećirović reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28009	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, media representatives, members of the Council of Ministers, on the basis of article 65 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club in the House of Representatives, we submit a proposal to supplement the agenda of the 58th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. We suggest that the following point be included in the agenda: - Considering the security situation in Tuzla Canton and Tuzla, with particular reference to the conclusions of the extraordinary session of the Tuzla Municipal Council, which I remind also were delivered 7. This year's 7th and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In the light of why, as the SDP MPs' Club, we propose to put this on the agenda today, we deliver complete material with conclusions from the Tuzla Municipal Council session that was in an emergency situation in Tuzla and Tuzla Canton. So, we deliver complete conclusions and draw attention to the fact that only the Tuzla Municipal Council has asked the competent judicial authorities to consider the possibility to take priority cases where multiple returnees are suspected of crime, therefore the perpetrators of three and more criminal acts, etc. The Tuzla Municipal Council also calls on the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Security Agency to engage in the process of criminally active persons acting within organised criminal groups. As a club of MPs, we also deliver material from the Advisory Committee on Security, which we also contribute as a material for this debate. We want to find out here that the issue of security is not, when it comes to the Constitution, in the jurisdiction of the municipality, specifically in this case, Tuzla. However, the municipal chief, the Municipal Council and the citizens of Tuzla as well as, I believe, all well-intentioned people in this country express their concerns against the escalation of violence. So it's about the most human canton, it's about the third city in size, and it's more than certainly not an incident in this country, but it's becoming a phenomenon of which unfortunately they're not immune or other environments in BiH, and we're not taking all these examples now. We would also like to say, before, hopefully, this point enters the agenda today, that for this serious violence on the streets of Tuzla we have therefore established suspicion 3 that it is also a political background. That is why we invite all MPs in the House of Representatives to put this item on the agenda today. We have complete material to discuss and send a message from the top of the state to the lowest authorities that we are ready to deal with the mafia and criminally organized groups in this country. This is what the citizens of BiH expect from us, and it is absolutely certain that we cannot enter Europe, we cannot liberalise the visa regime if we have organised criminal groups that terrorise BiH citizens. So here's why I'm going to use this time, and I suggest on behalf of the MPs' club today that we put this as a special item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28010	Remzija Kadrić, a debate on the agenda, also reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28011	I thank you, Chairman. Regarding the proposal for a point under 21, which reads "Confirmation of the decision of the BiH Council of Chairmans on the replacement of the BiH Security Minister and Deputy Chairman-in-Office of the BiH Council of Ministers Tarik Sadović", we have been given some material that I believe is not enough. The only reason for this decision, according to the chairman's decision,... reads as follows: 'Democratic Action Party (SDA) addressed the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers with an initiative to replace Tarik Sadović from the post of BiH security minister and deputy chairman. The text of the letter sets out the reasons for the change, and this decision is proposed to the initiative mentioned accordingly." So, according to Article 62. The Rules of Procedure shall provide the relevant material. I find this material insufficient. ... If there is this letter of the SDA or any other material related to this point, I ask that this be delivered to us during the session, so that we may conduct appropriate discussions. For these reasons, I also note that this is insufficient and ask for additional material, if any, to be delivered during the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28012	Thank you. I didn't understand, do you have a suggestion to take off or not take off the dot or ask for a material supplement? I hope the people of the Council of Ministers have heard or co-operated that they will pass it on to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. So, I don't have any further applications to discuss the agenda. We are left with a statement on the proposal of MP Denis Bećirović on behalf of the SDP Club. You heard the explanation. Here, at this point, the draft agenda points are distributed, but here, I can interpret it, if you'll allow it, Mr. Bećirović. So, the request is to discuss the security and security situation in Canton, Tuzla Canton,... Tuzli, excuse me, and based on the materials that were previously directed, July 7th was directed towards the Assembly, and the materials that Mr Bećirović here, here, has now put into 4 distributions. I hope that we understand what this is all about and that you are ready to make a statement about this proposal for inclusion in the agenda. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! So we're voting on a proposal to include it in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28013	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28014	And neither does mine, Jozo, here, but here, we'll do it again, we'll do it again. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I don't have a comment, do you have these files on you? Please prepare for the vote, we vote mechanically. Who Is For? I'm asking the service to count, a little patience please. Does anyone count? Just a little patience. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28019	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28020	That'll be the 23rd point of the agenda. Here, good news, it worked, Jozo. If you allow me to now establish the agenda of today's 58th session. Please, please don't take me for a walk during the session and do other jobs. Young man, please don't give me any more walks around the bench here, between the lines. So the agenda of the 58th session is next 1. Approval of the minutes of the 57th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New Parliament issues; 3. A request from the party for Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 4. The request of MP Jerka Ivanković Lijanović to consider the draft law amending the Excise Act in BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 6. MP Adem Huskić's request to consider the draft law supplementing the BiH Official Journal Act following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Road Safety in BiH – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics (second reading); 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers (second reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sport in BiH – Proposed by MP Denis Bećirović (second reading); 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission - Proposer of the Commission for Gender Equality (first reading); 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Freedom of Information in BiH – MPs Sefer Halilović, Vinko Zorić, Mirko 6 Okolić, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Denis Bećirović, Velimir Jukić and Adem Huskić (first reading); 12. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the National Anthem of BiH (first reading); 13. Report from the Commission from the College on Ekrem Ajanović, Adem Huskić and Remzija Kadrić (first reading); 14. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Sadik Ahmetović's initiative to include in the agenda of the House of Representatives' House of Representatives' meeting on 11 July On the Day of Remembrance throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina on victims of genocide committed in Srebrenica in 1995; 15. Consideration of the Gender Action Plan of the Council of Ministers and recommendations of the UN Committee for the Elimination of Women's Discrimination, with the Commission's Opinion on Gender Equality; 16. The Ombudsmen's Special Report on Human Rights of BiH on Women's Appeals on the right to pay during maternity leave; 17. Information on the lack of freedom in the Republic of Croatia Vjekoslav Vuković, assistant minister of security, and activities undertaken after the event; 18. Appointment of members of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications (the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH); 19. The appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of the BiH Police Structure (it is a proposal from the Ad hoc Joint Commission to conduct the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals); 20. Confirming the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to replace the BiH Security Minister and BiH Deputy Chairman Tarik Sadović; 21. Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 22. Consider "The Conclusions on the Harm of Anti-Dejton and Single Action of the President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadić in the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina" – Proposed by MP Denis Bećirović; 23. Consideration of a security and security situation in the Tuzla municipality; 24. The adoption of an agreement on ratification (a) the Agreement establishing a Regional School for Public Administration (ReSPA), (b) the Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, (c) the Convention on the Assessment of Environmental Impacts in the Transboundary Context – Espoo (Finland), 25 February 1991, (e) the Convention on the Prevention of Major Industrial Accidents, No. 174 of 1993, and Recommendations on the Prevention of Major Industrial Accidents, No. 181 of 1993, International Labour Organisation, (e) Recommendations on the Opening of Jobs in Small and Medium Enterprises, No. 189 of 1998, International Labour Organisation, f) Recommendations on the Promotion of Cooperatives, No. 193 from 2002, International Labour Organisation, 7 g) Recommendations relating to the List of Professional Diseases, No.194 from 2002, International Labour Organisation of Work, H. So this is the agenda of today's 58th session. Let's take it in a row. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 57th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28024	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please one thing, just business intervention, if possible. We thank you for putting this item on the agenda. We know that the Council of Ministers is not required by the Rules of Procedure to prepare itself. We also gave the material, I know that today we are in a delicate situation under point 20, is it, as they say, if Bog is, we are changing man, and at point 24, we have information, but I would ask you that the Council of Ministers has in mind that under 24 we will discuss this, that both they prepare and manifest themselves on this material for efficiency in work. Nothing else, so it wouldn't be after the point of the 24th business outsmart and they didn't have an obligation. So, it's just a request, a business intervention that the Council of Ministers and the competent minister, Mr Nović, or whoever it is, or deputy, does not matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28025	The Nović used to be. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28026	I don't know, so I'm sure he knows a lot about it. So, on item 24 next to our material, we have one quality indication, we have a Deputy Minister of Security...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28027	Here's the minister and the deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28028	Yeah, well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28029	Here, you heard the intervention. So back to comments on the answers received. Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28030	Thank you. My fellow Members, members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I warmly welcome you all. I received an answer to my question from the Ministry of Transport and Communications regarding the transportation of the UN-Sancanton with other parts of BiH in the context of the implementation of the Corridor Vc project. I received a partial answer showing that the UN-San canton was not planned in the Federation of BiH projects and plans. It is planned only to the Jajc and Travnik path of Lašva, and what is the basic of Bihac, the ‘AVNOJ road’ – there is no such thing, it is our biggest problem ‘AVNOJ road’, so here you can see it is not there. I believe that future state minister in talks with entity ministers should make sure that the Unsko-San canton, however, here says the Bihac highway with Croatia, I know it, the 12 km, it is nothing to us, it means it sends us messages: go to Croatia, you are not welcome to Sarajevo, come there. I want us from Bihaæ, ‘The path of AVNOJ to Mrkonjic, that we have it, and that... the road does not cost much, there is nothing, property means relations are all solved, it just needs to be changed a little bit and to travel normally. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28031	Remzija Kadrić, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28032	I thank you, Chairman. To my question,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28033	Please listen to me for a minute, please. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28034	on my question ‘in which all cases BiH's Attorney General has stood up for the protection of the right to integrity and the legal continuity of the property of the BiH state’, I have received an answer to that question. I am pleased with that answer, but I am not satisfied with the activities that the Ombudsman is doing, although in the final sentence, he says "that the Ombudsman will take legal action in the future if he finds that some property owned by the SRBiH, now BiH, and held by third parties, will take legal action to return the same BiH, and all in accordance with the positive regulations". So, they're going to work you out. However, I am therefore asking the pravobranilaštvo to do these things even more actively to protect BiH's property in one way as provided for by the Constitution and the positive regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28035	Commentary, Sefer Halilović. Is it a mistake? Wrong. Šefik Džaferović, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28036	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28037	Go ahead, go ahead, go ahead. When you insist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28038	Okay, I'm sorry. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, so I realized that you are done with this item of this agenda and that the next point is parliamentary issues. I do, and I believe we all don't have to wait for a written answer to this question. The minister from the Council of Civil Affairs, Mr Sredoje Nović, is present. One of the most important conditions and key conditions for the realisation of the Roadmap for visa-free regime is the biometric passport. I ask the question and want an immediate answer at this session today, if possible immediately: ‘ How long has it been since the realization of biometric passports in BiH? And, is there, with the increased efforts of all of us in BiH, the possibility that BiH may start issuing biometric passports as early as October or early as October, before the EU Monitoring Team arrives?’ If this is possible and if we do so, I think, and of course, if we meet all other obligations during August and September of the month, then not all chances of BiH being in a visa-free regime with Serbia, Montenegro and Macedonia would be lost. That is why I find it extremely important that immediately today, after this question, the honourable Minister Nović answer this question. That's it, thank you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28039	So we've got two things, so we've got more reports. Mr. Nović is here as usual and has already given me a signal that he is ready to speak, but let's listen to the other questions. And the other ministers are here, so after we've asked questions, we'll call the ministers if they're ready to give the answer on the spot. We're going in a row now. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28040	I have one parliamentary question. I remind you that I asked the same question at the 52nd session of the House of Representatives. Today is the 58th session. In business, unfortunately, I didn't get an answer, so I was forced to ask the question again today and restore it. The question again is: ‘ How is it possible for the Director-General and two Deputy Director-General of the Civil Aviation Directorate of BiH to perform these functions today, or what legal actions have been taken in this regard, because their mandate expired only three years ago? I am delivering an explanation of this issue together with the question, so here, for the second time in the last six sessions, I am renewing this parliamentary question. This time with hope I will really get an answer according to the deadline provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28041	Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28042	Thank you. I have two questions. The first question is for OSA and SIPA: ‘Did you have information and what you did about the Chetnik Orgie of the Ravnog Chetnik Movement on the streets of Srebrenica, just the day after the Genoa in Potocari, where 534 new victims of genocide have been buried?’ As a state MP, I ask you to show in action that you are able to implement the laws of this country and protect the remaining survivors and victims of genocide throughout BiH. I cannot accept that in the 21st century, the entire domestic and world public eyes of the Chetnik orgy takes place in Srebrenica and Bratunac where members of the Ravnogorje Chetnik Movement are removing BiH's national flag from the Bratunac municipality and shouting "Parola" This is Serbia. And you, as the National Intelligence Service, are blindly watching and doing nothing. Also, I am surprised by the mild reaction of the international community to this Chetnic orgy, because other than the US Embassy, the rest of the world is here silent, not responding at all, let alone sanctioning this fascist behaviour of the ravnogorac. I am surprised that the EU has not condemned these fascist incidents, because they happen at a time when we remember the crimes of genocide in Srebrenica and across Europe we honor the victims of genocide. 11 I support the signing of the Petition on the ban on the work of the Ravnogorje Chetnik Movement in BiH, and the return to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law on the Prohibition of Fascist Organisations and the use of fascist symbols. And I think, despite the fact that there is no law, the state institutions should and must react when the national flag is removed and I think it's their job. The second question is the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘What are you planning to do in the next period to include BiH on the White Schengen List and to set up a visa-free regime with the EU countries in the package with other Western Balkan countries?’ the European Commission's decision to abolish visas from Macedonia, Serbia-Montenegro, but not BiH, has sparked harsh reactions, both domestic and international. A petition of citizens is being signed throughout BiH, reactions in international circles have been numbered, especially harsh reactions in Austrian and German media. A German politician, a former OHR High Representative in BiH, Švarc-Šiling criticises the EU's decisions to lift visas to Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, and argues that this decision rewards Srebrenica's murderers for genocide. He also said that thanks to Serbia's aggression, Europe's largest genocide has occurred after World War II, and that, precisely when the European Parliament reminds itself of the 14th anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide, the European Commission has announced a decision that Srbin will be able to travel freely without visas to EU countries and BiH citizens do not, and points out that it is a mockery but also a moral blow to all European values. I have nothing against neighbours, let them go, but I don't think Serbia has earned it since it has not met the conditions as well as BiH. As a State MP and Bošnjak, I will be open, concrete, direct. When it comes to the decision on the visa regime for the Western Balkan countries, it is, in my opinion, discriminatory, because it affects Bošnjak the most, since other peoples in BiH have the right to dual citizenship. This is about double EU standards for Bošnjak. I think the Bošnjak as a peaceful, cultural and civilized people deserve nothing. I wonder if these civilized values of the EU... which the Bošnjak believed and swore to. In my view, this EU decision, apart from being discriminatory, is anti-Bosnian and anti-Bosnian, and its ultimate goal is, I say, the creation of a Bosnian ghetto in Europe as a model for Gaza in Palestine. This decision sends a clear message to the Bošnjak that they are not welcome in the European house, although it is known that the Bošnjak through history have never attacked anyone before, have not committed crimes...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28043	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28044	Here, for a short time, unlike Serbia, which has today given refuge to a war criminal such as Ratko Mladić and the Montenegrin Chetniks. The decision... sends a dangerous political message. I mean, it looks like the Bošnjak are Musliman' fault that they survived the genocide and that they're alive. And, from the Council of Ministers and Foreign Ministers, I ask all of us, the legislative authorities for maximum commitment to... diplomatic offensive, if no one is to go on vacation 12 to correct this unfair decision and that BiH in a package with other Western Balkan countries at the same time establish a visa-free regime with EU countries. I mean, it's the least we can do for the citizens of BiH. We should bring them freedom instead of isolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28045	Mehmed Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28046	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, my question was addressed to the Council of Ministers, and it reads: "What is the fate of the conclusions of the 47th session of the House of Representatives, held on 4 March 2009, and regarding the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Customs Tariff Act of BiH?" One brief explanation. At the 47th session, held on 4 March 2009, the House of Representatives adopted the Proposal for a Law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act in the second reading, together with the Conclusion, which reads: 'It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver, within 15 days, the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Tariff Act according to the needs of bh. the economy.' One brief reminder. This is about a law where only sugar is treated. In a magical way, the law entered the parliamentary procedure at the end of last year. There have been a lot of discussions, a lot of negligent comments, especially from the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers concerning this law, which has also received the approval of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board under the urgent procedure. The law was finally, after the procedure was carried out, adopted, with the conclusion that I have stated here. However, it was in March, and from that conclusion to this day there is nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28047	Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28048	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to refer the matter to the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury and the Directorate for Direct Taxation. The question is: 'How much public revenue has been collected in the Single Account based on VAT, excise and customs duties and how much compared to the plan for a period of 1. 1. 2009 to 30. Six. In 2009? I ask that evaluations be made of the reasons for the reduction in the collection of public revenues based on VAT, excise duties and customs duties. Is there a programme for more efficient work of the Directorate for indirect taxation that is implemented in 2009? If there is one, please provide with a program for more efficient work of the Directorate for indirect taxation." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28049	Šemsudin Mehmedović. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28050	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a quick question. I'm not going to read the explanation. I'm going to put it in writing. I ask the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Transport and Communications: 'What regulations have the decisions of the Post Traffic Agency on the level of costs for issuing the licence been made?' Namely, certain couriers’ houses, or operators, were forced this year under the law to submit a licence application, although they did not receive any reply or clarification to specific questions, how much a licence will be issued, how much the costs of licensing are, etc. (The May 2009 Rules of Procedure and the April 2009 Decision)) and in respect of the level of costs for processing the application of 3,000 KM, i.e. an annual licence fee of 10,000 KM. On the basis of what legal provisions are certain levels of these costs? Here, in writing, I'm also offering an explanation for this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28051	Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28052	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, fellow MPs, respected ministers, my question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and it reads, "Is it, if so, when the planned formation of the Bratunac customs station?" Namely, by decision of the BiH Ministry of Security – I thank the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security which responded to my questions last year on the opening of the Malian crossing of Bratunac and Skelani – these border crossings for goods traffic were opened but without a formed customs station at one of these crossings, so that even the opening of these border crossings has no effect, because the nearest customs station in Zvornik is 100 km away from Skelano and 50 km from Bratunac. It creates great difficulties for goods transporters. To get the goods out of Skelan in Bajina Basta in Serbia, only 1 km away, the goods truck must go to Zvornik, in one direction over 100 km and return to Skelane. Until the reform of customs services in BiH in Bratunc there was a customs station, but then it was abolished, while some of them may be less needed, such as, for example, now do not specify them in which places, such as Sokolac, Teshanj etc., are far from each other in a significantly smaller distance than this example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28053	Rifat Dolić. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28054	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have today one parliamentary initiative, which is an initiative to the financial police in the Federation of BiH and RS to control the business and control the legality of the work of microcredit organisations in BiH and to take measures for the application of interest rates and to foster the negative consequences of the financial crisis and recession in BiH. The difficulties in repaying loans are one of the negative consequences of the financial crisis and recession that is experiencing geometric progress in relation to the trend of the crisis and recession. When it comes to these difficulties, public criticism over behaviour has been the banking sector and individual banks in BiH, often left out microcredit organisations most often on the scene when a citizen or firm is trying to extract loans from microcredit organisations, with interest most often over 20% a year. I was encouraged to submit this initiative by the knowledge that in BiH more than 400,000 citizens and businesses today are using these loans and that a growing number of them are experiencing systemic failure and not rare news and information about suicides, whose background is desperate because of the inability to repay these loans with interest rates. There is no doubt that, with the growing number of tragic consequences of this situation, there will be an organized rebellion against the interest-bearing behaviour of microcredit organisations, which are currently skillfully delaying the reprogramming of credit payments, which is just another new trap for those who are trying to sort out the difficulties in paying off credit. Legalists would say that the work of microcredit organisations is regulated by laws, and that the level of the agreed interest is the issue of the capital market, but the extent of this problem and its consequences must be the alarm for those who are responsible for making an urgent move towards a more rational arrangement of this issue, as the consequences will become increasingly difficult and more expensive. One of my colleagues recently initiated this problem, but I think it's been a little over the top and this question deserves a far more serious approach. I think this initiative is a way to first quickly take into account the gravity and seriousness of the problem, then to have financial police report on the identified situation and then to take steps in amortising and resolving this serious problem by the competent entity and state institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28055	Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28056	I thank you, Chairman. I refer the question to the government of the Federation of BiH, which reads: 'Who founded the Trade Society "Riva Trpanj", a limited liability society, and what is its basic activity?' In this regard, the second sub-question: 15 'Why is the management of the Corporate and Bank Passive Sub-silence Management Directorate not appointed for the purpose of implementing the Annex G Agreement on the Ex-SFRJ Sucession?'
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28057	Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28058	Thank you. I have three questions; two are for the Council of Ministers. The first is: 'Is the Elektrotronos BiH company normally functioning in accordance with the law?' Secondly: 'Who and why is contesting the implemented reform of the power sector in BiH and thus challenging the implementation of the international obligations that BiH has undertaken?' Just a brief explanation is that there is an attitude and a PIC on the situation in Elektroprenos, so the PIC also dealt with the issue in its 30th communique. The 6th voiced its position, and it is illogical not to discuss the issue in this place. I think it's a very important question and I won't comment again. So, I have one question for CEC and SIPA, and it says: "Is the Central Election Commission running the property records of the municipality's chiefs and state officials employed in tax control bodies, or taxpayers, and whether SIPA is following the way of gaining wealth above those categories of citizens?" I think this question is very important, and so far it has not been asked, and it is being imposed as a problem in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28059	Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28060	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and I ask the Council of Ministers to answer: 'Is an expert working group formed after the conclusion of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, which was at our home on 3 December 2008, asking the BiH Council of Ministers to establish a working group in which experts from the field of public broadcasting would be tasked with assessing the compliance of the Law on the Public TV System of BiH and the Law on Public TV Service of BiH with the Constitution of BiH and European standards in this area, and on this basis a proposal for possible amendments and addition of this law is being drawn up. If this task force is not formed, the proposal is for it to be formed immediately and to respond to this task. In that case, if it is to be formed, then we don't need to explain why they haven't formed yet." 16 I would like to remind you of another conclusion that is in line with this and with the same session of our home, which was adopted after and at the House of Peoples, in which it insists that members of the Management Board, other than the Law on the Public TV System of BiH and the Law on the Public TV Service of BiH, apply directly the provisions of the Constitution of BiH, international human rights contracts which form part of the Constitution of BiH, international law, recommendations number: R 96/10 The Committee of Ministers of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which guarantees the independence of public broadcasters, which is adopted 11. Nine. In 1996, with legal force above domestic legislation, as well as other soft law international law, in accordance with Article 11(2) of the Law on Public TV Service of BiH. I don't want to remind you that there's been an adoption of these conclusions. From this you can see that there are indications, serious indications that some of the provisions in the law are not in line with quoted European recommendations. If this group is not formed, then I would also suggest that one representative of the BiH Parliament, the Federation Parliament and Parliament from the National Assembly of the RS be included in the group for the following reasons. Meanwhile, the adoption of the Law on Federal TV, as you know, has resulted in legal conditions, i.e. assumptions for further reform steps in the area of the Public TV system. However, this law contains, here I have found and done here one analysis, five divergent and asymmetric solutions compared to these other two laws, means this law on BHTV and RTRS. Not getting into that maybe some of these solutions in this federal law are better than they are here, but in order to access corporate formation, the laws need to be harmonised. So my proposal is then to expand this expert group, here, with at least one representative from all three parliaments, who will take this solution into analysis and suggest how they should be brought in to be symmetric, so to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28061	Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28062	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, I have one parliamentary initiative and one question. The initiative is the House of Representatives: to set up an investigative commission with the task of verifying allegations about the distribution of CEMT permits in the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The vast number of people involved in this activity expressed great protests over this situation. People are at risk of existence, and an entire business branch has come into great difficulty because of these allegations that, if they are correct, create major problems for people. During the distribution of CEMT licences for this year, huge losses were made that led to a chaotic situation on the market for international truck transport. The distribution was carried out by a commission formed by the Minister for Communications and Transport of the Council of Ministers of BiH. The Commission established and published the criteria for the distribution of CEMT licences for 2009, which, when they decided not to comply with them in this commission, the Regulation defined: the entity method of distribution, one third of the RS licenses, two thirds of the Federation, two members of the commission, one and 17 of which the president withdrew. The minister appointed a new president and the commission continued without a representative of the Serb people. RS carriers reacted to this by organising warning protests by exiting vehicles to the streets of RS. The peaceful driving drew the attention of the entire BiH and the public to the endangered position and the inadmissible way of distribution. In addition, an analysis of the list has seen many irregularities in the work of this commission to the detriment of all BiH carriers. During the allocation, this commission did not consistently apply the harmonised criteria. The Commission did not apply a harmonised number of points to all carriers which the carrier had to have in order to obtain a certain licence. The Commission granted EURO 4 licences valid for Italy and that the carrier does not have any EURO 4 vehicles and, of course, that this licence is not applicable. The allocation of licences does not correspond closely to the final allocation list, and there are cases that carriers have paid the licence but have never received it, although the distribution permit leads to them on the list. They are seeking back the money paid which they did not receive or are known to whom their authorisation was granted; that the carriers did not raise a licence with the promise of individual members of the commission to make a replacement, so that they were left without the money and permission paid and there was no information to which the other carrier was granted his licence, but the distribution list does not lead to it; that on the carrier was kept a licence which he had not received; that the carrier was granted a licence which he did not ask for, while one carrier was denied the authorisation of the same type he requested. The Commission replaced the authorisations among carriers according to its personal opinion, instructions, without applying existing rules. The benchmarks and the number of licences received between individual carriers points to the fact that this Commission did not apply the criteria. For example. An 18-point carrier gets five licenses, and a 15-point carrier gets eight licenses, etc. The Commission did not resolve the same complaint in line with the complaint, but rather granted ordinary authorisations which the carrier did not ask for at all, and a large number of legitimate objections were not resolved in this way at all. There are reasonable doubts that the actual distribution does not correspond to the published one. On several occasions, carriers indicated the abuse of reserve CEMT permits. Reports to the International Transport Forum in Paris on the use of CEMT licences are being sent regularly, which could lead to a reduction in the basic quota for BiH with severe consequences for BiH carriers. Because of all this, I suggest that the House of Representatives form an investigative committee tasked with verifying these allegations, as well as other possible irregularities and reporting to the House. And my parliamentary question was addressed to the College of the House of Representatives: 'Will the idea be accepted to be placed on the plateau of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to win the Nobel Prize from BiH?' How much we know that this idea exists and that it would be one of the solutions with which everyone is agreed to be acceptable because of all the guests who come to this parliament and for the people the whole world knows about BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28063	Salko Sokolović. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28064	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow MPs, I intend to repeat the question from the 55th session concerning Mr. Vahid Alagić's status. I asked the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I didn't get the answer. And, uh, just one more sentence that I said back then. So the prosecutor in the previous procedure completed his activity half a year ago. That's somewhere in the D.A.'s office, and I'm saying, I repeat that question, there's probably a text of that question in the service, and I'm asking that it be forwarded back to the D.A.'s office. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28065	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28066	I thank you, Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I want to take the opportunity to ask one parliamentary question today, which is the result of talks with the mayors of municipalities in my constituency, more specifically in Livn, the municipalities of Glamoch and Bosnia Grahovo, where there is a significant return of the population down there and they are looking for funds to restore and maintain this return to something concerning the restoration, something concerning this very opening of business and maintaining the business. In that sense, I am asking the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to provide me with information on the plan and spending of funds to return, as well as the criteria under which the funds were granted in 2009, including funds from the Fund, means those that are associated with the entity and the resources of the State Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28067	I'm moving Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28068	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, I ask the Board of Directors of the Clinical Centre of Sarajevo, but without any explanation, and the question is, "How are the directors of discipline chosen in the Clinical Centre of Sarajevo and how is it regulated by the Statute of the Clinical Centre in Sarajevo?" I'm looking for an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28069	Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28070	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, I have one question. I refer it to the BiH Council of Ministers and all law enforcement agencies: the SIPA 19 OSAs, entity, cantonal and county MUPs and competent prosecutors. And here, I deliberately left out the Department of indirect taxation and the entity administration of tax administrations. 'What are they doing and what are they doing in suppressing the increasingly frequent occurrences of closing or shutting down, stopping the work of certain companies and establishing new ones that continue to do the same work in the same rooms, with the same employees and actually just changed their name?' In fact, this phenomenon has taken so long from us that it is actually very difficult to find a business in BiH over half a year old. Most of them are younger than half a year old. Why? Because after a certain time, you have to file accounts, draw a line, and then you have to pay by, you know who, the state, and that's where I think about everything the state does to the state, the various funds, the users, and so on. I think there's very little work on this, and this is one area that is very, very interesting and I'm curious about how competent can be tolerant of this phenomenon. Everywhere in the world, I think of this developed part of the world to which we are seeking, in which we look and want to be one day, the sooner, members of that community, the more I think of the EU, the more important they give to this phenomenon, because they prevent unfair competition, prevent tax evasion and generally illegal work. And with us, the most normal thing is that this is happening, and it's not suspicious, very interesting to anyone. In particular, it is not suspicious of tax administrations, tax establishments of these administrations, etc. And neither the police, nor the prosecutions, nor the OSAs, the SIPAs, etc. I call on the Council of Ministers to gather all relevant information on this issue and to inform our public about what this is all about. I think, until we start doing this, we're not going to make any of those important assumptions about one normal work, loyal competition and, in particular, preventing illegal work and business.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28071	Azra Alajbegović, and I have a still registered Milorad Živković and we conclude, there is Vinko Zorić. Here you go, Azra Alajbegović. Please sign in if you have any intention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28072	Dear Chairman, colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I ask that a report be submitted to me on the work of the Higher Education Development Agency so far, as well as a report on the work of the Interrectorial Conference so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28073	Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28074	Thank you. My question is to the Council of Ministers, and it says, "Why did BHT decide to ban just one word in its programme?" 20 Reason: BHT banned the use of the words county and decided not to broadcast the attachments in which the word was mentioned. Why hasn't she decided to ban all words that are not in the languages of the people of BiH? Maybe it doesn't have anything to do with the national. Namely, I asked here why Germany's football champion is more monitored than BiH champions, so I never got an answer to that question. And it seems to me that this is in the final stage, so to suppress everything that is Croatian in BiH. I feel it on all the committees in this parliament and wherever I move around this BiH. And I hear from the relevant international representatives that there is no BiH without all three peoples, but they have no note of BiH without the Croatian people! So why is it noted if this people are not at risk? I have not heard a statement from international representatives of BiH without the Bosniak people, there is no BiH without the Serb people, but we often hear from officials there is no BiH without the Croatian people. Obviously, there's something wrong with that. So, I won't write this argument, because... the deaf aren't worth whispering to, and the blind are not worth writing to. So my question is focused on that one ban. However, about BHT, Croatian representatives said a lot in all parliaments, but here they decided on, so I don't know if it's enough to say, the Stalinist way of banning contributions where one word is mentioned.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28075	And, we have Milorad Živković and we are concluding parliamentary questions for today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28076	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28077	There's no replica, Mr. Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28078	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, two very short questions. The issue addressed to the BiH Prosecutor's Office: "Is the BiH Prosecutor's College under review and possibly decided that all warrants from the RS Prosecutor's Office, I assume, are they related to those who treat war crimes, must be reviewed and approved solely in the BiH Prosecutor's Office?" Another question that is not directly related to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, however, is the only address that I, as an MP at the House of Representatives, can address, although it is subjective, because I have promised the Association of Babies in BiH to ask a question, as it concerns: 'Is the Ministry of Civil Affairs available information: have legal or sublegal acts on the rights and obligations of midwives been prepared in entity ministries, since they cannot be brought to BiH level?' In 2008 the Council of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Law on Primacy, which determines the content and manner of the functioning of the standards of education, the conditions for the exercise of the activity and the duties of quality control and professional supervision of the work of midwives, and in its explanation, the Proposer of the Ministry of Health and 21 Social Protection of the Republic of Croatia asked for the implementation of procedures under emergency procedure, as it is about the harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU regulations. If Croatia could have done so and if this is the job that we will have to do, why not do it now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28079	Here, in the extensions of Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28080	I'm sorry. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, three MPs from the Republic of Serbia lived in Bratunc on 12 July and directly fueled international hatred in the eastern BiH area, contributing to or contributing to the destabilising of overall relations in the area. And my question concerns the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; 'What has been done and has it sent any protest, the note to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28081	Here, we're finally closing parliamentary questions. Let's go to point 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28082	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28083	I apologize, so Mr. Nović is ready to answer Mr. Džaferović's question.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28084	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I am, of course, sorry, as many others, that BiH has not yet received a visa-free regime, but at the same time I want to say that, no matter how it sounds, unfortunately, until 2007, BiH has done nothing to prepare for the issue of biometric passports. So we entered a phase when certain shifts were to be made forward and even before official conditions were laid that BiH needed biometric passports. The reminders for both you and the public, I must say that the CIPS was formed only by the 2002 Council of Ministers Decision and which then had 16 employees and 108 under the Treaty of Action. These were workers who worked on the most subtle issues of issuing documents in BiH. We knew it couldn't be long and then we entered into the preparation and amendment of the Regulation on Organisation and Systematization of the CIPS 22 Implementation Directorate, so May 2007. At the same time, a proposal for a law on the Agency for Identification Document which completely changed the meaning that only the CIPS was originally formed, so we formed it in July 2008. In order to enter the process of issuing biometric passports, preparing only for publication, I would like to remind you once again that we had an obligation in the meantime, and you are witnesses, because in the parliamentary procedure you adopted the Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, then the Law on the Completion of the Law on Single Parent Number, then the Law on residence and residence of citizens of BiH, then the Law on the ID card and, ultimately, the Law on the Agency for Identification Documents, Recording and Data Exchange. Without these laws, it was not possible to enter into any activity in preparation for the production, or issue of biometric passports. But it's just reminders for the sake of it, and everything would be pathetic if we were looking for the culprit now. I don't think that's good. But what's the situation now, I think we all need to be interested. BiH, after all the activities it has carried out in the past year since the adoption of all the laws, has therefore carried out tender procedures, both for software in technical terms for the production of biometric passports, i.e. for the personalisation of biometric passports, and for tenders for obtaining the very booklet with all the safety elements and chips that have been developed in a special act, i.e. the regulation. On the first of July of this year – as well as our project, which we proposed to the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers adopted the project – began issuing travel documents with all elements of biometric passports. So, today's passports, as of July 1st, all BiH citizens, who receive, receive absolutely all security elements as if it were a biometric passport. These passports will and are officially confirmed by the European Commission and will be valid until the end, meaning full five years, how important they are, because they are issued according to the principles of biometrics as planned. What's what we did extra? It's to talk intensively and talk to the Bundess Drukera as a supplier who's in charge of delivering biometric passports themselves. So last week, we had five biometric passports with all the elements of biometrics presented to the public of BiH and beyond, and on July 31st 200 passports arrive in the process of testing whether all the technical conditions, the machines that are installed, corresponds to all the elements of each page and every safety chip that is installed in that element, will be able to withstand all the testing that is necessary. In addition, 100 biometric passports are sent to an independent laboratory abroad on August 1st, which will be mandatory, regardless of the suppliers, regardless of the order, to show whether the biometric passport, which will be used by BiH, is indeed chemical, etc. corresponds to what is provided for in the contract and what is provided for such passports in European standards. This implies that in mid-August, we expect all tests to be completed and that a passport will finally be printed, which, if some small elements are removed, will be removed. Regardless of that, we have reached an agreement with the bundesdrukeraj these days that was signed: on 15 October BiH will receive one larger amount of biometric passports that would start the issue, so in BiH. It is some deadline that we consider to be almost ideal, optimal deadline, although, never by our demands of the end, we have asked for at least 500 or 1,000 passports to be delivered to us, if they can make the first production they make, so that we may be able to start the formal procedure of issuing biometric passports sooner. Until then, all the necessary activities on the ground are being conducted to ensure that all parent offices address the shortcomings, connect along with municipalities where there are still little difficulties that arise on the ground in this regard and we firmly believe that all the shortcomings and problems that arise, as well as in any country that occurred when these travel documents were issued. 23 Why is the delay in issuing travel documents now? It's simple, which is completely the second procedure for issuing passports. There is no longer the technical way that we have issued travel documents and checked, no longer matters whether someone has brought or is not a copy of the birth certificate, a copy of the citizenship, today the citizen comes with an identification document, and the official by official duty electronically checks whether the application concerned was actually born in that and that local community, in that place, whether the citizen of BiH, under which it is run by number and thus is an absolute guarantee. What is additionally crucial is that in all places for the issue of biometric passports there are extremely strict security criteria for the areas where citizens come and ask for the issue of these documents. We will not give in to any pressures to endanger the safety of these travel documents at any cost. Legally, it's up to 30 days to betray passports but we usually always think it's a kilo of salt: to come to the store to buy and get out! When it's crowded, it's waiting on the salt. So, we need to get used to all the blogging of our travel documents, changing our identification documents in time. At the same time as July 1st, I would like to inform you that our former CIPS identity cards will be issued in the same way as the biometric passport. Prints are taken and for the first time a complete base is created now, which will be checked when taking the elements for issuing a travel document, or ID card. So, so far, BiH had no software to check if anyone already had such an ID card, but had to walk on foot. So what else can we do: ask the entities, the competent ministries of the Federation, the RS, the cantons, the mayors of the municipalities to engage, especially when it comes to home offices where we don't have the authority of the original so that we can directly intervene on the ground, but to establish additional control and eliminate those shortcomings that are. Here, I am truly optimistic that those with whom we spoke these documents will deliver at the latest on October 15th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28085	Here, you heard the answer. Of course, you have the right to comment. Here you go. I see, there's been reports that this is turning into a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28086	So, very briefly, I'm not going to discuss it in the Rules of Procedure at all. The purpose of my question was to get the answer so that BiH, before the monitoring team arrived, has a point in its report, which says that a biometric passport was started in BiH. I got that answer, thank you, Minister. This will be very important through further evaluations by the European Commission on the visa regime for BiH on 1 January of next year. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28087	Okay. In this way we conclude the point of Parliament's questions, and let me remind you, in two days we have a session, there will certainly be this. But here we go to point 3. Ad. 3. A request from the party for Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure We received a request and a bill on July 8th. I'm opening a debate on this request for procedure. Here's an application on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28089	Thank you. I'll make a quick introduction. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Receipts in BiH institutions differs from the existing law on the grounds that MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly are returning to the law. It was, as you know, when the Law on Salaries was passed, MPs were originally planned to be in law and then later, when it was seen here in Parliament that it could not pass, then MPs were left out and the Administrative Commission decided... The reasons for this bill are multiple. You know that BiH is alarmed by the global economic crisis. It is necessary to adopt austerity measures at all levels, especially on the remuneration of employees who do not really show employment outside of regular working hours and... spend budgets. Also, the reasons for the adoption of the law, I have already said amendments and additions to the Law on Salary and Compensation in BiH institutions, stem from a solution so far which is paid and the fees of MPs and delegates are regulated by the decision of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs, not giving adequate results, given the frequent changes and additions of this decision directly reflected in the adopted Budget of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, calling into question its implementation, or the need for its restructuring and search for additional funds from the reserve. So, the Administrative Commission, Malten, has some demands at each of its sessions. It is evident that at the level of all BiH institutions, there is an enormous amount of funding to pay fees for work on boards and supervisory boards and other working bodies, and the fact is that these types of jobs are done during working hours. We're seeing that entities, even, cantons, have reduced the fees on boards and boards. I think that... 25
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28090	Argumentation for procedure mostly.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28091	That's right. I believe that... savings, rationalization and MPs return to the Payments Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28092	A debate on this request for a procedure? Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28093	Thank you. Basically, so we're going to support the procedure, we're going to support the essence of this law in the absence of what this club was targeting, it's a stronger reduction, actually, pay. We were going to get at least 20% of total income cuts, but it somehow managed to avoid on these commissions coming in, etc. So, basically, nothing better than nothing we will support what we have offered today by the Party for BiH Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28094	Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28095	So when it comes to the proposal, or the debate on the procedure, I didn't understand the reasons for the procedure. I didn't get what's urgent here, but I'd like to make two things clear, because we're being unprincipled. We supported the bill of wages, and then we asked that the salaries of the MPs be in that law. The BiH and SDA parties did not accept that at the time. The answer was clear that it was too much pay and that at that moment they could not pass such a law with such high parliamentary salaries. Today I see, if they are not even increased, the salaries of the MPs are the same. Does this mean that these salaries are suitable now and that they're okay, and then they weren't? Do you think that this kind of salary is appropriate in this time of year, and that wasn't when we didn't talk this hard about the crisis and recession? Will the same argument apply to the law on the rights of MPs who also stand on ice? If we're correct and principled, why don't we put all these questions on the table and end up like this in all countries? Why are we acting by double standards? So, the fact is, this is where the salaries of MPs are proposed, which so far have been disputed, now in the same way if not in a larger amount. So that's a fact. So I should remind you that that's when you said that the salaries were too high, before, how long, a year and a few days ago, when we adopted. 26 Now it is: Is this what this is about to be confused by these wages so high, is it a fear of some..., that we should now put such high wages into the law and that we may be protected?? So I understand that you're behind such high wages and that this is okay and that it's a little awkward for our Administrative Commission to do that, because they'll get more power if they're put into the law. And I didn't get an answer to the question of what happened to this other law that you also opposed. Will he come out of some small door, as BiH is the only one in the region without law on the rights and duties of BiH lawmakers? If we have the strength, we have to put all of this on the table in principle and end this all the way, not every time; I think we did it on the road when it comes to the law. It needs to be fixed, but not like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28096	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28097	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28098	Replica, Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28099	... I'll Kalabić you. He knows it as well as I do when it was on the Finance and Budget Committee. We're returning... a session, and no one's saying there's going to be a session. The law will go into procedure. Of course, I'll be for it just like you. I hope these are paying to be MPs in the prime minister's rank. To make these wages even lower...? So no one is for high wages, but the problem is... that every session of the Administrative Commission appears certain demands. And you can't from... it's a question of the functioning of the Parliamentary Assembly. So it should be returned to the law, and about the wages as they go, Malten, every month we're going to have to cut those salaries, colleague Kalabić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28100	Replica, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28101	If I remember correctly, I pointed out at one of the previous sessions that MPs were not part of that law, that was before maybe two or three sessions, here, that now proved, so. But what Mr. Izetbegović said, we will vote for every wage reduction because they are not suitable for this moment in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28102	Husein Nanić, discussion. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28103	I thank you, Chairman. Here, it's me, so we're discussing the need to pass laws by emergency procedure and procedure. What gives me a little bit of a question about this law – certainly, we have as a club our position on this law that we will support it and that we will support the procedure, however, this campaign approach and the explanation, we have here in explaining the adoption of this law two things: the global economic crisis and the work of our Administrative Commission – I really miss the reasoning of this law, so we have a new member, what's new with the old member, what's new with the old one: article 30 that is deleted, article 39 that is deleted, what is deleted? I really miss the quality of the law that I, as an MP, should consciously give my vote on this. Under pressure from the public and the story of the global financial crisis and the need to save, etc. We swallow every story and accept to discuss it. I, in that sense, want to detest the way these laws are delivered and I want to make a point that I would like to hear the Ministry of Finance say about this law, what our Council of Ministers says about this law, does it fit these amendments... We have two laws today by the same name and the same thing. So it's about the same law, about changing two laws. So, two laws on amending the same law. In that sense, so here, I wanted to point out the protest on how this is going to happen, and certainly we have the club's position to support any reduction that will contribute to better work, strengthening, or understanding of this situation in which BiH is located.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28104	Replica, Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28105	Well, here's what my colleague Nanić said about this dilemma where I agree. So it's the same law, and it's not okay that it's not agreed that the same problem is not being discussed within a point. But I don't know or I don't see who's talking about a pay cut here? There's a proposal here that doesn't reduce wages, I'm not even sure when the coefficients are recalculated as they stand. So, don't make a suggestion, there's no pay cut here. No one here has ever stopped anyone from writing a pay cut here. As let us vote, we will not, according to the old custom. Don't do that, I mean, let go of that story, this is available to everyone, there's no pay cut here. Tell me about the amounts. So these amounts are wanted to be confused in the law, but they are. No Niko made an effort to cut them down. Word is somebody else is gonna cut it. He didn't want the promoter to cut, those who support him talking about the reduction, and it's not about the reduction, and they're not offering an amendment on the reduction and they're going to do it themselves. E won't shrink on its own, I mean, to be honest. So here is a kind of hypocrisy that is unacceptable today. Unacceptable. You had the opportunity in the law to set it right, you had the opportunity, what Mr. Nanić said, to bring it together in a complete debate on the issue of the Law on Salaries. And that's avoided, but here some story to sell: it's like a mess, it's a crisis, we're cutting wages, we're not cutting. So it's not true that we're reducing the salary of 28 MPs today, so it's not true. I'm not saying that we can solve another thing for them to be in the law, which the SNSD agrees with, but not in this way and not without a complete solution to the status of the MPs you're running from, and we won't accept that we don't do it in the package when we put it all on. Why would we... solve the partial when we need to do it, and what we're all agreeing on, we need to solve it in a package.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28106	Yeah, you just have to watch all the initiatives in the set. So our initiatives, according to this commission and based on the basics, etc., are in the set. Let's do replicas. Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28107	The replica is Nanić and Kalabić. So, we propose that Article 30, which should now read the basic text of the Law on Salaries, that in Article 30, when it comes to the list of fees, there is under 'i') a fee for working on boards and supervisory boards and other bodies, that the item be abolished. If that were lifted, then we would have saved about a million marks in the name of that item. So we propose, this is what we ask for in Article 30, point (i) to be abolished and thus to contribute to savings and to respond to these austerity measures. These are key questions that MPs today need to make known.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28108	Let's go, second replica, Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28109	Briefly, so are counterparts Nanić and Kalabić. Obviously, they don't understand. These are certainly two different laws. It is precisely this bill that restores the Members of Parliament to law, and in this law the existing Members are in the jurisdiction of the Administrative Commission. It's very important, very important. And here he says 'indemnitys in BiH institutions', now my colleague, Remzi, said that in the boards of directors and supervisory boards cca million marks at the level of a year plus employee fees that do not really require out-of-work engagement. So there's a lot of compensation. Is that, Drago, demagogy and hypocrisy? We'll open it up and we'll see how it goes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28110	Drago Kalabić, second replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28111	I didn't think I'd use two replicas on this one. Let's at least discuss... whether BiH has one pay law. As far as I know, there's a pay law. Who are we telling the story about two laws? And it is possible in one Pay Law that one or 50 amendments may go 29 and did not mind the question of regulating the status of MPs in that law and what the Council of Ministers is asking for. It's the same problem. Don't let us tell people that when it's not true. As if we're not gonna cut the wages, but the esteemed colleague Kadrić says but we'll save on i), we won't touch the salaries, but on i) we'll save some million. I want to see what it is and what it means. But it's not a reduction in salary, and it can and doesn't have to be, but we're talking about wages. Why didn't you cut your salary? So please, here, take a break, digitron, calculate, but here I agree: let's agree it's not about the pay cut and we'll finish that story. I just don't agree with the story being that we're proposing a pay cut. Cost reduction, cost reduction, that's something else, that's something else. But if you want us to sell the pay cut story under this story, it's not right. They're going to calculate it, they're going to take away the digitron, and they're going to calculate it. And when it comes to correctness, I read in the press this morning that the director is with his two associates at Bosnalijek and Herzegovina, it seems to me that the BiH Party has some of its own, that it is for...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28112	What's up, drago, that we own a company?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28113	There are some, apparently, some, I don't know, here's supposed to be, making sure the team's spent in a couple of months and a half marks on lunches and drinks. Well, for marketing, I don't know either, 6.5, so the rest... So, if we want to tell a story about costs, about everything, we have to be principled, when we call on ourselves, that it's not just an economic crisis in this House, but that the economic crisis is all over BiH and that it's not just about the crisis in front of the cameras and at these costs. So let's deal with a little crisis both in the field and elsewhere and in everything else, because I think people recognize hypocrisy in us and disgust our hypocrisy. And let's stop that more, let that story go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28114	We're going back, no, we're going back to the discussions, the replica of the second one, Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28115	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28116	Remzija, sit down, Jozo wants a business.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it would be good to allow the debate, and to allow these replicas, especially coming from the proposings, to keep a little bit of the proposings from the replicas and to eventually cover perhaps more... will wear out.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28118	You'll get your turn, Jozo. 30 Replica, Kadrić, second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28119	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28120	He gave up. Jozo, the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28121	So I'm not free. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, just one sentence of the introduction to give. About two and a half months ago, this home returned to the Council of Ministers for measures to overcome the economic crisis in BiH. And, of course, it's... it's never been done. In these measures, the problem of paying BiH's budget users should have been one of those measures. And since that's not there, I'm surprised there are no more proposals for amendments and additions to the Payments Act. And when it comes to this Pay Law, then I want to remind you that in the last two months, this is the third amendment to the Payments Act. And, of course, neither of them has anything to do with each other. The SDP has its position, but we know your relationship with SDP's proposals, so here's what we want in a constructive way.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28122	... an attitude such as not to discuss the procedure at all, and I allow you to...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28123	Now here's the procedure, of course. And this is part of the procedure, you know, because in procedure we have two laws, you know. And it is strange, for example, that the party in power, which has its ministers in the Council of Ministers, suggests similar legislation, in parallel with the Council of Ministers' proposal. So, I would like to say briefly: the position of the SDP is known about this, we believe that the salaries of budgetary users, especially those of the highest functions in the country, are very high and highest in the region, as far as I know, that this is unbearable in relation to this social and economic situation in the country. And we will support, therefore, all those proposals that will go towards a more appropriate attitude towards parliamentary salaries, especially in relation to salaries in the state. In this regard, we have a serious objection to the procedure, therefore, and we will not be able to support the procedure under Article 127, because if there is already something that wants to be fixed in the Payments Act, we ask that this be done in a normal procedure where it is possible to intervene with significant interventions and repairs in this law. So we won't support this procedure. Thank you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28124	Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have understood this proposal by the Party for BiH as, here is how I will say peoplely... that MPs enter this law, and then, after that, through the process of amending and supplementing certain things in the overall scope. For these reasons, I accept this solution, because as a member of the Administrative Commission I have been trying for a long time, I have a lot of attempts to respect the position of the SDA Club to amend this Payments and Refunds Decision and all the content of that decision. So, so far, we haven't had a majority on the Administrative Commission that would have made that decision or quorum that would have made that decision. For the last time, the Party for BiH together with the SDA had proposals for a correction in which here we would fit into these economic developments currently in BiH. And, I honestly think if this is the possibility that in the next period we are changing the Law of Salaries in a wider volume that will cause a drastic fall in the salaries of MPs and some measure of those who have lower coefficients, then this is the only correct way to adopt it today, so that for the next session we already have certain changes and additions. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28126	Milorad Živković, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28127	Thank you, Chairman. What I'm trying to say is that the explanation that the proposings have stated for this bill is not acceptable enough for me. Because to say why it's not acceptable, we'd have to take a step back when we passed the pay law. You've all witnessed that practically in order from the RS were for MPs to be in the Payments Act. The only colleagues who came from the Federation said they shouldn't, and unfortunately, because they didn't have a congregation majority, it had to be done. I ask the question: What has changed since we discussed the Law on Salaries and when we asked it to be in law until now when it is required that MPs be put into law? Of course, we asked the judges to be in that same law. I'm curious about what's changed since then and so far, and what's made you even go along with the 127th proposal, so something even more urgent than that day has changed so far? On the other hand, I'm surprised at the inconsistencies in the proposals. The Dayton Agreement signed also had its Annex IV where the parties agreed in Article IX under '2. The fee for persons in office in BiH institutions cannot be reduced during the term of office of the holder of the post's intention, I think, was to strengthen the joint institutions in BiH and make these institutions attractive to people in BiH, to come and work in these institutions. What's he trying to achieve here? That these people are destimulating here in BiH and going back to where they came from, at the same time breaking the BiH Constitution? Knowing that, the BiH Party has submitted an amendment to the BiH Constitution to this particular member. How can 32 treat something by law, break the Constitution, and then ask that the Constitution be changed to do something? I don't see any connection between these two activities. So, then we have to wait to see if the constitutional changes go through. If the amendments to the Constitution pass, then it can be legally applied to the reduction of salaries and remuneration of the staff of the institutions so that the proposing would have to explain further what happened in the meantime, and why are procedures that violate the Constitution and procedures that go to change the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28128	Here, if you listened carefully to a colleague of Kalabić and what you were just saying, it just fits what I said: everything needs to be watched as a whole by the initiatives we've launched. So we have a replica, Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28129	Thank you, Chairman. I'd have to worry, this is the third time, Mr. Chairman, as you tell me what I was about to say. But it really is, colleague Živković. [[Common discussion]] No, no, I got more. So it's not about any inconsistency because we started, as you said, you explained what I'm supposed to say, so we started the amendments to the Constitution. Maybe you're a little order of moves here at the College, maybe you should've... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28132	Procedure, procedure. 33 Replica, Šefik Džaferović. We're discussing this request for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28133	Well, I don't think Mr. Živković should be worried about this proposal or his procedure. This really doesn't apply to joint institutions. You're talking about some joint institutions. This applies to BiH institutions, you did not read the Constitution correctly, to BiH institutions, so you really have no reason to worry. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28134	Živković, replica. We're discussing an emergency procedure request.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28135	So, if you're reading the Constitution, it says here the fees, they didn't write the salaries anywhere, so, among other things, and the fees they got for the people who work here. So they don't write wages anywhere. You treat only wages, and below that you treat members with compensation, which directly violates the Constitution. For this reason, your initiative should have a certain order, where the Constitution should first change, and then propose these laws. As for yours, let me say, suggestions, Mr. Džaferović, I want to tell you that this expression, and we used it, you know, in '97, joint institutions -- didn't bother anyone. But in this year, it's become, let me say, problematic. But if you're using the Internet, I believe you're using, type joint institutions on Google, and in 0.0 seconds you'll get 300,000 concepts about joint institutions. So if I'm also talking about the arguments that you want to talk about, let's say, the high representative as a final authority, he shouldn't be making mistakes for you. How, then, in decisions declaring the laws, amendments and additions of the law and making other decisions, the High Representative uses the term of the joint institution. If you claim that the term does not exist or does not mean anything, to invite the High Representative to interpret us, I have the contribution of the High Representative and I can allow you to read it. If the High Representative is not enough to give you an argument, let's look at the conclusions of the Peace Implementation Council. You are familiar with the PIC, and I hope you respect their decisions, as well as the bonan conclusions, where there is a subtitle called the Joint Institutions at the Bonago Peace Implementation Conference. In several parts, the joint institutions are also used in the summary of the Bosnian Conference. Or maybe you don't recognize the termology of the Bona Conference. But you probably have to recognise the BiH law that we last passed here, the Law on the flag of BiH "Official Messenger" 01/98, in Article 3, where the flag of BiH stands out, is said to be on any other building of joint institutions. Please, in law, you have the expression of a common institution, and you here challenge me to tell the joint institutions. How much impertinence can go far, not to recognise neither the PIC, nor the High Representative, nor the law of BiH. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28136	It's a matter of perseverance here, so just repeat it, repeat it. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28137	Insolence can indeed go far, that BiH's constitution is not respected. You have just read the Constitution of BiH and this is not only a replica to you, but a replica to all those who use this term, because there are no common institutions in this country, there are original state institutions here, but I call them the BiH institutions, as it says in the Constitution and as it says in our rules of procedure. And all those who used it for one reason or another, I invite them to stop.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28138	Well, I think it's time for us to get back on the subject, but here's another replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28139	The second replica, and apparently all the evidence that I've cited here, I'm talking about arguments, is not enough for you. I will say that it is enough for me to use this term in the institutions of the RS in everyday official communication in resolutions and the National Assembly and the Government and I think that it is perfectly correct, legitimate, and has long been in use and being long ago, as long as there is a common BiH which, by the Constitution of BiH and by Article I of Position 3, consists of two entities: the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28140	Alajbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28141	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would ask my colleague Živković to recall certain items in the Code of Conduct of MPs. And, in some ways, to try to stop a certain vocabulary which, in some ways, is not quite appropriate to the Codex, because actually the measures of impudence are very questionable in this parliament and who would be the feather of the measure of impertinence: at this point it would be difficult to actually step away from fellow Živković to that end.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28142	I beg you, I beg you, of course, here, if you will, insist, be my guest. So, I'm asking you to get back to the agenda. Here, you've all shown patriotism and everything's okay. Jerko Ivanković. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28143	I'll have a brief replica, and I'll have a picturesque example. In the former system one director is...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28144	Gives us an example, is it a proverb, Jerko?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28145	It's a replica, but it's an example. In one company in the former state, the director was supposed to be removed and the working council prepared himself, called a session, and wanted to replace him. He agreed with one employee how to solve this problem, and when the debate developed about it and already preparing for the vote, he stood up one of the employees and said well, but I no longer want our cook Mare's spirit to eat, we need to change it and the debate turns in that direction and instead of the director of the shift cook Mara. So about us, we have a situation: while the country is convulsing in economic problems, we are now having a debate whether the institutions are common or not. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28146	Well, we've heard of it. Slavko Jovičić, discussion. We're going back to the debate, please. Slavko Jovičić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28147	Respected chairman, respected members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs, of course, and international media, dear colleagues and colleagues, this country is in the biggest troubles due to various procedures, but a process of palitative, which has no system solutions. This is about changing the Constitution and just cutting wages, say, back to some level. Do you read the paper? You don't read. The press does not write what the wages are, but the receipts, so they finely write: ‘Employees have more income than wages on their daily days, expenses, various benefits, representations, telephones and wonders.’ So, I have put amendments to another law that is similar to this, but fortunately, they have rejected it, says they don't treat it, and I will also do it by Mr. Lijanović's system – not Mare that Mara suffers, but I would not like to see anyone get hurt, so I would like to say why we are really in terrible trouble and I will remind you of these palitative measures that ad hoc come to us by emergency procedures and famous sugar (tariff number), so it goes. Because he says, in a month, you get 48 more tariff numbers and you're going to enter the procedure. So the bill of excises came, and I wrangled to tax the luxury and the rest that we could really take money from those who had too much, so no one accepted it. Well, I don't know if I've wrongly invested these 13 amendments on these, not the pay cut, we should be reduced, but the various benefits and benefits, and now we get to catch the drunk guy, like we're the only ones here deciding about everything and we have the best opinion, that we're the best, that we're the best, that we're the smartest, the smartest, and tomorrow we're one text, in any newspaper, and we're all going to write differently. Let's just say, at the previous session, I spoke 17 times and bought 12 newspapers, none of them passed on a sentence, at least the one I stood for, which is this economic situation and procedure. 36 Therefore I ask you, it is not bad that these procedures come, but these are palitative measures that do not solve anything, it is necessary systematically to solve someone in this country. Who is more invited than the Council of Ministers to come up with various proposals for measures, including from the MPs, including the commissions. But I've never heard of it, so I do, too, that I've invited a colleague from another party, so I speak openly, from another people, and I say, "people, this is good for this country, let's agree on the three representatives of the three nations, three political parties, and put it in the process." He'll have a easier pass, he'll get support, he'll answer to everyone. So I'm not against this kind of thing, but this doesn't solve anything, it's about changing the Constitution. What if we change this today and enter emergency procedures? They'll cut their wages again, I've got amendments, you'll hear them under point 8, maybe they're not there these measures that I suggested. These are the solutions to help and to collect these, not 40 million, but 140 million. But due to the palitative measures and the various procedures, we will not be in order, because I will get a truly one warning correctly, friendly, friendly from the esteemed chairman, yes’, whom I respect, so the last time I looked up, because he was sitting upstairs Šakota, I am looking there. So it depends on such measures, do not think that I call you personally, but these measures mean nothing. Today 20,000 workers in institutions, here I am going to change a bit, BiH is waiting for us to cut their salaries under this proposal proposed by the Council of Ministers. As long as I remind you of the various procedures that we can't cut 10% to the waiter, 60 marks are too much for him. But it can be us, but we can introduce the justice system into this law, we don't determine the budget. All the users for whom we determine money, we can do anything, but it needs to be done systemically. And Mr. Križanović was just talking about business intervention. Well, gentlemen, we're going on vacation! When I asked for a joint session in November to survive and what about these economic measures, we go on vacation, there are no measures to return to. It's all procedures.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28148	So are you going on vacation?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28149	It's procedures. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for listening to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28150	I see the debate is all about procedure all the time. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28151	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. A colleague, Križanović, expressed the SDP Club's views and we thought it would be clear enough, but the debate goes on. I'd just like to underline the real and legal reasons, the procedural and the essential reasons. 37 Since his colleague Križanović spoke of the right reasons, first of all, speaking about the procedure, he made it very clear, and I want to repeat it, that we are ready to talk about such a law. But the law, given here by article 127, has two elements, least said: putting MPs in the law against what the SDA was against, I see now is for – okay, evolution, normal thing – but there is another part of this law that we will fully support. We have a problem: we can't support it after 127, because then we have to sanction both things, put MPs in the law and abolish compensation for supervisory committees and things like that. So, if it is put into regular procedure, we are ready to support this ‘i) Elimination of compensation for supervisory committees’, which resolves position (2), i.e. position (3) Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the salaries of Members and other compensations. So, for these reasons, since we would like to support a good intensity, I hope that this part,... counterpart Bahtić spoke about whether it was a million marks, whether per year, per month, it's important, but here it would be good if we had that calculation, so we can support it. But we have a problem: if we go after 127, then we can't support it, because we're going to get into collage with our attitude that's previously known. It's about one thing. And other things, second question, Mr. Chairman. We have literally two laws today, under point 3 and point 8, which are called the same. I refer you to procedure, Article 101. (Proposal of the Law), Article (2) and Article (5). Attitude (2) says the College decides, and that is not disputed. Attitude (5) regulates the situation that we have today and I don't think you've acted on it. He says: ‘If the House has received more bills that regulate the same questions’, which is precisely this case, the same questions, yes, these are not the same questions, but the same law with the same questions, so the two laws that regulate the same are called. And now you can explain to me that they're called the same thing, but they regulate different questions, and it wouldn't surprise me if someone explained it to me. So two laws are identically called, and you're telling me they're not the same questions. Okay. So two laws that regulate the same questions, both of them intend to save in accordance with the recession. The College shall refer to the procedure in accordance with the position ‘(2) If the Council of Ministers of BiH is not a legislator’, which is a particular case that we have a proposal from the Council of Ministers and a proposal which did not come from the Council of Ministers, ‘The College of Law shall direct it to the Council of Ministers’, I do not know if you have sent this to the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers has been obliged to give you an opinion. We don't have that opinion on condition that you're the one who sent it. And then the attitude (5) goes on to say, ‘When the House gets the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the Law’, which we do not have, because we do not know whether you have directed it, or whether they have given it, then ‘law if it has received a positive opinion’ – and... Ministers, there are certainly most of them in the Council of Ministers from the Party for BiH, voted for these additions and for unification, then this law – ‘in the follow-up procedure’. See how well we can work it out. So my proposal, Mr. Chairman, is that we do this according to the Rules of Procedure and try the matter essentially solved, not demagogue cosmetics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28152	Here, demagogue we've interpreted the Rules of Procedure, we remain... in our position, and as far as the agenda is concerned, this could have been discussed in the agenda. Let's move on, then. Salko Sokolović. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28153	It's a replica to Mr. Jovičić. Now, what he's talking about is really more demagogy, this is the demagogy Slavko is talking about. Because he sang the anthem, and then he didn't vote for it. And now he's singing as he suggested certain measures, and there are no MPs. So there are no MPs. Slavko, I understand you; but first the MPs need to be brought into the law, and then in the package to resolve, and then I will be the first to raise my hands for your amendment, because there is something you are correcting. As far as this Council of Ministers' law is concerned, what they've reduced yet, it's not clear to me, I've only seen there that the regression has been lifted a little. Specifically, the regression was lifted. Therefore, we need that law, in which we should then intervene in a way that is then what we all want. After all, here, and I don't understand either the SDP proposal or part of it, but then how you're going to get into the situation to correct it, because I guarantee you through the Administrative Commission in this way no salary correction and receiving MPs will be possible, because they have, therefore, people who are constantly obstructing the proposals that are going in that direction. That's why I'm honest that this is the law, part of the law in which we would then try to do something in Parliament here in relation to this story, which we tell every day, and that it is no longer a demagogue.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28154	Let's move on with the replicas. Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28155	Professor Lagumdžija said the SDA was against entering the law. That's not true, don't tell lies. We were certainly to be this part of the law, but no matter how paid. We made the prepared arguments that you wrote down, so you went to the press, and then you used our arguments there, did you, because you weren't prepared for the session. So, all of these -- these days that aren't for this thing to be adopted and some kind of principled reasons are being brought up there and they're acting smart, in fact, avoiding that next month they're taking a thousand less marks. Because if you adopt this today, you know next month you'll have a thousand less income marks. Therefore, accept that first degree, and then the commission is working on a little lower salary. It doesn't stop with this, so you have a chance to act on SDA's request and reduce 20% of your salary. So, I suggest you adopt this proposal, because that means, specifically, by the next month, a thousand less marks, there'll be a smaller pause, there'll be less commissions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28156	Slavko Jovičić, replica. Let's move on to the replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28157	Well, Your Honor, I don't know what law the MP should stand in at all. I am talking about people, elected officials, 42 are MPs and 15 delegates, and if only the law should be passed for 57 people in one country, and we have members of the Council of Ministers, members of the Presidency, various agencies, so I am in the amendments, it will be under point 8, said that all 39 who have received more than 2.5 thousand marks, although of course it applies to us, I will not quote Slavko Jovičić Slavuj, Salko Sokolović, Marko Marković – so it applies to everything. And I, let him honor me as much as he wills, I said I don't do demagogue things and I even caused animosity with my colleagues for saying that we at least have responsibilities for the people we swear to, and, of course, here for days and sessions we've been going through all kinds of things. And when it comes to the anthem, that's where I'm brought into an awkward situation, there's going to be this point of the agenda, I hope, once. To spend a hard year agreeing, bring it to an end, then change it somewhere, and I'll put myself in a position to vote against myself on this committee and vote for a second proposal. Now, that would be demagogy, that wouldn't be principled, that wouldn't be on my side fair, if that were the case. And if an anthem is adopted, I'll sing. You heard the other night, who watched me sing nice and there's no problem and I'm not ashamed of it. But just before I spoke, Mr. Sokolović, there's no MP standing here, there's no minister standing here, there's no agency director standing here, no one standing here, there are people who have received over 2.5 thousand marks and they have to apply to everyone, so you'll hear under point 8. when I explain the amendments. And I respect you, and I didn't realize at all that you gave me criticism, but remember, in this House I've never dealt with demagogy, I don't do demagogy in my life. If it suits anyone, I even challenge, I say, animosity from my colleagues, and I suffer some remarks, complaints, and sometimes insults, but I am a man of tolerance and I will endure everything. And, I'm not the mother Tereza to represent 20,000 workers in joint institutions waiting for what kind of law we're going to pass, so that she cut me 10%, and I'm going to suggest that she cut the MEPs 10%, and that's not a demagogy either.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28158	I really don't have a way to remind you that we're discussing a request for procedure even though I'm talking all the time, but here. Replica. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28159	Well, I hope there's someone to tell Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, I guess there's someone to support him to tell him what I'm about to say, after he's spoken to me and replicated. I fully understand Mr. Izetbegović who, since this law was passed, has had some other political preoccupations so he forgot some things, but now he will have time to focus on these seemingly very banal things. It should be reminded that the SDA has advocated a reduction in the coefficients and we have been together, and we have advocated a reduction in total coefficients and functional wages, including the salaries of MPs. But then a magic formula was found to avoid MPs, to get kicked out of the law. Whoever found it from that coalition, did a magician like this chairman of the Finance Commission smile like this, so and then the SDA voted in favour of such a law with expelled MPs, although their view of reducing those, to be correct, is not respected, that these are facts. For that very reason, I expected 40 that they would support us putting this in a regular procedure so that we could go back to what we stood for at the end of last year. I don't know how it's going to shrink by a thousand marks, as it's said, because I've left over half a million marks in the budget so far, so I haven't been on the payroll since I was elected to this parliament in the museum. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Great, great. So I certainly won't stay for less than that because this is being adopted. But the fact is next, the coefficient now given to us by Article 127. (take or leave) is the same coefficient that was in the initial bill, which was amended. So we just think that that's why we should put it in the regular procedure and try to really find a common language for all of this. Thank you very much. Since the man's gone, I'll be, I've been nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28161	Well, they'll come, there they are, they signed up. I'm really asking you, really this doesn't make any sense anymore, it really doesn't make sense anymore. We have on the agenda this request for procedure, I'm really asking you, and here you are, if you insist. Milica Marković, replica. I thank you for giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know why you're reevaluating whether someone's going to talk about the procedure or not, so here I am telling you in advance that I'm going to talk about the procedure. And my replica refers to that. So, we are required to pass some law by emergency procedure, and we heard from Mr. Živković's statement that the proposal itself is contrary to the current constitution. And Mr. Izetbegović, who comes in and out of this room with a full mouth, BiH in his mouth, says that the law should now be adopted, regardless of what we heard from Mr. Živković, who said that elected officials in BiH institutions cannot be reduced during the term of office. The BiH Party has also submitted an amendment to the constitution, but now it is required that we pass the law through the current constitution. Well, I can't really understand that lawmakers need to be explained that the Constitution is older than the law, and that every law we pass must have a constitutional basis for its adoption and for its adoption. And now someone needs to explain it to someone here or someone wants to get us thirsty across the water and say, "Here, let's get the law and get someone a thousand marks out." Not a problem in a thousand marks. If someone cares about us all getting a thousand marks out of our wallet, let's get some administrative commission to decide how it's going to come out of our wallet, I don't mind. But let's not put ourselves in a position to explain here that you cannot make a decision that is not in accordance with the law, nor can you pass a law that is not in accordance with the Constitution and has no constitutional basis. 41 And that's why I called and I will, and that's why the SNSD Club will be against accepting this amendment proposal and supplementing the law, not to talk about these other demagogue things that other colleagues have talked about, but this is, indeed, we're getting into a situation to do and talk about something that's as simple as one and one that's two.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28163	I'm just telling you it's not against the BiH Constitution this law. I was talking about a harmonised approach, etc. But we're not listening. Replica, Remzija Kadrić. The third time, Remzi.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28164	No, I gave up one. Let me just say this again, what are you... So, it doesn't have to mean if Živković said that... this bill is against the constitution that he is anti-constitutional. So this bill is not against the constitution, it is in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28165	That's what the Constitutional Court assesses. Let's get back to the debate on this emergency procedure request. Jerko Ivanković, you had already, and that was a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28166	The Honorable President, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, has one proverb that says: ‘You cannot pay me a bit as little as I can work’. I also think that this may not need to be solved by an emergency procedure, that this should be far more serious and serious. Because only one information: thanks to the foreign trade policy of the majority in this home, in the last year the state and citizens lost 9.5 billion marks through the external trade deficit. If we all gave up all our salaries, we couldn't save just 1% of that. So we have enormous powers in this home, we make very important decisions, and in this context, I think that rewarding these people who make such very important decisions should be regulated in a more thorough way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28167	If I get this right, you're accusing Parliament of damaging the country 9.5 billion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28168	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28169	So I'm saying you told the world's biggest lie today. Let's move on, Šefik Džaferović. And he's got a court of law on this. 42 Šefik Džaferović, discussion. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/ I am concluding the debate on the request of the Emergency Procedure Party of BiH and I hope you will not forget that we have held a practical and debate on half the agenda of today's session. Let's go to point three, excuse me, four. Ad. 4. The request of MP Jerka Ivanković to consider the bill on amendments to the Excise Act in BiH by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28172	Dear President, colleagues, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, this law is very important that we try to do an emergency procedure, because if we remember the debate two years ago in this home, when we had the ratification of the CEFTA Agreement, then a large part of us spoke right, when we ratify CEFTA, with one strong incentive to support our production so that it could survive the unfair competition it would have in relation to other more developed CEFTA members. We also had presentations by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations who also advocated strong incentives for examples, as the neighbouring countries do, as the EU does. For example, neighbours have ten times more incentives than we have in BiH, and the EU sets out 43% of its budget for incentives or a thousand times more than we have in BiH. And we also ratified here the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, its annex The Interim Agreement, which requires the reduction of customs duties on imports of EU products to BiH and thus exposed our production to a much stronger and more developed unfair competition, while what we said here should be realised by no one. We expected it to realize lower levels of government, they expected, probably, that we would realize it. Today, after two years, with enormous consequences of which this deficit is also in the last year of 9.5 billion, we have more than 15,000 companies with blocked accounts in BiH, we have over 50,000 jobs lost in the last half of the year alone. For that reason, with this law we would try to stop that negative trend. 43 A single example in the area of agriculture where we had customs duties from the EU, I will take one kilogram of fresh meat intended for the market we had an additional 2.5 stamp and 10% as a percentage, which was about 3 marks somewhere. It has already decreased by 50%, so by 1.5 mark and all BiH producers are now uncompetitive for the 1.5 mark. With a new year, it's going to fall another 75 fening, and by the end of next year, another 75 fening. Our producers will miss 3 brands per kilogram, how much protection they had before the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. If we don't make up for this with incentives, such as European producers and manufacturers in neighbouring countries, it will practically disappear from this production and will pull the whole chain, meaning through livestock, then also warmaking, because it has no cereal to sell to, because the situation is very similar. Here, these are just some of the elements why I suggested an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28173	Here, you heard the argument, the argument of the motionor. I have a report of Bajazit Jašarević. Here you go, Mr. Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28174	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I will discuss the procedure, and I do not think it is possible to discuss the law that treats the area of excise duty and decide at a session without any opinions, not opinions, but attitudes, without the attached position of the Management Board of the Indirect Taxation Board. So, the quickest way to do it is to shorten the procedure. And given the time in which it is brought, it seems to me, that this shortened procedure would not be realistic, so I ask Parliament to take care of it. So it's not possible to decide today about the law unless we think we're going to reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28175	Replica, Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28176	Well, I'll just remind you. The last adoption of the Law on Amendments, in fact, the Law on excise duties where we had amendments and on them we declared ourselves and without a decision of the Management Board on these amendments, so that we introduced a practice that we could plead, and then, if it did not pass and we do not need to seek that agreement; and if it does, then it is logical that the decision of the Management Board can be obtained by the final procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28177	And what final ones, Jerko? It would be final right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28178	No microphone 44 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28179	And in Parliament, yes, yes, fine. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate on point 4. Let's go to point 5. Ad. 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure On July 20th, the Council of Ministers sent us a proposal for this law and this request for an emergency procedure. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point six. Ad. Six. MP Adem Huskić's request for a discussion of the draft law supplementing the BiH Official Journal Act under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28186	I welcome all present. And, with regrets that this law did not get a favourable opinion from the competent committee, I will say that I am not satisfied with the Explanation, because, I will read, literally, in the Explanation: ‘In accordance with Article 107(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, the Constitutional Commission, in the light of the negative opinion on the principles of the proposed law, points out that during the course of the debate, which was attended by the legislators, various opinions on the principles of the law have been delivered, and the results of the vote have shown that the principles of the bill are not acceptable.’ This is no argument. So it just says here that there were different opinions and that the vote found that opinion negative. So, in order for me not to spread the big debate, I suggest three conclusions on this agenda point. First conclusion: 'The Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law (proposer: Committee for Gender Equality) is not accepted.' The second conclusion: 'The Commission will review the bill and draw up a new opinion within 30 days.' Third conclusion: 'If the opinion is negative again, the Constitutional Commission will clearly and reasonedly explain the reasons for rejecting the principle of law, in accordance with Article 107(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives.'
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28187	To the greatest extent, we are bound by the Rules of Procedure and are obliged to do so, of course, if the House votes against this opinion, so this report. So, go on, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28188	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the argument of the Constitutional Legal Commission is this explanation and that is the case. Some may be satisfied, some don't have to be satisfied, is that, now is the thing of how anyone looks at that thing. I hope that today the members of the Constitutional Legal Commission, who were present, will get to know the House more in detail what was actually happening on the Commission, what were the reasons for the vote and for "for" and "against" and those who were "abstained". You have seen that five members of the Commission voted "against" this. Two members were "for" and one member of the Commission was "sustained". 47 The essence of this proposal is to close the candidate lists and instead of the existing principle that there are open lists in the Bosnian-Herzegovic electoral system and thus try to ensure greater representation of less represented sex in BiH's legislative authorities. The fact is that women's sex today is far less represented than some projection that exists in the Electoral Law among elected officials in BiH's legislative bodies and that this should be well thought out and solutions should be accepted to help remove the imbalance. And no one on the Constitutional Commission is running away from it. But to meet this one democratic standard by repealing another democratic standard, and it is absolutely certain that the democratic standard will allow the voter to be identified as a political party, except that it can be defined as a political party, and I do not think it is acceptable for the individuals listed on the political party list. I think open lists are one positive liquid of the BiH electoral system, and we need: not to think about how to close them, but to think about even more about opening the process to voters. We have recently been in Switzerland, constitutional committees of both homes, and, let's say, there we have seen voters have the right to choose as many persons as they enter a parliament with offered lists of political parties, and not only within one political party, but all political parties. I think that we should think about how it should be done in BiH to make people an available full political offer so that they can commit to it. That is why the Constitutional Commission gave a negative opinion to most of the votes on this law, because, I repeat, in my view, it is not possible for a single democratic standard, which we should certainly achieve in our society, to be achieved in the way that the achievements in another democratic standard, hence open lists, are annulled. And that is why we propose, and in our report it is written, that the House of Representatives should, when this interresor working group is formed to amend and supplement the Election Law, it will certainly be formed before elections are called – until then it must end its work and changes must be adopted, as one of the mandates for this commission to find the best possible way to find this percentage that is now at the level of the declaration in the Election Law, at least a percentage when it comes to the composition of the list, a copy and to the state of elected officials in BiH institutions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28189	Thank you. The next one for discussion is Ambassador Azra Alajbegović. Excuse me, Replica, honourable Ambassador Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28190	Oh, I think I'll spend two replicas very quickly. This is not a replica, it's a correction of an incorrect quote. So, when someone wants to provoke the bill promoter to spend two replicas, if, if, if, is the proponent, then state a completely incorrect allegation. Namely, counterpart Džaferović said in his first sentence that five MPs voted negatively, and the report says otherwise. 48 I do not know if you will include this replica to me, this is the correction of an incorrect quote. And, in fact, I'm interested, as a legislator, which is true. And I didn't want to talk about the law, he spent all his time talking about the law, as chairman of that committee, instead of explaining to us what's wrong with this law. So, in this report from that commission, we just got some two conclusions that are conditional, a lot of it needs to happen to be forwarded further, and it says here that there were four votes "against", two "abstained" and two "for". I don't know why my colleague Džaferović in one place forged the truth, in one of these two, did he.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28191	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28192	Well, Your Honor, I don't know how to define this as a replica. I have to meet you colleagues – I really have health problems and I often leave the session, not that I want to walk in the hallway. But I couldn't believe that you'd be six dots in five minutes so as to wipe out the tsunami and just amend to point eight that you wouldn't give me the opportunity to defend them at the plenary stage. I don't know, I know you've concluded that point. It's like someone was waiting and praying for Bog to come out, and I, people, had to go out, I repeat, because of health problems, I have to leave often, but I didn't intend to walk. So I'm, (?) No microphone turned on As far as I'm concerned, if you were watching, on four feet, it seems to me, he came running. When I heard it was over, I was fragrant. I don't know, business isn't possible to get back!?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28194	I've got to stop you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28195	Chairman, I respect you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28196	We're not talking about the agenda. On the other hand, you had a chance to arrange with the president of your club to take a break and then wait for you to come. So, these problems, please, we're not going to solve them now, now we're on the second item of the agenda. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28197	Yeah, I'm really sorry, I'm supposed to take this report in front of me here. I went, so when I spoke, I had this session of the Constitutional Commission in front of my eyes and there were possible mistakes, four votes were "against", two were "yes" votes and two were "abstained" voices. That's what the Commission's report says, and that's how it is. I apologize for the mistake I made in my presentation. Don't take this for Mr. Vinko Zorić as one spent replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28198	Okay, this wasn't a replica. You're still entitled to two. The next for discussion is Ambassador Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28199	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28200	Yes, yes, Azra is before me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28201	I'm sorry, the application has been canceled. So the honourable Member Azra Alajbegović was next, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28202	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I actually wanted to say more that this bill... which we are discussing today and about which we have a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission... is an opportunity to, in some ways, apostrophe certain problems that we have in the particular sufficientity of women's representation, both in the legislative and executive authorities. The fact that over 50% of the electoral body is a female population, and that we have had a total of about 10% to 15% in total at all levels of the power of women in the legislative authority, actually opens up multiple problems and issues, brings, above all, the focus of my personal interest actually the willingness of women to vote for women. This proposal has been made by the Committee for Gender Equality based on the experience of certain member states of the Council of Europe, given that BiH is in fact low on the scale when it comes to the presence of women in the legislative authority and that open lists had 36% of women and that the total number of selected women at all levels of government was 17%. So, closing the list, regardless of the extremely problematic approach, in terms of democratic standards, is an attempt, according to the draft made by the BiH Gender Equality Agency, that from 14.29% of the women present in the legislative authority, we increase the number to 26.19% according to the experiences of other EU countries. 50 Except that, in fact, closing the list would be in the projection, so, and in the final result of expecting an increase in the number of women in the legislative power, I believe that this is both an opportunity and a situation to draw attention to the presence of women in the executive government and that so-called. the principle or phenomenon of a woman as sensationalally extremely problematic in a practical sense. I would be willing to support this law, given the elaborat made by the Commission for Gender Equality, regardless of the continuing subjective experience, in fact, the dilemma of whether a democratic principle of open lists or closed lists is violated and whether a woman in a situation where we have a closed list will actually be placed in a different position compared to the will of political leaders, the party they belong to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28203	Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would not like to repeat what my colleagues and colleagues were saying in front of me, but I would like to stress very briefly that this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ignore Law, which was initiated by the Commission on Gender Equality, is one, I think, a very concrete and reasoned attempt and a way to ensure a more consistent application of the Law on Gender Equality. We, as they say, have a relatively good Law on Gender Equality, but it seems to me that certain models, methods, mechanisms for its implementation are missing. I believe in this sense that this amendment to the Election Law contributes to a more equal, or better enforcement of that law. You see, we in the Electoral Law have an obligation to form a candidate list that speaks of a way of filling, or a less represented sex. And after that, we don't have any, let's say, instruments to maintain that obligation to form a list. After all, in this material, which has been given in addition to the proposal for a law on a small elaborate situation in European countries, many, I say, far more democratic countries, with a greater democratic tradition and culture, also have closed lists. And that's where it shows, to say the condition that even so, greater representation of the less-represented sex is ensured. After all, experience from neighbouring countries shows that they have closed lists. So, I am deeply convinced that we should not support the Commission's opinion, that we should return this to the Commission again to look at all these facts and, if it is true to us to correct the sexual structure in all legislative and executive bodies, I think we should make another attempt to bring these amendments and amendments to the Electoral Law back to life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28205	Momčilo Novaković. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28206	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, since, on behalf of the motionor, Mr Zorić indirectly called on or called on the members of the Commission to state the reasons why they voted in one way or another, here I am one of those who voted against this law and I want to explain it; as I explained on the Constitutional Commission, I want to explain here at the House. I consider this law one of the attempts to correct the imbalances after the elections, so after the election almost at all levels. Whether he's happy trying or not, it's another question. Whether there are other options or not, it's also another question. What is certain is that this attempt unfortunately penetrates another principle of the election process in BiH, in principle of open lists. And this is not a vote or a statement on who is for the greater representation of women in Parliament or at all levels, but who is for open or closed lists. As a consequence of open or closed lists, the Commission's intention is now taking place, and this is equal representation of the less represented sex. I am a supporter of open lists, and I believe that open lists, on their part, provide several, too, important principles on which the election process is based. One of these principles, although my colleagues tried to deny me, is the principle of ownership of the mandate. Namely, the fact that you have an open list gives more freedom to elected officials, especially in the legislative authority to act, and contrary sometimes to the views of your own party and, of course, not to be exposed to different pressures, so as not to use any other expressions, by the political party itself that proposed them. It is, of course, an indirect influence, and it is important when it comes to the ownership of the mandate. Finally, in closed lists, he does not fully and freely own his term of office. The owner of his mandate is more of a political party. Of course, now we could, I don't want to talk about the less represented gender, she's clearly who she is, someone said in the European Parliament is 14%. Look, it's in Parliament, so those who bring democracy to us here. And there are a lot of new countries, whether they are in the European Parliament or not, so they have met the criteria. These new countries have met the criteria despite this imbalance. Of course, it's not my motive, I mean, it doesn't matter if new or old countries have delegated people to parliament. In this country, as counterpart Azra said, 50% of the voters and one and the other half, so here somewhere, so there is no more or less of the gender represented – how is it possible that the less elected sex did not get the votes of the 50%? If everyone thinks this way or if everybody, here's all men think this way, how come men didn't just vote for men, so there'd be 50% of men. But I'm saying, it's not my intention, because I don't think this law can only be observed from that position or, slightly speaking, it can be viewed less from that position, but from the position of earlier principles adopted in this House, which are related to the electoral process. Of course, we could talk further about motivation, if you have a closed list, about the motivation of candidates on lists to participate in campaigns, to participate in party work, to work with citizens, etc., if they understand that, in principle, multiple election units have no chance of being elected, if they are not in first or second place. As far as RS is concerned, here, let's say, for this House, there are three constituencies from which a maximum one party can get two 52 positions. So it's not possible, it's mostly one position at a time. So it simply raises the question of the motivation of those who are in a third, fourth and fifth position to act and talk to the citizens at all and to offer anything to the citizens, because they have no chance of being elected, etc. So, we could list a lot of disadvantages with, of course, full respect for all the arguments that the Commission has made to take into account only this aspect that I also respect. You should try to find some solutions. That is why this second conclusion of the Constitutional Commission, which would in some way allow for the repair of this blood count of the selected in both legislative and executive power. But it's not just an election process. If that's the situation with direct elections, what happens to us in the electoral power? How is it possible that where we don't have lists we don't have these relationships? And are we going to settle this with this law, just by closing the lists? We're not gonna solve this. So it's not just the principle of closed lists. It's also about certain traditions, habits, and not to say everything, customs, etc. etc. in this area which simply cannot be ignored by one administrative measure. I, of course, was against this solution, will vote for the Commission's position and I think it would be good to respect that other conclusion, that is, to form really... because certainly one inter-resor working group will be formed; in the end, there is one of our conclusions here and the task of the Council of Ministers to form and that one of its tasks is just an attempt to through legal solutions, not touching the basic or key principles of the election process in BiH, to avoid this imbalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28207	Jozo Križanović, replica. Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28208	My colleagues. Actually, it's not much of a replica, but I think
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28209	I knew it. JOSO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28210	: part of the argument against this bill that counterpart Novaković stated certainly did not stand. Be careful, first of all, the issue of the ownership of the mandate, here, in this bill, it's the same thing, is it? The term of office belongs to whoever is elected and that independence of the representatives in relation to the mandate, as you know, and on open lists is not exactly the same everywhere. Somewhere the MP feels dependent on the party's views, somewhere more, somewhere less, but also with these closed lists, so the ownership of the mandate belongs to the elected representative, so I don't think that argument stands. And secondly, this law does not solve all the problems that counterpart Novaković was talking about, but one problem is solved and it has been marked and it is said: 'These amendments to the law certainly ensure greater representation of the less represented sex in the legislative bodies.' And it is certain that, when there are fewer genders represented in the legislative bodies, 53 is expected that these bodies that choose, and to say, the executive authority, will take care of both more concrete and direct issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28211	We're going back to the list of people who've been reported for discussion. Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28212	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, here I am at the beginning to say just a few words about the course of the session of the Constitutional Commission, when these amendments and amendments to the law were discussed. The debate on this point lasted about two hours and, I'll say my opinion, was very qualitative, reasoned. ... Members of this committee were extremely well prepared with many quotes, letters, etc. to justify their claims. And I supported it, and I think this is a good solution, because it contributes to the real affirmation of our declared gender equality attitude. The current solution in our law, the electoral law that regulates this, is in itself inconsistencies with this principle of gender equality, because it is said to be one third. If we were to be consistent, then let it be one half as declared and in accordance with the law. Of course, if it's an odd number, then it won't be equal, but it's not a planned discrimination, it's discrimination by the nature of that number, is it, etc. But you don't need to talk about it too much. I think we have real here, and I agree with those who said that, we have a conflict of two principles and we need to weigh what's more important. It is not possible to meet both of these principles at the same time. So, the principle of open lists, which is an important achievement of the overall democracy and democratic election process in BiH, but we are also aware that the number of selected women at all levels in BiH has been shrinking lately. So, from that fact, it comes to the conclusion that something needs to be done, some action, some change to stop this trend and really enable a more equal and greater choice, a greater percentage of women in the legislative bodies at all levels of government in BiH. My personal opinion that the overall degree, the degree of overall democratic development, bh. society is such that it is very difficult to apply consistently, without abuse, the current model of open lists, because, let's face it, at least I have such knowledge that certain abuses of these open lists are often done, so they are preferred. And you know who makes the preferences? It's not the voter, it's the boards, the election committees. So let's be aware of that, and when we talk about achievements, then we talk about the true light of these achievements, not how we would like to be shown something, etc. That is why I believe that this solution, which is proposed, is good and that it should be supported and that we should act again in this House where 42 MPs are sitting, there would be no half-and-half again. There'd probably be one half more again, probably male again, but well, at least the odds are equal in that legal context. So when, I don't know, either, there are at least 54 30% of women or maybe up to 35%, because some models were made according to these results that were by the parties, election units – and that was just the same number of women and men on closed lists. So here I'm going to conclude by supporting this solution and I think, getting positive and negative, that at this point it's for bh. society better apply and adopt this amendment and supplement and we will achieve, I'm sure, more and better, and ultimately, the answer to those who speak in the choice of executive authority etc. We don't have a different composition. Well, because those who choose are mostly one sex. It's logical again, driven by a bit of being most, to behave like that. Only in BiH from major institutions, and all of them are important, I will not say more important, where gender equality has really been achieved – is the BiH judiciary. And I didn't really see that it was some problem that the gender balance and equality were about to be achieved. I think that should be an example and that we need to adopt these amendments and additions to the law, do what we can, that there is no institutional discrimination, and now there is, that's my view. In this way, we will remove it and give it a better chance, i.e. to ensure more equal representation of women in all bodies where they are directly elected, so to all representative bodies, i.e. representatives, or councils, county assemblies, entities to the BiH Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28213	Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28214	Well, look, I want to rephrase my colleagues to a position that I don't think is right. The fact that there is an abuse somewhere by the constituency committee of open lists does not mean that the principle of open lists is a bad principle. After all, all parties have observers in polling stations. Without them, it is not possible that election committees abuse the principle of open lists if they have observers unless, of course, they are observers, or political parties and election committees do not have such good communication when it comes to counting. But then we won't be helped with closed lists to solve any questions. So we cannot observe the principle of open lists through abuse. I believe there is little, that there is, but there is little such use, such abuse of open lists by the electoral committees. It probably does, but a little bit, so it's not an argument. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28215	Mirjana Malić, sorry, sorry; of course, replica, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28216	I have an incorrect quote on Mr. Novaković's exposure
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28217	Incorrect quote, Milica Marković. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28218	who said it was controversial that there was an abuse of open lists. Before I say that both as a woman and as an MP in this House, I support the Commission's full initiative and I believe that she is fine and I thank my colleague Jukić, who has discussed and said this, because this is a clear thing that women are also in the legislative and executive power of BiH institutions, in a way, discriminated against. And now, as far as the false allegations are concerned, Mr. Novaković, it's not that controversial. You know very well and know all the other colleagues here that because of the open lists, we have received a phenomenon called election engineering by candidates on the lists, and it has become a general thing that appears in the last two or three cycles of elections and we get a composition of both committee and Parliament clubs that are sometimes neither of taste nor of the political parties themselves, because the open lists allow it to be done. And I'd say another incorrect allegation saying that these two principles are open and closed lists. It's not two principles,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28219	Please... listen, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28220	These are not two principles open and closed lists. These are two models that are both fully democratic models that can be applied in the process, in the election cycle. And if that's true, it says we're '98. The year the OSCE conducted the elections used closed candidate lists and then the candidates entered in order, not open, as we now have. If these are two models that are applicable and acceptable in democratic states of Europe, it is only a question of how which state is defined under its electoral law, which model is chosen. We had '98, according to the OSCE rules, closed, now we passed the Electoral Law that gave the open lists. It has been shown in practice that these open lists have not produced good results with regard to the representation of women in the legislative authority. And what's the problem now that we in our Electoral Law are changing the model, with intent and purpose of repairing the situation? I don't see any problem with that. If there is a good intention of the Constitutional Commission to really resolve this matter more productively and positively, why did it not propose in its measures and in the proposals that in the Electoral Law, let's say, it proposes not to accept closed lists, but therefore suggests that the percentage should be 50% representation of both genders, if we said and we realized that about 50%-50% in society is a composition of men-women. Why is that not suggested if it really wants to improve the situation in practice? But I'm not so sure that was the intention of this rejection of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28221	Replica, Velimir Jukić. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28222	My distinguished colleague, Momi Novaković, just one little clarification. So my claim and my knowledge, on this basis, is my claim, based on this knowledge that there is to some extent abuse by the electoral committees, preferences – it did not define me, it was not the basis for my determination to vote in favour and to support amendments to this law, these amendments and amendments to the law, but it is one of the arguments. In addition to saying that it will be a more correct and correct electoral process with fewer opportunities and chances of being misused. And just as an additional argument, with all the other things I've said, etc., which is much more important than these abuses, but I think that abuses are also a thing that should be prevented in every way in our electoral system, electoral process and done everything, and so far we haven't done, it seems to me, not everything, not much, but almost nothing to prevent obvious and obvious abuses. And now again, on this occasion, I will repeat: I was an OSCE observer of more elections in more countries and I must say that I have not seen that the situation in us is better, if it is not worse, than in some other countries, in terms of electoral fraud, manipulation, etc. And I think that's the thing that I've been talking about in front of the Electoral Commission, and here in front of this auditorium, so the MPs, we need to do everything we can to make such solutions that... will leave as little space for any abuse and manipulation as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28223	Momčilo Novaković, replica second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28224	Here I am, aware that there will probably be more opportunities for replicas, but I will use this other replica so that I can no longer replicate and cannot miss this love that Mrs. Marković gave me. In fact, I've heard here that it happens to be people who aren't at the taste of parties. I just think that citizens don't choose people by the taste of parties, but by the taste of citizens, and that it would be good if people don't choose by the principle and taste of parties. Therefore, of course, some cannot help but be chosen by the boss, firstly, I understand that, but the electoral process, namely the BiH Election Law and one of the principles that he has affirmed, is that people are elected by citizens rather than by parties. Open lists allow citizens to choose those they trust, not just to choose the parties they trust. And as for the finding of one, I would ask Mrs Marković, indeed, to listen to me when I speak, because I have just tried not to talk about women and men, but about open and closed lists, the principle of open and closed lists. So, as far as I'm concerned, there's a stenogram from the Constitutional Commission, I said I'd rather support the principle of being a candidate of 50% of women and 50% of men, than closed lists, so that citizens have a chance to choose whether to choose one or the other. So this is about the principle of open and closed lists, not the principle of full representation, which is the consequence and can change with this, of course. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28225	Milica Marković, replica second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28226	I really didn't mean to spend both of my replicas on Mr. Novaković's exposure, but I have to say that what he just said is telling us and that would mean that political parties are not needed. Then we should all apply as independent candidates. And I see, and I know that Mr. Novaković is currently most suited to the status of an independent candidate, but he has us who answer to the status that he is an MP for the political party that has run him and represented him. Being an independent candidate and giving you the right to be independent in the next election, i.e. giving you the opportunity, and that convinces you, perhaps, that you are running for the next election as an independent, but you cannot dispute the right for the political party to have that choice and that right, meaning the people to be players in certain positions. This cannot be challenged by political parties, nor can it be denied. And who's going to be an independent candidate and how we're all going to position ourselves, that's the personal thing of every single person, but you have to let not all be independent candidates. There are several who prefer to be MPs of certain political parties here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28227	I thank the esteemed representative Marković. The next is the distinguished representative Mirjana Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28228	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here I am – as the only female member of the Commission on Gender Equality and as someone who was in the task force, in front of our commission, in charge together with three representatives of the CEC with representatives of our BiH Gender Agency and election officials – I have finally got a chance to say something about this proposal. We're not dealing with whether we're gonna open or... We, as it was imposed on our commission, were dealing with the problem of the constant decline of the number of women in our legislative and executive authority at all levels, because it was the task we were given. Analyzing the current situation, simulating the visions and perspective of the solution to the problem, in various ways, we have come to some solutions which, unfortunately, just from the opposite thesis in half, four "for", i.e. "for" and "sustained" two plus two and four "against, refused the Constitutional Commission. The topics that I, as someone who defended our commission's proposal, presented to the Constitutional Commission were about the background of the current story we heard from Mr. Novaković. If I didn't take your time, I wouldn't comment on it again. But, please, it was said here that this should be seriously considered. Four months we've been taking this seriously, and not in any ad hoc commission to be paid, but as a task we've received from the Commission and at meetings we've been working past our working hours, and our Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs hasn't received any information from us... According to 58, our activity has been fully motivated by the current state and satisfaction of certain political options that reduces the trend of women present in political life and that, in some way, the electoral body is training that this is normal. We'll have a report on the agenda today based on the UN Committee's report and considering the Gender Action Plan. If you have read it, then you have seen how we respond in our action plan at the request... of this committee to solve the problem of women falling in the executive and legislative authorities after the opening, or after a preferential vote. On the other hand, something that we should... and our Parliament to commit is twice the presumption of the Venice Commission this year. We quoted one to you in our explanation, and one is even fresher and dates back to June 13th this year, which says closed lists guaranteeing women's representation in the legislative authorities, and since BiH's lists have been dramatically reduced by the number of selected women. It's their finding that gives rise to a requirement that we have to deal with it. I have to say that we're in this task force, sorry I'm going to be as long today as time allows, first we tried to settle it with the compensation lists. The problem with our election law is that the compensation lists reach the level of the entity, and we already have in... 30% of the municipal boards where there aren't any members of the council. So we couldn't affect the cantonal structure, except entity and state. In that sense, they created a simulation of our vision if the lists were closed. And here no one is saying one more thing, and that's the second part of our proposal to change the current election law on these compensation lists and to put one on one, parity, alternating man and woman. In such a simulation of the vision of the results we got so that we could reach almost 30% of women in the legislative power, and therefore, I hope, then the chances that political leaders recognize us and as someone who is... capable of being in executive power, like this, when you have four or five women and when a book falls into two letters, it's very difficult. So there's a lot of talk here about highly developed countries having open lists. Mr. Džaferović spoke of fully open lists when it is possible to choose from different political options. I don't mind, though. As a woman, I as a woman didn't suggest closing a list because I'm afraid of myself or that it would make it easier for me to get into some structure. It wasn't personal, it was just an absolute motive to fictitious justice... according to the Law on Gender Equality compared to the fact that it doesn't matter. Please, Mr. Novaković was talking about the controversial cases of open-list abuse. As we received information officially that only 30% in Sweden, up to 30% of voters use preferences, so we received multiple official information from the CEC that our open lists are mostly printed with three or four types of pencil colours used and that – the pen writes with the heart – work in 90% of the cases of the election board. If you are reading recently on the press columns that the election committees are saddened and no longer have the right to be individuals – the result is that. Whether it's a matter of mandate, party or mandate, an individual has been resolved in our Electoral Law and we have not touched it. 59 So, I will go back to the basic objection that this should be seriously considered, that is a step back and if you have and read the material that we have given you – we have shown you that the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Poland, some of them highly developed countries, with an enviable degree of democracy established gender equality, have not taken such a sudden step as we wanted to take when we adopted and started to conduct our own elections, of course, not hoping that electoral engineering, independent lobbying, or intrapartial difficulties to trust our women members and lead to such a drastic decline in women's participation in our country's political life. And that's why I think it's precisely why I think that the proposal of the president of our committee, which has been translated into these three conclusions, something that can very easily draw us out of this situation, but I ask you nicely that what we have offered you, with the reason that this does not mean a reduction of the democratic process of the election, but it means adapting to our real state, and not creating an illusion that we can solve it differently, did not intend to destroy the democratic process and the development of the democratic process in our country, but, at least once, when we get a task, we try to act in such a way that we offer both the task a solution and answer. Maybe he's not good, but I'm asking all those who want to bring this down some other way, and they don't say we're satisfied, so said one member of the Constitutional Commission, and when women have equal chances. I don't think that's correct and that today we can't just settle for equal chances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28229	Thank you. I would not like to call on Article 27 under f) restricting the duration of the debate to finish the whole agenda today, but please according to the reported to frame your discussion in five minutes. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28230	Thank you very much. It hasn't happened yet that I've overstepped my time so I don't consider this to be directed at this announced debate. You see, why did I answer? I made my point on this clear to the Constitutional Commission. I was absolutely up for the adoption of this law. Today it is shown through this debate and the number of interested people that there were reasons why some of us were so committed, but I respect the right of colleagues who were against this solution and I don't think I do, and here I clearly want to say that they are against the greater representation of women. I absolutely believe that we were all up to it, only it was a question of how to make it happen. But I have answered to say that this debate shows that there are no mature circumstances for us to definitely define ourselves about this law and this report, and that is why I am given a new deadline of 30 days to make a new report and to consider all the circumstances that have arisen today in the debate and to try to come up with a solution that the House of Representatives can accept. 60 You see here two things. It is not what Mr. Novaković, I am sorry that he is not there, the doubt between women's higher representation, i.e. equal gender representation and open or closed lists. If we're going to talk about the democraticity of the electoral process, I'm for direct elections, to declare myself immediately, not closed lists. It means that candidates directly address the people and voters and take responsibility for the support they will receive, not through parties. Both open and closed lists suggest parties. And the fact is that certain shifts in the democratisation of the electoral process have been made through open lists, it cannot be denied, but also the fact that there are manipulations within the electoral process by using this instrument and that everything needs to be done well. But you see, there's nothing more alarming at this point in the election process than this catastrophic representation and gender inequality. And that's something that has to alarm us all. Well, look what he said... The Committee for the Prohibition of Discrimination of Women, which he gave suggestions under the BiH Election Law and Process, as the Venice Commission said. We also have the opinion of a high representative who, in certain parts, is different intonated and all of this needs to be reviewed. But I don't think at this point there is more resources in BiH than more equal, the necessity of more equal representation of women for the entire democratisation of society, not just for their... That's what I'm telling you, I believe, and that's why I don't think we should miss this opportunity to find an instrument that we're going to bring it to one level, not less than 10% as it is now, but a minimum of over 30% that we can use that resource in a quality way for the general good in this country. So that's one very important thing. Secondly, whether it means closed lists in countries such as Norway, Spain, Poland, Portugal, that these countries are undemocratic. So I'm asking you, Mr. Ajanović, here's what you're talking about, you're talking to me now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28231	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28232	So we also need to see that in these countries, this representation is much more correct and much more serious than in the countries where the lists are opened. And another thing I'm trying to say - we can't tolerate this situation anymore. Well, things aren't fixed in BiH just because we can call ourselves Democrats, but some things and demands are set before us, and so women find themselves second in line, etc., so we've been fixing things, so let's do it now. We're a society in profiling, transition, and let's choose what can mean a total improvement in relationships. I think that higher representation should now be the first criterion to be determined. Let's try to find some modus, not to converse open and closed lists, in the next month, and let's come up with a proposal that will allow both parties and candidates and parliament and the legislator not to repeat the same story and not be in the same condition. That is why I support this proposal to give a new deadline and hold an additional debate and seek a better solution. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28233	Thank you. Next for discussion is Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28234	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in each of my own, not a discussion but a behavior and an action, I fight for gender equality and I constantly call for honesty. Do you think we're going to get that, that balance, and I'm looking at all of you now who are so keenly behind us – that you, gentlemen men, my colleagues, have not given up your mandates and given up your place to your colleague, but sit with me here. Why didn't you do it? There were colleagues on all your lists! [[Common discussion]] Please, I'm not thinking of you looking at us all and yourself. We've all had on our co-worker lists. We all fought for power to sit here. And I've never heard anyone say it, and I, in particular, give up my term in favour of my colleague who was in front of me, and I was last on the list. So gender equality is not achieved that way. Now I'm a little bit of a boaster. I've mostly been chosen by women, and I know that, I have arguments. You put a thousand in front of me, I'll be the last on the list, I'll pass on every list. Not that I'm pretty, that's what I've been saying. So, they didn't choose an actor, they didn't choose someone here as a model, they trusted me. Well, when we fight so hard to create equality for our ladies, and I'm fighting, there's one way - 50% share responsibility and obligations, here's 50%... If we close the list, you will be sitting here by the executive committees of the parties. Because as far as I'm going to go, I don't prefer to be put on the list anymore, not to be elected, but can I be here, sitting in Parliament, not to be vice president, let's say, my party, member of the Executive Board, president of the City Committee, and I'm an ordinary candidate, and now someone's going to show me confidence, and they're not going to send a vice president to the party. So, let's close down a list for a member of the Bureau, just the parties running. Well, when we see who would be best, if Silajdžić was chosen, well, we will confront him another, we will not oppose him who was on the list. What are we doing here? We commit rape by the will of the people in this way. The people's will is the strongest. You kaniti to have the right election, so there's a thousand eyes right there in that election, everyone's got observers and special pens working, special ones out there have, I know, some dens, so that's who's who, how. The only way to establish and fight for the interest of the lady is 50%-50% to put them on the list. But we'll still be in 90%. Well, when we say so, why in our government or Council of Ministers, there is not a single minister's wife, and we do, these parties, the joke. We have a deputy, true. We won't give her the place of minister, but we want some deputies, let's have a lady. So, people, we're banalizing things. Don't rape the people's will. 62 On closed lists, I say, I still had it closed or open, because I don't know if I'm going to be a candidate for anyone anymore as I perform, sometimes like this, sometimes someone likes me, and I don't like my colleagues, but I'm proud to have a colleague of the Milica next to me. I'd like to sit down instead of Professor Suljkanović another lady, but there's not, they want Professor Suljkanović, they won't, the free starts elsewhere. There were four ladies in front of me, I'm the last one on the list – they want me, they're free, they're free as you like. So don't do it like that and banalize things. And don't tell me about the democracy of Norway, there in Parliament, I see the footage, and in the German Bundestag, so I rarely see a woman. And if I see them, they're silent, and ours are at least active. They're ours, my friend Milica, the professor, the teacher, all the distinguished ladies active. Well, what do you think we got 10 more ladies? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28238	What are we going to do, Slavko, in time?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28239	They love everyone. Is the time gone? When did you cut it? You're all in a hurry, Chairman. You respect me, and I respect you even more, but I can't ever, you've never been before, I have to finish this, to speed up eight points like a tsunami and when I have to defend the pay amendments... 63 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I have health problems. I had to get out, Chairman. And look how many of them have reported to you today on Election Law, because we all think we're going to be in this session next term. I will be at the next election again here, and for you, I look forward to being, instead of you men on this side – all ladies. And that's equality.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28241	Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28242	I don't think we should sacrifice one to get another, or sacrifice open lists that have proved to be one good correction of party will and assessment according to the people's will and judgment, because these are folk elections, these are civil elections, is it? The party is here to offer and the people to choose. It happened that the party appreciated the man as the first, to put him as the bearer of the list, not to enter parliament at all, that the people would evaluate him like that. Therefore, I think that this is an essential mechanism at this time, in this society, and that it should no longer be sacrificed and, on the other hand, we can, obviously, be given the maturity of society, it is necessary to do it artificially, in one way or in one artificial way, open space for ladies, and I suggest that we go towards ensuring 30% of the place in all legislative bodies, from this to the lower. So this parliament should count at least 12 women. And for the record, when it fills in, ladies first, when it fills in 12 seats to the ladies, then it goes 30, possibly, men, whether or not she got five times less votes than a male colleague, etc. It's to be done if we want that thing, and we know we have to do it in an artificial way. It's to be done that way, not sacrificing open lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28243	Replica, Mirjana Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28244	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I really do thank you. Of course, the replica is to Mr. Izetbegović... on good intentions. And it's really nice to imagine, but here I have a report from the Venice Commission on 13 June, where at point 120 says: 'Reserved places for women are not a legitimate option in Europe. After the election process, there is no... law of intervention on the already given trust." I, unfortunately, must say that we have considered such options, and I must say that what Mr. Izetbegović is talking about is not far away, but when it comes to intra-party policy, because I encourage from such a political option that in his Statute has this variation in the choice of party organs, and when it comes to the gender, and when it comes to ethnicity, and when it comes to age, etc. Therefore, that 64 is legally within the political structure, but in the elections, unfortunately, if anything means the official position of the Venice Commission, then it is not possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28245	Replica, Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28246	And what does the reserved place mean to him? So if you put a closed list and you booked it, you nailed that thing down and made it very clear. And I said earlier that the man had been reserved first place, so he didn't enter Parliament at all. He had a reserved place by his party. If that doesn't work, is it, if it's against European standards and principles, then probably go on, what Slavko Jovičić said, one - one - one woman - one man, so increase their chance to get to at least 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28247	We have various opinions of the Venice Commission, Mrs. Malić, which is interpreted differently. We know, we read it, too. Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28248	Dear Mr. Chairman, obviously this is one of the most important issues as soon as the proposal to amend this law by the Gender Equality Commission has caused this number of debates. A similar situation was on the Constitutional Commission. I would like to say... that the Electoral Law is one of the most significant laws, I dare say a law that has value immediately after the Constitution in every democratic country and certainly it triggers attention... in every election process, and in our country, in particular, if we define, or if we observe this process since '96. A year to this day. However, it must be said that certain democratic principles have been met. What concerns BiH is that a more significant drop in women's participation in the legislative structures of all levels of government is indeed a major one. I'll say, let's say, in my municipality, which ranks the first fifteen by number of registered voters, there's only one woman currently in the local congregation. That's 3.2% and that's a worrying question. In the National Assembly, it must be said that a significant number of women is, on average, much higher than in the State Parliament and also young people. The drop in women's participation in the legislative authority, I believe, should be a serious warning for changes in the Electoral Law. I think it is necessary to address this issue of full equal participation, so 50% of women's participation in the total number of candidates on the list, at all levels of government, from local congregations, cantonal congregations, entity parliaments and the State Parliament – the obligation also implies for these compensation lists at the entity and state level. ... Discussing this initiative, so I was abstentioned on this bill in line with the party's position, and fully respecting all these remarks that Milica Marković has made, and they are indeed what they are, how now to improve this 65 state that we, for example, have 50% greater participation in the next election process of women in BiH's legislative institutions. I think it's possible that if we change this and we find a model for worrying, it means in the constitution of even the CEC, that often voices are favored by election committees, not voters. Then we would dramatically change this structure. So it is possible to legally do certain actions that would prevent this state that it is and I think it is necessary... to regulate this in terms of disabling or preventing or significantly sanctioning the election committees. It's a question and the structures of the election boards and the participation of everything. I agree with the remarks present that women's participation in BiH's legislative institutions would significantly democratisation the process. But it should also be noted that it would be important in BiH to democratisation the process: lists on which even other political party representatives would be preferred in the open lists. But that's a political question, is it possible to achieve this moment. I'll draw more attention to closed lists. Closed lists ask one other question: a closed list at the level of the electoral unit and an electoral unit, thus reducing the number of constituency units. That's a very delicate question. How would they define themselves, and what would they essentially mean? So, I understand the proposal's intention, I am giving absolute support to change this state, I believe that even if we now adopted this principle that was until 2000, the principle of closed lists, that we would not solve this issue in essence... Yes, it would be, it would be favoring in a certain way a person or a person who would be a party, in a certain sense, favorably, who would not be a reflection of the will, which would demotise, here I agree, an electoral body to respond to the vote, or to vote for certain persons and which would further introduce this system of party rule in the legislative institutions of all levels of government, and less participation of individuals. I agree with the fact that, say, closed list does not mean the party's term of office at the same time, but it is possible to legally define it. So, I believe that at this point, it is necessary to accept this conclusion of the Constitutional Legal Commission as it is: that a complete proposal is being considered equally in the Interresor Working Group and that we are on time to amend the law that would be better quality and that would change this in a special sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28249	I've got three other registered debaters. And I suggest we take a break, do it and take a break at 2:00 to 3:00. So we have Sefer Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28250	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since these are my predecessors, if it were... I'll try the telegraph just to list what I am and what I'm not. I am absolutely in favour of this commission's proposal for this bill. I think this should be returned to the Constitutional Commission to discuss this one more time, because when all the arguments against are heard and 66 of what we get with this is heard, I think absolutely should support the proposal for the law of this commission which has proposed this law, because in this way we are really not only declarative but also essentially implementing in practice what we are girlically favouring. The second question is the question of open or closed lists. To tell you the truth, and it's the most pulling me to say a few words on this subject, it sounds funny to me when we're comparing here with Sweden, Denmark, Germany, etc. The percentage of illiterate in these countries is about 3%, the percentage of illiterate in BiH is over 30%. And what do you expect them to read to you there? There have been situations and cases where it really is placed as a bearer of the list an extremely high quality candidate, but a local singer passes because he sings well and is popular among those citizens. Therefore, __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, I didn't mean... There goes a local singer who sings well, now, you see here if it's more quality, the more we get, if we get more open or closed lists. I mean, finally on this principle in Parliament. And I would dare say something else here that may cause disdain, replication, etc., but let us have the same principle in legislative and executive power. If in the legislative authority we have the principle that the owner of the mandate is the one chosen by the citizens, and we know how to choose them, let's not close our eyes to facts, we know that both the mud and the furniture and the loop and the purchase of votes and a hundred marifeluks, we all know that here and we are silent, and in the executive government, which makes concrete decisions, we have the Sadović case here on the list today, why he is not the owner of the minister's mandate until the end of the term of office. Therefore, it should be the same principle. If you want democracy, it should be the same principle. If the political party owns the place in parliament, it should also be here. And not only here, but we have problems in municipalities, in cantons, because these big moments try to buy these little ones, and then, then we lose to what we call some kind of democracy. So I'd go one step further here, I'd say he owns a political party there. Then they'll be responsible, because no one in this one municipality asks that MP who fled there to independent candidates and takes a break for it. You have these cases, here's one for Sarajevo, look. He went to an independent candidate's place, so he took both his sheets and what belonged to the MPs' club. To prevent these marifetteluks, to try to put order in there somehow. And one day, when we get to this percentage of literacy at least 90%, then I guess we should move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28252	Ekrem Ajanović. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28253	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I accidentally pressed this speech button, I had a replica of Joza Križanović, but when it happened I'll still talk. First, I will come from one fact that we are a small parliament, and a small parliament statistically processed it is not any proof whether it was more or less before, because it is a number of coincidences, it is a number of coincidences, and therefore it can happen, I even know why it was more before, because they were carriers, in some parties, bearers of the list of women, and therefore they entered parliament, not because the lists were closed. I think this is a very big attack on democracy, very catastrophic, if we passed this law. Take it and analyze it. In this parliament, unfortunately, the BiH Party has brought 50% of the women it has here. And why did she bring them? She brought it because she chose quality women and who passed on the lists. ... If the lists had been closed, only one woman would have been more in this House, only one woman. Because here you have so many small parties that have only one of these from the election list that has entered, and you have no party that has brought three MPs from the region or the constituency, there is none. Therefore, to talk about bringing closed or open lists to more women, in my court, is, at the very least, untrained, at the very least, untrained. And they would bring a strong, strong deterioration in the democratic way of electing MPs. Yes, in this House, there are now at least ten people who were not below, who were not above the third place, but who were below the fourth place. I know examples, and even from my party, not in this parliament now, where the proposed candidate from his constituency was supposed to be in third place, put in 17th place and was re-elected from 17th place to parliament. So if we're going to cancel the open lists, that means we want to convert two things. One thing: that party oligarchy decides who enters Parliament, not the people. And another thing: that we in parties will come up with a certain thing that creating a list will be blood on a knife. I passed... where there was a direct vote, so I went into parliament, I was with closed lists, and I was with lists that are now so-called. open lists. You remember when they were supposed to come to open lists as it was resistance in Parliament, it was resistance, and they didn't believe that voters would be able to manage. There was a story from certain politicians: voters will not be able to manage, so voters will not know to choose, so disaster will occur. We underestimate the meaning of our voters, underestimate our people who choose us. Well, let's not do that. I am therefore, firstly, to move us to one more step of democracy in the election. And that is that the Council of Nations cannot be chosen as it is chosen, but that it must be an electoral unit that will be voted by this people, who will be elected by the Council of the People. Secondly, because I can't be a party list, because as long as the lists are party, we'll come to a situation and talk about what the party says, can't be implemented and can't be reconciled and we can't solve the BiH issue. That's why I'm here in Electoral Law to say that there are electoral units and that people are running on their own. So let them go over the game, as they do in the U.S., as they do in other parties, not to get you shot, but to run for a certain... Then we'll go to democracy. 68 And now, as far as women are concerned, I am in favour of correcting the way to be a greater number of women. But it can be, whether someone liked it or not, what Izetbegović said, that way. We have a party in which the wife and bearer of the list were and was president of the party, so she did not enter parliament, no parliament has entered.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28254	Time, Ekreme!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28255	Therefore, in order for us to improve the number of women in Parliament, we need to work on it, and I personally think that we can determine so that there must be 11 or 12 women in Parliament. And this, no matter what anyone says, can be made, can be made, can be made lists like other lists are made, so let them be selected, well, if there should be two lists, one list for women, and another list mixed for women and men, so we get the number of women that it takes in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28256	Let's go to the replicas. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28257	Mr. Chairman, I only answered for one brief replica. Since my predecessor, apart from the division between us that exists between the parties, began to divide women from certain parties into quality and unquality, given..., I believe that he was a little carried by the song, I appreciate both BiH Party colleagues, but anything that might imply the conclusion from this House's pay phone, when we talk about the gender as the agenda points, that they are as good as two women because they are of quality, and others are not, because they have not entered or entered less quality from other parties, but, behold, they couldn't do better – is something we don't need. If Slavko took us with his discussion, so let's relax a little, then maybe it's him, he can afford it, but we don't all have to allow ourselves to get into the mud in such a sensual way. I would like to say that I, from the SDP, highly appreciate all my colleagues in this House, even, have more objections to my colleagues than any colleague, the SDP has 20% of the MPs who are from minority gendarmes. In this House, the percentage is less than 10% in this house right now. And as for that, we have fulfilled our mission, at least when it comes to Parliament's average. I just want to make it clear that the position of the SDP: if the issue of open list or the satisfaction of the gendarmes, we are to satisfy the genders in the right way. If anyone can find the formula and open lists and satisfy the gendarmes, we support it. Don't shut your foot so easily what people have been doing for months. They still read a lot, studied and went out with what is certain and they know that there are a lot of remarks, but once again I repeat the principle of gender or open lists, we are in this way to satisfy the gender..., because we are the society of such social culture and every other structure. And the story of open lists being put into this parliament as such by all the dry geniuses is something that anyone who thinks it is such a choice should be an independent candidate. And in the end, to be very specific, 69 specifically invited me, the colleague you mentioned was the head of the second party who was the bearer of the list and did not enter Parliament. And it's about a colleague who's an extremely successful woman and certainly better than a lot of people sitting here. And it's still that way to disqualify additionally, I don't think it's gonna... I'm sorry, I didn't mean to speak at all, but I'd like to ask you again to understand that we need to reconcile the legality, legitimacy and some European standards. And what we have in front of us, which the Constitutional Commission has refused, what this commission has done – has gone far and wide in order to do so. Everything else is, in fact, scratching on demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28258	...supplying. Remzija Kadrić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28259	So, just here, it might have been a little too strong to say what counterpart Ajanović said that... closed lists that it was an attack on democracy. I don't think it's a democracy attack, but this is one of the attempts to really, what Lagumdžija said... finds some solution for women to be more represented in Parliament. For these reasons, this is one of the attempts that we have made, and for these reasons we believe, I was also on the Constitutional Commission, I need to find some way, and this was our proposal to... in this way to ensure the participation of women in this Parliament. And I believe that what Vinko Zorić suggested this proposal was something to accept in this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28260	Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28261	I'd be replicating both of them, and now I'm going to tell Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija first. In fact, his whole discussion, he turned his discussion into a replica, because he was talking about things that I didn't even talk about, and so on. Secondly, whether someone is handsome or not, whether they're good or not, a man can think of himself and others, but it doesn't have to mean that the voter thinks he's good or he's not good. Because the voter gives his voice to whoever, if you will, values or, if you will, thinks that something can improve his life or, if you will, what is handsome. So it's a voter thing. If it wasn't, then you'd be putting people on this: this one's good, it's supposed to be in Parliament, this one's good,...there wouldn't be a choice, my dear Zlatko, then there wouldn't be a choice. That's one thing. Secondly, I apologize if I said that women from other parties who entered Parliament were not good, I did not say that. It can be examined by this stenogram, and it's one prank from you to me. Thank you for saying you appreciate me, thank you, but this is what you've been... setting me up. I just said... that women who put quality on the list have a better chance of passing than they do in the election process. And that's, you put a woman... to satisfy that form that she's in second place and fourth or fifth, etc., and you're not looking at quality. Normally, 70 such parties cannot bring a woman into parliament. A party can introduce a woman to Parliament if she really puts a woman who is quality on the list and then she will be. And as for this fellow of mine, Remzija. Well, of course it's a backdrop in democracy. So when they changed the lists,...when the lists were closed, because you remember, all those who were in Parliament, that until 2003 or 2004 the lists were closed. And if we were convinced then, then they convinced us to bring the law more democraticly to be, the voter to be elected... on the open lists, and it turned out to be more correct. So I didn't say anything that wasn't unknown. So it's certainly an attack on democracy if we're going to step back. The attack on democracy's progress would be if we were told... that people are running in election units and that people choose for MPs as the people they think they are, not the party they want.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28262	But one thing's for sure, so women who have men like this don't need to worry about the future, that's for sure. Vinko Zorić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28263	I'm... I'm replicating Ajanović. I am a colleague of Ajanović, except that I am the chairman of this Commission on Gender Equality, Member and Commission on Defence and Security. In the second term, I am a member of the Defence and Security Commission and we have not, in two terms, used in that Defence and Security Commission, the word you are today in the last half hour. And there should be talk of attacks and defenses, etc. I don't think this is any kind of attack or attack. Here, I was saying today that some words in BiH are forbidden, which are not domestic, according to Bosnian Herzegovic television. You've been saying here that it's better for voters to choose than for parties. The parties choose anyway, but I think it's better if the parties put together a list of priorities of their own. Then let's make open elections in parties. Where would that get us? But I'm telling you, as far as these open lists are concerned, it's better if the parties put together a list than the election committees. On my ballot box, the man from one political party got the most of those preferred votes that no one knows who votes on that ballot box, but that's why one observer knows him very well. That's what I'm talking about, 90% of the preferred votes are round after 19.00 hours, 90%, not counting the first. Only voters choose, round the first, because... they learned so much that they still circled the first or the party. And yet, it's a very small case. The second thing I want to say here, you said here one very bad thing that women are putting in second place or first two places one, so among the first five two etc. to satisfy the form. I claim here that both men and women are put on the list to satisfy the form. Don't abuse one sex like that. Because the Electoral Law says that the minority sex must be among the first two places of one, among the first five at least two minority, among the first eight at least three etc. Who says they're always women? Why wouldn't she be three men in the first eight? You've seriously offended a woman's sex when you said it here that they're putting themselves in order to satisfy the form. I claim that the form should satisfy both sex and gender. Because we all remember very well here that party 71 women couldn't go to the polls because they weren't on the lists of the opposite sex. So don't give qualifications and grades here lightly. My kolega Lagumdžija, who I often disagreed with by some political grades, gave him a good qualification here. You're saying and you've looked at it several times, here, mostly towards Mirjana – don't do it, don't do it. It wasn't done ad hoc and it wasn't done out of the obituary. This was done to put out the fire. We put out the fire, we didn't want to cause it, we didn't put it out with gasoline. Be assured, we wanted to repair Parliament's blood count. Here, I agree with my colleague Lazar. We won't touch these two, but what about the county and the municipalities? Why didn't someone say this was acceptable, but we'll put in a clause that these changes apply to the county and the municipalities. Here I am again the river of the county, apologizing to Bosnian Herzegovina television for telling the county. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I apologize to them, and you apologize to them. In the first place, I apologize to Bosnian Herzegovina television. There were stories here about open lists like...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28265	We're odosti, Vinko, in time for discussion, but here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28266	Okay, here's what I'm going to do with these open lists and quotas that, here, me and my colleague Ajanović mentioned were opposed. I said earlier, outside the microphone, that equal chances don't mean anything, the same chance at the game has a goal and goalie and a centrifure, but unfortunately doesn't stick, very rarely the goalie hits the goal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28267	Here we have the replicas again. So the break is up to 3:00 in every variant. Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28268	I just wanted to comment on what my colleague Zorić said, which is that the voter only chooses first place. I actually have one experience with one woman, which I wanted to pass on to you, which is that the woman in two cantons during the two elections was in the last place, once on the ninth, the second time on the tenth, and that both times in this election process she entered Parliament 72 of the Federation, which means that in fact our voter is thinking deeply about who she chooses. And there, that was my comment. So it's not exactly true that only the first place they choose.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28269	Živković's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28270	Thank you. Perhaps someone should interpret to us or from the Election Commission that this is not a conflict of interest when we discuss the way we choose MPs, the way we are chosen, and the way we want others to choose in the next election year. If they'd asked to close the lists, we'd have to ask the political parties. Here, the president of a political party has said his opinion on this, but there are MPs who come from other political parties who need to say their views on this: whether lists will be closed or lists will be opened, whether the mandate belongs to the MP or the mandate belongs to the party? That's the problem we've been working with in the Interresor Working Group for the last year, for a whole year. At the same time, OSCE representatives, OHR representatives, also had an opinion on the matter. We should ask them, too, and ask how it can be solved, and I suggest that the Interressor Working Group sits down again by the end of this year to make amendments to the Electoral Law, taking into account the problem that clearly exists in this country, which is an unequal relationship to members of the other sex in terms of representation here. However, both we as parties and as individuals in the work so far were able to correct it. Let's take an example of delegates in the House of Peoples, we could find a way to place the other half, through the way of voting in entity congregations, in the House of Peoples, so we didn't do it. We could have done it through the Council of Ministers, so we didn't. I think this problem is a problem that we need to separate between the existing problem that has and the views that the parties need to come out and say that this problem needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28271	Ekrem Ajanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28272	I'll replicate this one more time, and I won't even be able to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28273	You can't do it another time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28274	I would just ask my esteemed colleague Zorić: ‘Why did he not replicate when his colleague Raguž spoke?’ For what Raguž said, I said, too, as regards election progress in the electoral system of democracy, etc. And I will only ask you one thing: ‘How many of your parties has your wife brought to Parliament in the first place?’ And then we can talk to you. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28275	Zlatko Lagumdžija, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28276	Since, Mr. Živković, you mentioned me as the president of the party who pleaded, given the circumstances I... sit here, that it was different for another president to be there, but here's what they say we now have, yes, now we have one party president here, I'm surprised that on such capital policy issues: who needed the opinion of the party president, and you haven't asked before. My colleague Sefer Halilović also expressed his position,... he could have taken the replica, too. Well, Dolić the third, you see, but Dolić didn't speak. Let me cut the story short. The term of office belongs to the MP, whether or not the list was opened, so don't rush here to close the list, the way it was defined here, the way it was defined here, and the way it was always in the Electoral Law and when the lists were closed before, it could never happen, not even when the lists were closed, and there were MPs who went and became independent and kept their mandate again. So the term of office always belongs to the MP and this is not what was touched by it. If it had been touched, then it would have been a tectonic change, which still means that the Commission for Gender Equality has gone beyond its mandate. They just tried to, I repeat again, if you can find a model and open lists and 30% of women guaranteed in Parliament, you have our support. And we can't believe you have the willingness to do something like that as long as you have the Council of Ministers that you've chosen together, who has this kind of gender structure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28277	Replica, Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28278	Here's a esteemed colleague of Ajanović's for a short time. So we have agreed that direct elections mean a step further, but in relation to both open and closed lists. And I said closed lists shouldn't be a confrontation between women's representations and that in that case I'm committed to women's higher representation and that's why I voted on the Commission for this bill and that's why Mr Zorić didn't have the need to replicate me. And as for the representation of women from our party, I can tell you, here in the Federation Parliament that most of them are in our club, so, and at some other levels, so we'll keep an eye on and we can be even better and we accept the suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28279	Replica, Živković. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28280	Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija has the custom of distorting what has been said and then bringing up a story that has nothing to do with what has been said here. I said you should ask the other party presidents what they think about it and the Interresor Working Group to say those views. I didn't say we didn't have that attitude. If you already want to have it, we are for open lists, we are for having a measure towards the other sex, and we showed it. We showed by having two wives out of seven MPs, one gone, the other coming safely. That in the House of Nations we have a delegate one woman. Therefore, to have a measure in the parties themselves. We are also about finding a way to put more women on open lists. Therefore, we have an attitude, but we want to hear the other parties about it and in one reasonable way in the Interresor Group and with the Election Commission and with the other factors that I have listed here, this problem is solved before the election year starts.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28281	I've still got Slavko Matić reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, here, I was patient and welcomed the opportunity to say something about this. And right at first, I will say that for at least two reasons I strongly support the proposal for a law of our Committee on Gender Equality, and therefore the proposal for a conclusion by Mr Zorić here to reject the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission. The first reason is the one which was managed and proposed by the law, our Committee on Gender Equality, for better representation of women, more adequate, but not only in this Parliament, but also in parliaments at lower levels. That's what Mr. Ajanović was trying to say earlier that in this parliament it would not have caused any big differences, although I disagree. I think it would certainly cause improvements in the municipal councils, in the county assemblies, in entity parliaments, where they are numerically larger, etc. Another reason that has been opened today as a reason for those who are not, who do not want to support the law, which is open, or closed lists. For me, this is no less important reason compared to the first one about better representation and gender equality. I agree only with the part that speaks affirmatively and positively about open lists – that they were at the beginning to improve democratisation and our society, the possibilities of a different way of choosing, etc. But as time went by, open lists turned themselves to the opposite. The open lists are this, that someone does not want to admit here (and we all know it and feel it) totally excluded the territorial principle to the extent that we have municipal councils in which one part of that municipal territory does not participate at all in the work of a number of mandates. That we have county congregations, and that's the county that's made up of three, four or five municipalities, and that some of the municipalities of twenty or thirty councilmen don't have one in such a congregation. So a completely neglected territorial principle, and I guess the legislative bodies should, apart from all these representations that we're talking about, reflect some kind of territorial principle. Since the electoral units are municipalities, the county (there is no division, there are some lower parts) here is 75 we experience what we experience. I'll tell you on the example of the county I come from, not to mention other examples, which you have. You know, we've been commenting on the election, the results of the 2006 election, so they've admitted to what any party has experienced in a particular county or in a particular constituency. In my case, the county was one with Gorazdan County the smallest in the Federation, only three municipalities in one term were solidized by people from the Municipality of Odzak and in our County Assembly: of 21 elect 13, 14 from the Municipality of Odzak and... In the second term, that's what you get out of Odjak, so they do the opposite thing. Now, when they saw that it wasn't enough either, well, then you get into the story with election committees and it's quite possible, Mr. Novaković is there, it's possible, not to harm any party, but all of them agree, along with observers to round up on all ballots preferences, if that's the party's voice, round the names of those people from that place. And then there happens to be a small municipality like... of 21 MPs, in the county assembly there's not one, absolutely none. If someone thinks it's a democratisation and it's an open list contribution, I'm the first person to argue that they are abolished for that very reason. There are others, of course. I also don't understand how much reservation towards the party's ability to create a list. Anyone who thinks he's capable enough, smart enough and recognizable in public, what's his party list gonna do, go to the polls as an independent candidate. My noun Slavko says it was last on the list, but you were on the SNSD list. If you were an independent candidate, where would you be chosen? Try next time and you'll see. So, even open lists of the right party, here it's said that open lists aren't made of parties. [[Common discussion]] I won't bother you anymore, I'll finish with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28284	Thank you very much. Continuing at 3:00 p.m., the replicas have been spent. Here you go, Mr. Jovičić. It's a break by 3:00. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28285	I'm just, by putting my name on the party list, affirming the party and thanking and saying all the honor they had in me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28286	Thank you. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28287	So that's the first one. And secondly, let me remind you, here's a little bit more, we had the election in '90. the years and the two houses, the councils of the municipalities,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28288	Wait a minute, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28289	where each municipality had to give one, so Banja Luka gave one messenger, and so did the Čajniča one. So we had this in '90. in the year of two homes, the Council of 110 MPs and the Council of Citizens 140 MPs. So that's how it was. Now, who's to blame for us not making constitutional changes so that this House counts 386 MPs as Hungarian, if we need it so much. But I was just looking for a Solomonian solution so I said one man - one lady, 50% fulfilled that quota and, once we're finished, here in Parliament will be 85, 89, I don't know how many men, and the rest of the lady. So you can't, people, through the Election Law rape the will of citizens who choose you or don't choose. And I didn't trouble you here with the question of who puts you on the list, whether you're a member of that party or not, on the contrary, the parties bring you a mandate, which is why there is a political structure. But if we close the lists, then it's an unimpeached right, I apologize to the professor, I take as a clagort, not that you're doing it, but you're the president of one of the most influential opposition parties here, then you have the right to sit in your club all those you propose, because it's gonna be hard for you to stand up. Well, you have this relationship now, four of you are a man, one lady. So there's no equality either, and we're not going any further. So, please, you can establish that 50% reciprocity ratio, but you will never establish the possibility of affecting the electoral body to whom you will give trust. That, denominator, was my essence of the discussion, not of whether I'll be on the list next time. I don't believe in front of this party since I'm applying them like that...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28290	There go the men, Slavko.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28291	but it's possible that someone else will want me, because they're going to get some results with me, but I'm not giving up my party. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28292	Slavko, people are gone. At 3:00, we move on. 77 [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. Please take your seats, here's the quorum. I did not conclude item 10 for the reason that Vinko Zorić is right to have another replica about this law, about this debate. Here you go, Vinko.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28294	I thank the chairman. I was just guarding this one replica so I could say what I'm about to say about two sentences. And that's...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28295	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28296	...to ask my colleagues to support these conclusions, because that's why nobody loses anything. Let's once again at the Constitutional Court see all arguments for and against and it's never too late this law to die, or put him out of life. So I ask all my colleagues and colleagues, not prejudge anything, to support these three conclusions and then to see, or to seek a solution, here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28297	Now I can finally conclude the debate on point 10. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH – Proposers: MPs Sefer Halilović, Vinko Zorić, Mirko Okolić, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Denis Bećirović, Velimir Jukić and Adem Huskić (first reading) The proposal entered the procedure within six months, with a request to be considered under a shortened procedure. We made the request at the 57th session. We received an opinion on the constitutional basis and the principles on which this law rests on 20 July of this year and the Commission found that there was a valid constitutional basis and supported the principles of the proposed law. So, I'm opening a debate. ... I've got one of the promoters on file. Mr. Sefer Halilović. Here you go. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28299	Here's a short while, since almost everything about this law has been told,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28300	Of course, the law is in first reading. That's what I missed to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28301	Almost everything that was to be said about this law has been told. Finally, this House of Representatives was adopted by this law when it was under urgent procedure but after the remarks we received from the House of Peoples we have installed everything in this proposal. And this is a joint proposal from this investigation committee. What I would take advantage of here, and I hope that I will not abuse your time, is to ask you that for almost two months now, there has been a conclusion of this home to ensure the resources for the Commission's work, and now it has stopped. Apparently, in the House of Peoples, there is an opinion that they should enter this committee, and now there are some administrative breakdowns, and what I would ask of the College is that these issues are resolved and that we finally start to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28302	Here, Mr. Halilović, as I recall, we're at the College of Both Homes, so at the Joint College, we've reached the agreement to go with a request for security of these funds and now I don't know where it's stuck, so to speak. But here, we'll see. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? About funding this commission, this ad hoc commission. So Remzija Kadrić also came forward for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28304	I thank you, Chairman. So, I support the principles of this law, however, when it comes to the work of this commission, here is the chairman of this ad hoc commission, I suggest that he and the other members of this commission do their work in this committee for research on donations to work without compensation. And I expect the chairman of this committee, Mr. Halilović Sefer, and the other members to do this job without compensation. Here's what Adem Huskić did to follow his example and to do this job without compensation. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28305	Okay, Remzija used this for one call. Let's move on. Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28306	Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28307	Are you going this way?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28308	Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28309	Did you sign this?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28310	I don't sign anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28311	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28312	So, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, by the end of the session, I will draw a conclusion, because at the last session of our services, I have not been delivered to us, immediately, to say - I refuse to receive in all ad hoc commissions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28313	Shall we talk about this signing later, we're on the law now?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28314	And the second thing is, it goes to the conclusion that this parliament would not turn into SIPA, the Tužilaštvno's Office, and I don't know who, the conclusion is, "The Commission is asking all the competent institutions of BiH, the SIPA and the Prosecutor's Office to conduct all the investigations and to determine what was done there about donations." And as a flattery: if the SiPA gentlemen heard the messengers in the National Assembly of the RS, let them hear me and any of us, and let them do their work. This will save money, thus this parliament will not become an institution of the judicial system but will put into office the institution that we have established. And this commission (I will conclude, that I am not saying now, until the end of the session you will get it) asks all of these institutions, so I told the SIPA and the D.A., to prepare the report, and that based on their reports, we will deliver complete material to this committee so that we can tell you on this committee - you did well, thank you for doing your job for which you were paid or - you will continue to work, and we will find ways to reduce 80 of it through the budget of receipts or what you did not do, and not that for every thing that happens in this country: let's form an ad hoc commission, let's let's find an investigative committee, let's let's let's do this! That's what I want to conclude, I'm not against this commission, so whoever doesn't get me wrong, but she has to have another function and she has a legislative function, so I'm going to tell the commandant, that the lower institutions that are in charge of all of this take to do their job and determine everything that was there and that when it's over, we're going to sit on the commission and say thank you, gentlemen, you deserve the commendation. Well, instead of taking these 40,000 marks, as planned, we're rewarding you here's what you've done, because I'm giving up any, not commission, I'll be in every commission, but only to get the institutions in charge to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28315	So, let me remind you, we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information, in the first reading. Replica, I have before Vinko Zorić and Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28316	I have to replicate, and here's my colleague, Kadrić, and my colleague, Jovičić. Their three conclusions, i.e. one conclusion, do not know if he suggested the conclusion but he called for a colleague of Remzi and two conclusions by Mr Jovičić to be able to come to an agreement, which is: to abolish all ad hoc commissions in this House. So, it's not Mr. Halilović, who is now seen as a pre-resonation of this investigative commission, it's not his will. That's what this home decided to be like. And what about the fee, so let us pick up the cream if we're going to give it up or not, that we give up, and not that we're going to give up. So, we will decide on our own, on this investigative committee, whether to give up some of our privileges or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28317	Sefer Halilović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28318	Just for a little while. These 35-40 thousand marks, not for the work of this commission, but for the work of that accompanying apparatus, or service that will support the work of this commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28319	It's famous, Mr. Halilović, we'll work to explain to other people here. I no longer have a report to discuss this law in the first reading and conclude the debate on point 11. 81 So let's go to point 12. Ad. 12. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to Reach Consent on Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the National Anthem of BiH (first reading) The college tried to agree, didn't achieve consent. So this law will be declared in the second round. I don't think there's any need to have any discussion, this is more for information. Point 13. Ad. 13. Commission Report College on Ekrem Ajanović, Adem Huskić and Remzija Kadrić (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28324	I liked today one comment from the chairman, Mr. Belkić, under point 3, when you said -- here, at this point, we exhausted the debate for several points. I also think that under 10, we've exhausted a lot of things, which we would say, and by this, here, I welcome everyone, I've asked the staff of this agency and everyone else to keep the materials as short as possible and we've tried to make them as small as possible. I also call on my colleagues to support these five conclusions and, indeed, to appreciate the time of all of us, I will say nothing more in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28325	We're going to point 16. Ad. 16. Ombudsmen's Special Report on Human Rights of BiH on Women's Appeals for Pay Remuneration We got this report on May 15th. The Joint Committee on Human Rights was responsible. On July 15th, she delivered a Opinion on the Special Report and, as you have seen in the Opinion, she proposed to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples to adopt the Special Report and this conclusion, which conveyed the recommendations contained in this report, which I also think there is no need for me to read it to you now, but we will remember it once again in the vote or after the debate. 83 I welcome the present State Ombudsman, Jasminka Džumhur, and her associate, and, of course, I open the possibility if she wants to and address the House. So Bakir Izetbegović first reported for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28327	So I strongly support the Ombudsman's Special Report asking for this injustice to be corrected and the Commission's conclusions. So to correct a situation in which, I think, part of these maternity families and I think even the BiH Constitution is threatened in this way that citizens and women of the maternity family must have equal rights. So thank Bog we're going to solve this problem. And once again, I strongly support the Commission's conclusions. Cheers!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28328	Are there any more reported? Mr. Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28329	Thank you, Chairman. And so it doesn't seem like there's anything to say about this very important issue, and I don't want to further complicate the situation, I said that to the Commission. It seems to me that the problem mentioned here in BiH institutions, and I fear that the solution is in one other place of this problem. I don't think the Ombudsman's office has fully looked at the situation and dealt with only individual cases, and based on such individual cases, it wants one system solution to be made, and this calls on BiH institutions to make a system solution, and these system solutions concern lower-level compensation. Citing that this problem has arisen with the adoption of the Law on Payments in BiH institutions is absolutely wrong and, I think, tendingly. If there is a problem, and there is a problem and there is an unequal fee for pregnant women in the course of maternity leave in BiH, this has been resolved by certain other legal acts concerning contributions made to the place of residence and the Health Protection Act and the Contribution Act. Niko one can prohibit any canton or entity from passing those laws, since the Constitution has given them explicit jurisdiction to pass those laws. So the decisions made here in Parliament before the adoption of the Law on Salaries are identical... this problem. So this problem didn't arise when the Pay Law was passed, he insisted before that. And they will continue to exist until the cantons, and here two cantons are mentioned, have not solved that problem. I ask the question: 'Is it just because the two cantons haven't adequately solved the system of childcare benefits, which are during maternity leave and are employed in BiH institutions and there is no way that these payments or compensations are paid to them, should now be settled by system law and that everyone else, means eight cantons and the whole RS, with system law, is changing. 84 I ask the same question: 'If you have two, let me say, pregnant women, one of whom is from Posava Canton and living in the same building, where one is employed here in the institutions in Sarajevo, and the other is employed in institutions in Odzak, then how can we create a partial system in which only one who is employed here in BiH institutions will be allowed to receive this fee, and the same lady who lives with her in Odzak and works in the institutions in Odzak will not have that issue solved.' What do we do with it? We're putting in an unequal position everything from that canton, and we're only preferring those who are employed here in the institutions. It's a partial problem solving. That's not the general solution to the problem. Let's choose the best standard that the RS entity or any of the cantons have made and say that everyone else has to achieve that level of exercise of those rights. Then I'd say it's a good and systematic question-solving. This is an individual solution to a question where tomorrow someone can say - let's solve the health care system as well. Some cantons don't have a system of health care solved. Does this mean that those who are employed in BiH institutions and come from this canton are privileged, because we will sort of resolve their legal changes to the health care system, not to talk about other rights, disability rights. So the entire Federation has a better solution to the compensation system for people with disabilities than the RS does, so no one from the RS is asking only those employed in institutions, joint institutions in BiH, the issue to be resolved in the manner the Federation has dealt with. I mean, and that's where I'll end up, that's the problem for the BiH institutions, for those who don't have it solved in the place where they live, but the solution to that problem isn't here, but the solution should be where it's in accordance with the Constitution and possible to solve it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28330	We have replicas. Mirjana Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28331	Dear Chairman, here, I'm sorry, I'm unusually active today. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28332	Which is very commendable.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28333	By respecting both Mr. Živković and myself's right to discuss this, although I don't know exactly, apart from the parliamentary mandate, whether we have legitimacy, because we are not lawyers, but I must say that I am replicating myself with the full acceptance of the goodwill that is being observed with Mr. Živković that this injustice, which currently exists, is being solved in the best way, but is not a good example for him. And that's the only reason I wanted to replicate. What if I and my neighbor or my neighbor who live in the same house and have the same calling, we have the same school I work at a company, and he works in an international organization and he has five times as much income as I do – it's not comparable. We are talking here, Mr. Živković, about 85 female members who are employed all in a house called the BiH institutions. They must have the right to do so, and in this sense, the Ombudsman, as the supreme authority of the interpretation of justice and the law in this country, has made it known to us. They must be equal to all their rights and we, by the Law of Salaries, must regulate their equal rights to equal compensation during this special and sacred state in which women are born when they are pregnant. Therefore, it is comparable to employees in the same company, not neighbors or residents of a canton or one region. But I completely agree with you and it should reach someone, but it's not this house, it's not Parliament's address that all the other cantons or the Federation solve it in a way that there's no discrimination between their residents.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28334	Replica, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28335	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, these conclusions do not prejudge solutions that will not be in line with the Constitution. They only recommend not to discriminate against women in different places compared to the place of residence. So it should also be regulated to be in accordance with the Constitution, but not to be discriminated against on this basis. Mr. Živković listed the entities, cantons, I know, here is a little memory of the time when the maternity, pensioners, anyone else, was not discriminated in BiH – only at the time we had no entities, cantons, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28336	Let's move on with the replicas. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28337	Mr. Chairman, I have stood up to reflect on the discussion of the esteemed fellow deputy chairman, Mr. Živković. And my replica is of a principled nature and concerns my colleague's relationship with the Special Report or the Special Report of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution. We must finally learn in BiH that there is a verdict and there is no big debate about it, that the Ombudsman's report on human rights report with recommendations within its responsibilities and that we do not need to open up some of the issues that the Ombudsman's institution has raised before it has made a recommendation. We are here to respect what the Ombudsmans have recommended to us, because don't forget that we have been arguing about this law here in Parliament for a long time, so that after the law, we have long argued about who will be the Ombudsman, and all this was because we know what the institution in BiH means. If we open discussions on these reports of the type is not a comprehensive report or some thing is correct or not true in that report, then we seriously undermine the credibility of the Ombudsman Institution in BiH. It is quite enough for me to write here, after we have passed the law and after we have chosen the Ombudsmans, to recommend to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance what is recommended, and I ask that we support this 86 report and that those who are obliged to do as it says in this report do and finally resolve this one discriminatory situation that we have in BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28338	Replica, Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28339	Thank you, Chairman. I simply don't want what BiH has signed and committed to, it refers to the full application of all international standards governing human rights, by saying not to say which rights, how those rights should be exercised. In BiH, regardless of how some want to make it and to disappear canton or entity, it is the law of the Constitution placed in the jurisdiction of cantons and entities. And that's where these human rights are being exercised. No company where anyone is employed, and a neighbor who is employed in another company, is a place where you can call for the resolution of these rights, but a place of residence, according to all our laws: the Law on Contribution, the Social Insurance Act, etc. etc. The fact that two cantons have a problem they don't want to solve doesn't mean we'll turn the whole system upside down in BiH. I did not comment on the Ombudsman's report in the sense that I do not respect this report, but I have the right to say that it is not comprehensive, that he merely focused on solving the partial problem of employees in BiH institutions and pregnant women. He didn't want to look back at everyone else who's connected to things, solving disability rights, resolving social and health care, etc., because it's all connected. If we open this issue with pregnant women right now, I don't see any reason why any of the other questions wouldn't solve it the way this-that's done, but this isn't where those rights are being exercised by the Constitution, it's the place I've already listed once.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28340	Replica, Sadik Ahmetović, second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28341	BiH is the only institution citizens can sue in Strasbourg. The parliament cannot institutionally order any canton or entity to correct what BiH can claim in Strasbourg. We as responsible people here need to protect the state's interest and try to correct the individual lawsuits in Strasbourg that are approaching the figure of 2,000 these days. So we just need a little responsibility. I repeat, there is no prejudge here on any jurisdiction, transfer of jurisdiction, but to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28342	Šefik Džaferović, second. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28343	Oh, just a little bit. Mr. Živković, I'm glad you've had this supplement here now, it's okay, is it, you're saying you didn't dispute this report, don't dispute its parts and it's okay, I think. It's not a problem here in constitutional competences, it's not a problem in jurisdiction. The problem here is that the state is required, as signatories of the International Convention, to ensure the standards of that convention on its territory. How's she gonna do it? Will she do it to entities, cantons, who's gonna do it? The state is responsible and she has to do it. And the purpose of this report, as I see it, although it refers to a question that is really not normal – two women sitting in the same office doing the same job and one has one right, the other has other rights. It can't stand any criticism. There's no need to watch international conventions. So our obligation is that we, and this is our role, as Parliament, give a signal in BiH -- please, settle this issue to be in accordance with the Convention. The RS Assembly, the Federation of BiH Assembly, canton, all of this is written here – let them do their job. We want the standard and we want it to be the standard here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28344	Živković, too, second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28345	I didn't want to open up a little bit here, say, a bigger story, and it's all about the exercise of all other rights. If you set this example with a pregnant woman, I will also remind you, for example. where two people are sitting in the same office (one comes from the RS, another from the Federation or from some canton) who are wounded in the war, do not exercise the same right. Even one doesn't have rights. So how many of these people do you think are going to sue BiH for exercising those rights? We're not talking about that part of the problem here, that I'm not talking about exercising other rights. So I think we need to find a way that cantons, and only two cantons in this country, we need to make that, what's human, and that's to make up for pregnant women when they're on sick leave.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28346	No more replicas, we're going back to the press release. There is, I'm sorry, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28347	Well, you see, Article II of the Constitution says, "BiH and both its entities will provide the highest level of internationally recognised rights and fundamental freedoms." So, 'I would and both her entities'. So, not only BiH and not only entities, but BiH and entities as well. I think this sentence is enough, so this attitude from the Constitution is talking about this problem. It's not true that I can't comment on the views. This isn't about judgments, it's about attitudes. So it's about recommendations, not judgments. Well, even the verdicts, I can give my opinion on it, of course, fully aware that I can't change it, but I can give 88 of my opinion, as I can give here an opinion on recommendations that, for example, our commission has accepted. After all, here's to not talking about Ombudsmen's recommendations, to talk about opinions delivered by our commission, which have been prescribed by the Ombudsmen's recommendations, so let me say, and, of course, with the right to say, that some of these recommendations cannot be realized. It's not possible. It's not about the will of this committee or the Council of Ministers or anyone. It's not possible to realize in the way it's imagined here. But it is possible to solve the issue or problem in some other way, which the Ombudsmen obviously did not think much about today, and we today even less want to think about these other ways to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28348	Husein Nanić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28349	I thank you, Chairman. So today we have the Special Report of the Ombudsman on Human Rights in connection with the complaints of women for the right to pay during maternity leave. The Special Report was submitted to Parliament, as I understand it, that it was also delivered to the Council of Ministers. And I think that the first thing we should do, as Parliament, is look for what the Council of Ministers has done, what is the Council of Ministers' recommendation and what is the solution by the Council of Ministers so that we, as Parliament, may bring their own court to that solution. As far as I understand this conclusion of our commission, he is what Mr. Novaković said, is: the recommendations have been prescribed and converted into the conclusion of our commission. And here I am calling out, if there is anyone here from the ministry to hear, whether it is the Ministry of Any, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Justice, Chairman of the Council of Ministers or any of them did anything on the recommendations of the Ombudsman for Human Rights which, I believe, are binding and more concrete to apply to the Council of Ministers than to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Because these conclusions again, here we are, by emergency procedure, taking action to amend and supplement this law, Parliament to undertake these activities. Will Parliament write a law or will the Council of Ministers? I think that here, primarily, the first move should have been made by the Council of Ministers and, behold, I call and expect any Council of Ministers to have any information about what it is and whether any Council of Ministers have taken this action.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28350	I have no more reports, but BiH Ombudsman Jasminka Džumhur came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28351	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I am pleased that this discussion was today, because it pointed to one state in the field of social protection and it is very important to point out that this issue is very complex and we had to limit ourselves only in the context of individual complaints, because it is primarily our mandate. 89 And I use the opportunity to point to a discussion that is divided into two segments. One question is the fact that BiH authorities, or BiH authorities and their roles in the human rights segment, are at stake. In this matter, BiH authorities appear in a double role. One thing's like an employer for women who filed a complaint. And so, we have directed our question, our Special Report only in segments of the fact that BiH's government institutions are an employer for these women and they need to ensure their right of employment. The second segment is a question of the role of the BiH government in protecting human rights as the bearer of the subjectivity of this exclusive. So, we want to prevent this Special Report from taking court proceedings before the Strasbourg Court because the defendant in this case would be BiH, not its entities. So, in order to pay from the budget, instead of paying maternity leave fees, instead of paying those fees, we'll pay those fees tomorrow, and besides, we'll pay the damages that women have suffered during that time. So, the role of the BiH Ombudsman institution is to prevent in these cases. Secondly, this question has two segments. One is short-term, so we can resolve the issue of complaints from these women employed by BiH authorities, and the other is the long-term one that MP Živković pointed out and I fully agree that we need to open a debate on the position and role of BiH's government institutions on ensuring economic and social rights, especially where the entity's jurisdiction is divided, i.e. in the Federation between the Federation and the canton. We forget the role of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and therefore, since it was such a debate, I would like to go into one supplement, or one suggestion, one debate concerning the Council of Ministers, because it was a great dilemma to whom to refer this Special Report. We knew that if we only referred to the restoring ministry that this was not enough at this point in view of one general opinion which, given the crisis of the Ombudsman institution in the past was according to this institution, and we just want to build credibility and build one trust between you and us but also you, this trust must be mutual. So, we knew: if we were to direct the Ministry of Finance that we would not get the result desired by our employees; if we referred to the Council of Ministers, it is only an employer and we will only solve it this way towards these women, and we want to solve it in a broader way, which is what MP Živković was talking about, and I fully agree with, which is exactly the role of this parliament. Let me get this straight. So, consider this issue as a right of employment, but it is also a right to social protection, not from the health care field, and since we do not have a social security fund in the Federation, it is a very important issue that the Ministry of Civil Affairs is involved in coordination activities, which is his mandate under the Ministry Act, and the BiH Ombudsman institution is not running away to make a full contribution. Because I'd like to draw attention to the fact that we're going to be delivering another special report on social security rights to you very soon. And here, fellow MP Slavko knows how much trouble we have to comply with our obligations by the Committee against Tortrum, related to the death of civilian war victims, where we missed all deadlines and where the law was to be passed, it's not important, it's a single law. It is important to establish uniform principles for all users of specific rights in the field of social protection. Thank you. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28352	Thank you. I don't have any more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate on item 16, so according to the Ombudsmen Special Report. We're going to point 17. It's about "Ad." 17. Information on the lack of freedom in the Republic of Croatia Vjekoslav Vuković, assistant minister of security, and activities undertaken after the event I think it's worth a little attention, I think it's worth reminding everyone about this information, what's been going on so far. So we had a discussion at 44th and 47th sessions. Information was not accepted at the 47th session and was asked by the Council of Ministers to supplement the Information in accordance with the conclusion of the 44th session. We then obliged the Council of Ministers to collect all relevant information on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković and this home to provide complete information and a proposal for our determination according to this case. In that conclusion, the deadline was set. We just got the information on June 29th and we put it on the agenda. The Defence and Security Commission was responsible. We received our opinion on July 20th and, as you have seen, the Commission found that the Council of Ministers did not act in line with our conclusions, with the 44th and 47th sessions, i.e. that again we did not receive full information with Parliament's proposal for this event. Therefore, in the end, the Commission unanimously adopted a conclusion proposing to the House of Representatives to re-impose the BiH Council of Ministers to act in accordance with the conclusion of the 44th session. Let me remind you, this isn't about days, it's about months and months. So here, I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28354	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, the international community, dear guests, I think that today we should discuss this item of the agenda briefly and support this conclusion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, and thus try to deny ourselves some satisfaction and the opportunity not to waste time and time on debates that do not make sense, given that they are not respected by the Council of Ministers of Recommendation, that is, this conclusion at home, that it provides us with complete information. And from this information that has come only from one ministry to the Commission, nothing new can be seen from what we have had in this House before and what 91 means of information have already been said and what they have taxed. We did not ask for such information, we asked for information with a proposal for measures, etc. and my proposal is not to lose today at that time, but to do as the Commission has said and to ask the Council of Ministers once again what we were obliged to do... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28355	Here, I hope you've heard your fellow Okolić. And here it is, Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28356	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to ask: At this point, where is Mr. Vjekoslav Vuković? Is he back to work, how he survives, because I think that if we as parliamentarians don't have information, even if we have to find out the fact that this man, let's say on the human side, is allowed to survive all this that survives? If we don't have that information and we stay deaf, then we can all get this kind of state of affairs and just go deaf about this stuff. Because, without the information required, is what you said, for months now, so I am interested, agreeing with Mr. Okolić, that means this information is delivered and that we get a state, the current state where and... where Mr. Vuković is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28357	I, unfortunately, have no opportunity to answer you, Mr. Bešlagić. The Resort Minister is here, I don't know if there is. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28360	The Honorable Chairman, Deputy, ladies and gentlemen, was tasked by the Council of Ministers at the conclusion of this House by the Ministry of Justice to draw up relevant information, as the case came, therefore, in the area concerning international legal assistance and co-operation. Therefore, a criminal 92 case against Assistant Minister Vjekoslav Vuković is being brought before the County Court in Rijeka, and in this sense, the BiH Ministry of Justice should also make appropriate communication and co-operation, exchange relevant information and inform this parliament. As you can see, the promoter of this information is the Department of Justice. As regards the specific issue of Mr Bešlagić – Mr Vjekoslav Vuković complained about the Security Minister's Decision on the preventive suspension. The second-degree body of the Board of State Service for Appeals annulled this decision by the minister and, in practice, returned Vjekoslav Vuković to work. Thus, Vjekoslav Vuković comes to work and receives full pay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28361	There's nothing to worry about, that's fine. Let's move on. Are there any reports of discussion? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on point 17. We're going to point 18. Ad. 18. Appointment of members of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications (Proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH) On 8 July, the Council of Ministers provided us with a Decision laying down a proposal for the appointment of members of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications. This proposal was considered by our Commission for Transport and Communications as competent. On 15 July, we were given the Commission's opinion on this proposal and the Commission, as you have seen, proposes to postpone a statement on the proposal of the Council of Ministers for the appointment of members of the Board of Regulators, until the final decision is made by the Regulatory Agency for the authentic interpretation of Article 36(2) and (3) and Article 40(1) of the Communication Act and the finalisation of the prescribed procedure for the appointment of the Director of the Agency. Here, that's what the committee in charge suggested. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any charges to argue with.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28363	Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28364	He's got Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28365	Mr President, you yourself have read the Commission's proposal, whose chairman I am, and I will not speak on behalf of the President-in-Office of the Commission, but will speak for myself, so as a member of this Parliament. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28366	Please listen to each other. A little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28367	At first, I would like to point out that this proposal voted by the Communications and Transport Commission is very harmful to the institution in question. This is a direct political interference in an agency that must be independent, which must be very professional and in which there should be no political interference. I just want to remind you that we also had lessons from Brussels just because six political party leaders, who at the time made up the assembly majority of this parliament, agreed from which nation of three nations in BiH should be the director, so it was assessed as political interference. This suggestion of this conclusion that, according to the system, the choice of a very important body in an independent commission is an absolute and explicit direct political interference. Therefore, I appeal to MPs not to allow it, not to bring into question a very significant institution that has achieved significant results in this area in the past, which we have outside recognitions, not to question further its functioning and simply not to block it. I therefore again urge that this Commission proposal be rejected and that this whole procedure be returned to the Commission for the following reasons. The Commission needs to make a statement on the list. The Commission has not made a statement on the list because of this proposal. So it is my suggestion to create conditions by September to discuss everything and without political interference Parliament has opted for a list or rejected it. Using this opportunity, I would like to warn myself of another indication of severe political interference, here, in the work and functioning of the Regulatory Agency for Communications. You were able to see through the media, and it is explicitly expressed on the Commission for Communications and Transport, that one of the candidates for a member of the Board of the Regulatory Agency is challenged because it is in May of '91. He had a phone conversation with Radovan Karadžić in the year. This phone conversation I have here recorded (whoever is interested can get it, and he can download it from the internet) and in that conversation, except for Slobodan's answers that, agreed, accepted and three sentences concerning whether he should give one speech to the unit that was mobilized in Banja Luka, at the time, or not should - but there is nothing else. And I want to remind you that May of '91. the year was the period of SFRY which was still Croatia and Slovenia, and not to mention who was in this Parliament and directly, not just the telephone, talked. For this reason, in order not to really politicize this case until it brings us back to the dark past, it is my suggestion to ask SIPA, of all the members who are here, to deliver precise and detailed war biographies, or biographies in the war period, what they did and where they worked. I want to point out once again, that absurd being bigger, that same man who was trying to argue, which has a far greater political message than this one is talking about, and now I don't want to talk about it, other intentions are entirely, that man resigned in early '92. as vice president of the Municipality of Banja Luka and in May of '92. The year was also resolved since May of '92. until '98. He was in Montenegro as one of the government's advisers, Mile Đukanović, for various issues. So these two things are the best evidence that a professional, independent institution, which should be independent, is trying to get political fingers involved. 94 Mr. Chairman, I also appeal to you as a conscientious man to try to influence with your actions that we do not question the functionality and regularity of the work of a very important BiH institution.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28368	Thank you. Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28369	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my replica refers to the presentation of my predecessor in the sense that this conclusion of the Transport and Communications Commission is a political interference in the operation of the RAC. In particular, if the Commission works in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if it works in accordance with the rules, it could make any decision. So, positive, negative, or, here's the delay, as in this case. I don't see a single argument in which my predecessor found the political interference of the Commission in the operation of the RAC. And he is aware of the political relationship of the Council of Ministers at the end of the election procedure of the Director General of the RAC, and he does not call it interference in the operation of the RAC, nor, let me say, politics. Therefore, I believe that the Commission has done the right thing, to clarify these matters, including the role of Slobodan Bošković, which Mr Dokić is talking about, that is, his role in the war, or his similarity or inadequacy for re-election in the Council of the Communications Agency. I received an e-mail from a gentleman mentioned by Mr. Dokić, me and Mr. Bahtić, in whom he teaches us how we as representatives should behave, or what we should do and what we should not do. Well, in addition to that e-mail, it sends some of its flexible effects from its life-form. I don't care, he could translate all the works of Omer Hajan and deliver it to us, it wouldn't change my relationship with him, or my position against the election, or confirming the list of the Agency's Council, just that he delivered it, I don't know what. But I don't think that that's the way to communicate with the MPs because it's going to cause the opposite effect on making the final decision. I therefore believe that the Commission's position is correct and that today we need to confirm that the Commission's position on transport and communications is to postpone all of this until the final authentic interpretation of the Communication Act, which it should give its position and this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28370	Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28371	Here, it's not clear to me, I have to be honest that I don't understand a lot of things when I hear these colleagues from the Transport and Communications Commission. I don't understand whether the advantage or lack of that vice president of Banja Luka Municipality is that he went to Montenegro in '92. A year. Is 95 a problem that someone was vice president of Banja Luka Municipality in '92? years, so he plus because he went to Montenegro. For me, it's minus that he left in '92. in Montenegro and left the post of vice president of Banja Luka Municipality. So I don't know what we're talking about. Are we talking about the professional qualities of people or are we talking about who's where what he was doing in '92? A year. I have to say that I read here; when I read the biographies of some candidates, I see they have nothing to do with this job, from all three peoples. I don't know if politics chose them or not. I suppose they have something to do with politics. It would suck if they had nothing to do with politics and were proposed here. So they probably do. But, please, I can't agree to talk in a way that someone's advantage is either, God Bog, being vice president of Banja Luka Municipality in '92. A year.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28372	Replica, Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28373	Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members, I would also like to inform you that the Communications and Transport Commission had on its agenda and the non-confirmation of the Director of the RAC by the Council of Ministers, a session before that, so 10 days before this session, at which we made the decision we made. And I think that we have made very good progressive conclusions that appeal to all those who have not responded to the request of the RAC Council to interpret the provisions of the law that regulate this issue and... we have even given a deadline of 30 days to manifest themselves, I think it remains the Constitutional Commission or who else, and to confirm it, and to resolve this issue. So that question will be solved this way. This is a special, special conditioning. The choice of the RAC Council has absolutely nothing to do with the selection of the RAC director. On the other hand, how can those who feel that it is not good and now impose another. That's not the answer to that question. And that is why I urge you once again to seriously consider these questions. And I need more colleagues from Novaković that it's not a direct answer, I didn't say it was a minus, or that it's plus that it's a man in '92. He went to Montenegro and spent seven years there. I would also like to say the following fact, not to mention whether all these candidates, who are proposed, whether they meet the conditions or not, but I would like to remind you that in the Law on Communications that regulates the question of the RAC Council, it explicitly states that these people must be experts in telecommunications and broadcasting. You see for yourself how many such experts are, but here I will take the right of all those who are on the list, these seven and those seven who have been rejected, unequivocally and all the criteria must be met by two. One of them is Slobodan Bošković, who is in the list of seven, and one of them is Sead Mulabegović, who was a member in the previous meeting and who is not among the seven. I'm not going to talk about the others and plead. And I want to tell you one more thing, for those who don't know, besides their rich résumé biography that Slobodan Bošković is a well-known writer. Among other things, he entered the Turkish literature encyclopedia with five books published in Turkish. Now, gentlemen, you're going to tell me now, so here you could ask question 96. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28374	Please be patient, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28375	If it wasn't tragic for our occasions, this could be comical. But it's not comical. So the question here from the RS could be asked, if someone should ask the question, whether he is competent, or politically-like in an institution that must not be politically profiled. Here, I want to warn you now,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28376	Branko, I'm sorry, Branko, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28377	Here, sentence only, the intentions here are quite different, the intention is to block everything that's in the Regulatory Agency, and it's our responsibility whether we allow it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28378	Let's move on with the replicas. I'm moving Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28379	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, as a member of the Transport and Communications Committee, I must inform you that I have not attended the debates on the quality of the candidates. It wasn't, there was no debate at all, but anything you thought was how to do it... and then it was said... and at the previous session of the Commission it was that the Constitutional Legal Commission asked the authentic interpretation for the selection of the Director of RAC and said it was over, so that it would go on, so that we wouldn't make complications. I have to say there were suggestions at the time to take down a complete list for this. It's been refused, it hasn't passed, which means we haven't talked about individual candidates. And personally, I would never let myself talk to you before we make a decision to discuss these matters. And here are the data I first heard. I, I mean, I found out some things but I said-- I said that, I say, I'm gonna ask Branko to give me that video to see what it's like, but the moment we discuss the quality of these people as the Commission. And secondly, I read in the paper that, if Bog does, the next session will be the appointment of the Director of RAC and immediately thereafter the Commission will meet, it will decide to Parliament... candidates for the Council and let it move on. Therefore, there is no blockade. I think at this point you have a proposal from the Commission that is such, not explaining certain views, but believe that we have not discussed the quality of the candidates, because we are not up to it..., which is very important, because without it we cannot move on. 97 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28380	May I have your attention, please, let's get back to work. Discuss Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28381	I will debate as an MP, and I have also been on the Commission because I am a member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28382	What are you all giving up to the Commission?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28383	No, no, because colleague Dokić brought some things out here that don't exactly stand. Says fierce political interference, direct interference with this independent agency, and I'll give you a little... where there's direct interference. We all know here that in 2007, RAC named Kemal Huseinović, the current director, as director. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. The chairman of the Council of Ministers in all possible ways refuses the state government to confirm this. There were various games to prevent this appointment, so far it went, and that's not politics. If it had tried, through the Ministry of Transport and Communications, to adopt amendments to the legal provisions in order to appoint the Director of the RAC, it would have given the Council of Ministers exclusive jurisdiction. And it's not political pressure! Obviously, something is hidden behind this appointment of the new RAC Council, and it is not easy to figure out. When the attempt failed and it failed, then the Council of Ministers proposed these seven names. Earlier, three Bošnjak, two Srbin, two Hrvat, were part of the RAK Council, and now have two Bošnjak, two Srbin and one others. And it's not okay, it doesn't mean what it was like last time. When it comes to candidates, let me immediately say that my proposal on the Commission was, not only to delay, my proposal was to reject all the lists and re-election for RAC members. I'll explain why you should throw yourself away. ... I will also represent this next time on the Commission and on Parliament. First of all, colleagues are those who are... that we should complete the start of the appointment activities and when giving an authentic interpretation by confirming the election of the Director of RAC, which is the conclusion of this commission. That was, I think, three votes "yes". It was a dispute, I'm also a colleague of Slobodan Bošković's, and I lived in Banja Luka for 16 years, I know well, I left in '91. And you know it all. Here's a colleague, Slobodan Bošković, and he wrote me a letter. He says, "The phone conversation you're talking about, there was one conversation with Radovan Karadžić." Okay, that's all true, May '91. He left in May of '92. in Montenegro, but he left when he cleaned up, he cleaned up the non-Serbs there from Banja Luka. You know exactly what he was doing there. Here, I'll be here, there's plenty of Banjalučan who'll write a statement, he was appointed vice president of the Banja Luka City Assembly just then in June of '91. In the year, it was this function that he was doing the work he was doing and the main job he was doing was to banish 98, I said earlier, and these are many Banja banjalučan scattered around the world that Bošković was one of the close war crimes associates Radovan Karadžić in the agitation, mobilization and sending Srbin from Banja Luka and the region and others to war in Croatia and BiH at the very beginning of the war. That's what the phone conversation is about. The phone conversation reads: Karadžić begs him to go and activate Bošković to go and give speeches to encourage people to war in Croatia and Bosnia. So, in my opinion, such a person doesn't deserve to be exactly in an independent agency (RAC). Let him be an expert, a triplet, a triplet! A man who worked on ethnic cleansing cannot be appointed by this state to such an important agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28384	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28385	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I would give a brief discussion on these points of the agenda, given what is said here and what is not, and in particular the conclusion that this is political interference, the decision of the Komsija, and what we should be saying as Parliament on the position of this committee. The Commission has made a clear conclusion that this list is rejected, i.e. to postpone the statement on this list for two basic reasons. The first reason is that the Council of Ministers has not completed the procedure provided for by the Law on Communications on the appointment of the Director of RAC. The Council of Ministers reached one conclusion that, contrary to what... the law provided for and the Council of Ministers did not make a decision to appoint a director, nor did it say that it did not accept the proposed candidate from the Board of Regulators, nor did it say that it accepted, but did not make a decision. That's been going on for two years. Meanwhile, the mandate of the RAC Council also stands out and the competition is under way and we, as MPs, have been given a list of Council members to elect. That, Mr Dokić, is absolute politicisation and full politicisation by the Council of Ministers' chairman that two years stands for the solution to be made. Let him bring the Council of Ministers, let him say we are not for that solution and back – we are looking for a re-proceeding procedure. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I cannot agree to this, not as a member of the SDA, but as a man, to those principles set up by the chairman of the Council of Ministers here. And, after two years of keeping in the drawer of that problem, we get members of the RAC Council who we need to give consent to. I only read it once, just one way – please, we will now appoint a new council to appoint a new director, reject that competition and set up the one who wants the chairman of the Council of Ministers, to be so direct, avoid, you know well that in my jargon I avoid more direct words and try to keep the level of talks. However, what the Council of Ministers has done in this case really deserves one conviction of the way in which it is done. In that sense, I do not really see the Parliamentary Assembly acting in any other way, but rather that it means delaying this until the Council of Ministers has made it clear: it is the Director, or it is not the Director. And another thing, that our Constitutional Commission gives us an interpretation, means an interpretation of the law, what it has received, and to wait for it. When it's done, then 99 we can do this, given that two years and more of that thing is standing. I think it can wait another month until we get the final interpretation of our Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28386	Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28387	From what we have heard so far in the explanation, on behalf of the Commission, which has been submitted, from the debate, I think it is clear that today there are no conditions for us to confirm this. I am now speaking on behalf of our representative HDZ 1990. There are two reasons. So, the first thing we see is that there was no debate at all on the Commission on the professional and other quality of candidates that we, as legislators, should confirm. That's what we've heard here, Eclipse. What is our role as Parliament: to name the Bianca people! I don't think so. That's the first thing and that's the fundamental reason that made me decide on this. Secondly, from a man who is competent, who runs the Commission, who led the Ministry, we have been informed that two out of seven people, according to his grades, are competent for one of the most responsible functions – to be a member of the Council of such an important institution at BiH level. I will not evaluate because I have no basis for what to assess, nor have I had the opportunity to participate in the debate, nor at this point do I want to give that kind of assessment until the Commission comes out with such a species. And then it's only the third question of connecting it to the director or not. So here we can't make a direct connection to it, it exists. It is clear that the problems are thick and that relations are stacked so that one relevant explanation is expected from the Council of Ministers that we do not have, at least today we did not get. And, I think, until we get it both from the Council and the Commission, that we need to get this back or... might experience the fate of simply rejecting this proposal, and then going according to the procedure provided for by the law, which is the same variant that stands. I think it's best to return to the Commission, to have a thorough debate, because, as far as we've seen, by law, twice as many candidates should be of the Council of Ministers. Is there any reason why some of the candidates, who have their name and name, have a reputation in bh. The public, in their affairs, in public action, are not among these seven. I don't have any relevant explanation why they didn't. And I don't think it's possible to play with people's names that way and that both discipline and criteria and procedures must be met, otherwise we're not just going to be a flat machine here to confirm it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28388	And we still have... the replica Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28389	I'm using the opportunity through a replica to give two answers to a distinguished colleague, Raguž. First of all, I have to fence up a little bit. I didn't say that all the other candidates don't meet the requirements, I said that out of these 14 unequivocally meet these two, which I mentioned, and the others can be discussed. And, hopefully, we will, and it's not debated, you're absolutely right. 100 Once again, I stress, I said, Sead Mulabegović and Slobodan Bošković meet unequivocally, the rest is debated. That's one thing. And secondly, one answer to my colleague Raguž. The RAC Council has requested authentic interpretation. The Council of Ministers was obvious, it is now in Parliament, so the Council of Ministers was manifested on the issue. And so, at the stage when we had one hold-up debt, now that it started to disintegrate, conditioning politically and blackmailing, I would say, further activities with this -- for me, thick political interference, which we need to think about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28390	And I still have Nik Lozančić on board. Here you go, Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28391	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, the distinguished guests, may have to report on item 2 or item 3 of the agenda and say what I'm about to say, but anyway, it doesn't matter what's on the agenda. So you can just, you don't even have to discuss what's on the agenda. Our commissions are sending us an opinion on something that wasn't on their agenda. On the agenda of this commission, there was no solution by the Council of Ministers on the appointment of the Director of RAC, but was a solution to the appointment of the Governing Council. How? Who asks you about article 36? The Council of Ministers shall be invited here to Article 39. So, what right, I don't know at all? So we... we can make a circus out of this country like we used to make out of everything. And we now have a few agencies where we don't have a director just for the circus, you know. We will suspend all jobs on European integration until the appointment of a director for European integration is carried out. We're not gonna do anything anymore, because we didn't name it because of the political games, I think we know that, to say simply plainly to everyone here in this country. We will stop, we will announce to all thieves and criminals in this country that from today (because I expect that we will have some next point: the debate on the replacement of the Minister of Security) – stop stealing until we choose a new Minister of Security. It doesn't matter, I mean, it's possible they'll listen to us like that. Come on, don't make everything a circus. If this is a solution delivered by the Council of Ministers for confirmation, I understand so, in accordance with the law, with Article 39, I expected our committee to say: it is in accordance with the law or not in accordance with the law. If the candidates proposed by the Council of Ministers for confirmation do not meet the conditions provided for by this same law, I expected our commission to be his role, he says: these candidates do not meet the conditions and these do. However, to deliver an opinion that we are asking for a postponement of a statement on the resolution of the Council of Ministers, on the grounds that there is no confirmation of the appointment of a RAC director who has nothing to do with this, it is indeed ridiculous, I must say. And, I think that, I don't know, I have to say, I haven't consulted the regulation, this is where it's said in this solution, and I believe it's consistent... here's how much trust I have in the Council of Ministers, that it's in accordance with Article 39. The Communication Act and that Parliament should be made known within 30 days, following the submission of 101 proposals. Today is the deadline for us to make a statement on this, if this is in accordance with the law. I am now asking the question, but since the Commission has not dealt with it at all, the Commission has not dealt with this solution at all, it should have been our service and it should have told us unequivocally whether this is a solution to the office and that today, based on this Commission report, we can make it clear. I want to believe that the Council of Ministers has been working hard and that it has carried out its duties responsibly, and now the decision is ahead of us. We can also extend this decision in the same way as prolonging many important decisions for this country, and then looking for the culprit in someone else. It's always gonna be somebody else's fault, we'll always find a modality to justify ourselves and say it's someone else. I would really like to invite all of you to try to help the Council of Ministers do their job and not to constantly undermine it on such issues as the appointment of some administrative council, not wanting to reduce or increase the importance of RAC at all. But I really think, imagine each and every one of you in the position of the chairman and member of the Council of Ministers, at every opportunity, even the parliamentary majority, here's the opposition, not even -- it's going to cover the feet of its own Council of Ministers who chose it, and then we're surprised at the efficiency or ineffectiveness of the same. I would like to invite you to step up our trust a little bit, encourage the Council of Ministers, try, say, to strengthen and support what the Council of Ministers is proposing here in Parliament. And I would like to invite you to support this appointment decision delivered to us by the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28392	Let's do the replicas now. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28393	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, something, therefore, about politicization. Here in Parliament, we are trying to declare our commission and urge Parliament to act on a proposal from the Commission by politicising. We can talk about whether it's politicisation or not. Be careful, unlike when the Council of Ministers agrees on the selection of the director of the agency, this parliament, unlike this role of the Council of Ministers, is elected on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. And if we choose on the Council of Ministers' proposal, then the debate until the election is a legitimate debate and it's not politicisation, because it's a matter of our choice. We can choose and we don't have to choose, because we choose, others suggest. But generally speaking, I think, colleague Dokić, that it is not on your side until the end correct when you call this politicization, and you will not, or at least you did not find it appropriate, to go back just one step and then one situation, which obviously is politicization and an attempt at political interference in the work of an independent Regulatory Agency, do not call it politicization. The Board of Regulators of the Regulatory Agency a few years ago, now we can talk about years ago, has implemented all the legally prescribed procedure and... has chosen a man and appointed. The Council of Ministers should only give consent to this or not, given the legal position of the Regulatory Agency, its independence. The Council of Ministers may say: I give consent or do not give consent, because you and those prescribed terms or procedures are not respected. We have 102 simply refusing the Council of Ministers to accept this elected candidate without any explanation and then it is not called politicisation. And it's not impossible these two things, or it's not possible to connect these two things. They have to connect. That's where the problem arises. And I wasn't here in the O.R., but one of my colleagues, I think Mr. Nanić, I think he said the right thing and I agree completely with him. So this is all expensive, when it was seen to be a stalemate, it was all towed until it came to a new council, so when the new council comes, then the new council will finish the job. We recognize that. And, let me tell you one more thing, BiH is a multiethnic country. It is known that, according to which criteria in the multiethnic country, people who are responsible and are in charge are elected in BiH. So we know there must be an appropriate ethnic balance in BiH. Here in this case, neither does it want to respect this criterion of expertise nor does it want to respect what once happened when negotiated, when it comes to ethnic balance. It is possible in this country to select the best experts and satisfy this principle of representation as prescribed by the BiH Constitution. These are sensitive things, so don't expect from the SDA or anyone here in Parliament that we just look at someone, in a situation where there's obvious imbalances at the expense of Bošnjak, that all the analyses have shown to me that just as someone who is at the head of an institution, where the Bošnjak was so far, it's obvious that someone else is trying to get through.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28394	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28395	We just on this thing, on this, and that's the point that we have to talk about it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28396	The chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28397	Gentlemen chairing, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished ministers, guests, in fact, I have been thinking whether it makes sense for me to get involved in this debate, but since it mentions the Council of Ministers, since I mention myself personally, I thought, above all, that I should thank my colleague Lozančić for the discussion. The Council of Ministers, everything they've done, has done unanimously, both the first and second decisions. We received 14 names in accordance with the law and unanimously forwarded seven names to Parliament. You can confirm that, you can refuse, so use your rights, no problem. So, we didn't have that pain I see today about the candidates. So the fact that it's the product of a unanimous decision by the Council of Ministers, that now, and that can happen. Also, when we had a choice of directors, I have to tell you, things aren't as simple as that, but also a unanimous decision by the Council of Ministers. We didn't dispute the name of the man. And I don't want to bother you about what happened next as part of the political aglomerate that exists in BiH. But I ask you, just what my colleague Lozančić said, help the Council of Ministers - either accept, or reject the decision, or make a decision that is better than that, but we didn't have those problems that are imputing to us, so we didn't have 103. We unanimously made a decision. You asked, you'll give us back the laws to send them by consensus. That's what we do. You bring back those who have adopted by consensus, and that's what we do. So, I'm afraid we don't understand each other, or we don't want to get along. Another thank you to my colleague Lozančić. I think he's absolutely right. I don't want to defend the Council of Ministers, but it's up to you to make or reject a decision. No problem, we'll work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28398	Wait a minute, so we're going back to the replicas. Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28399	Thank you. Here,...the chairman thanks my colleague Lozančić a few times. You've got a reason. I'll be as direct as I've always been. A six-way deal in Laktas has leaked news in the media, Dodik–Čović, that the future director of RAK should be a Hrvat, Bošnjak should be president of the RAK Council. That's the script, the director, the lead actors are famous. Now, that's the discussion I saw everything in this... how it went faster. And, colleague Lozančić teaches us how we should work at the Transport and Communications Commission, teaches us to do wrong. Our last meeting of the Transport and Communications Commission had a agenda point to show about the appointment of the Director of the RAC. So, the last one. And the Commission's conclusion adopted said that authentic interpretation should be required from the Constitutional Legal Commission on appointments. So that's this conclusion. And someone before that pushes us to appoint a new RAC Council? He obviously wants to stop this process, get back to the beginning, and name what he's already planned somewhere behind the scenes. It's a game. It's such a transparent game that then it's clear to everyone here. My colleague Lozančić, I understand that too. That's why fellow Špirić is so praised, because that's the game, the script, your president, our director, and the Bošnjak is nowhere to be found, like this... That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28400	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28401	Here you go. It'll be a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28402	I'll try, of course, not to give a sound. God Bog there's any deal. Then we'd have a solution. So, the problem with this country is that the deal doesn't exist. And I must say that at that meeting he was the leader of your political party. So there were six leaders and they didn't agree. And I think this country is stifled by some visions of a deal. I need a deal, as chairman. And I'm calling people these days: let's make arrangements to make a solution. Without a deal, you too have a problem in Parliament. So it's not. I've never heard of such a kind of 104 deal. So, I don't know about the deal, and I wish there was any agreement that creates the possibility that we too work at the Council of Ministers, and so do you in Parliament. So there's no deal, and I'd like the deal to exist, which would produce a paralyming majority. Thank you very much. And I, congratulating the dignity of all people, did not thank Lozančić for defending the Council of Ministers, but rather for saying one fundamental truth. So we're in accordance with the 14-name law that we got, I believe I don't know these people, suggested seven, which is a legal obligation. The Parlement should therefore confirm them or say there are better ones or return them to the Council of Ministers. But by keeping it here, we're gonna lose time. He's right, colleague Lozančić, the deadline is up. And then we'll get complaints from international institutions that monitor the work. And we only add too much politics and bile. So, in that sense, I beg you to make a decision. And by the law, whenever you can't make a move, knock down the law, bring it back, let's work. The worst thing is if it's been standing for half a year, or a year, we don't know what's waiting. We can't compromise when we're unanimous, bigger than that. No Niko did. No one was against it. Well, I'd love it if there was someone who could deny me. So no one in the Council of Ministers was against this decision. I don't know what kind of decision you can expect from the Council of Ministers yet? If only someone had challenged it, so to speak, there's a political option that slows it down. And here, I am obliged to convey the truth, not defend it as an ideal attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28403	Let's move on with the replicas. Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28404	I'll use the right to this second replica of mine. In fact, I've listened to this demagogy. It's been two years, not to say, this tape about the re-election of the Director-General of RAK, and the biggest political interference is precisely by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Why am I saying that? The procedure implemented in accordance with the law, the Agency's Council, in which it has unanimously elected Mr Huseinović as the Director General of the RAC. The Council of Ministers has neither confirmed nor refused, but you know how it is said in Bosnia. Therefore, complete the procedure, you have not completed the procedure. And my replica refers to Mr. Lozančić. You gave us a lecture here as... It's a traffic commission. Now, who asked you to choose the Director General of the RAC in the first place? And I could ask you the same thing, because I asked you once already in writing, you from the Joint College of both homes: who asked you to give an opinion at all about the selection of the Director General of the RAC. And you delivered Opinion without a single Bošnjak from any home, from any college. Excuse me, who asked you about this, based on which member of the Rules of Procedure? So don't think we're fools and we don't see these things. If there's anything behind the back, behind the scenes, here you go, say it here. So it's okay that there's a political agreement. There, you may need to be a Hrvat at the head of the RAK, but one who applied for the candidate is Huseinović and you do not want to confirm it because 105 is not Hrvat. Well, that's not the way it is, my people. So if you're talking about the absence of political interference, then finish the job. And this gesture of ours is, in a way, saving things. And don't convince us that something is right that you think is right. So if you'd acted as a Joint College the way you lectured us, I'd say today, you're right, Mr. Lozančić, here's the commission that made a mistake. But the Commission has the right to confirm the list, reject the list, or here, to propose to the House to postpone the plea, which is the easiest form. There were more radical demands by Mr. Bahtić to reject the list, so that the Council of Ministers could return, so that the Council of Ministers could deliver new seven members, those they thought were less valuable than the seven they had proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28405	Let's move on with the replicas. Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28406	I thank you, Chairman. What I want to replicate, Mr. Lozančić's presentation and part of the prime minister's presentation, is that the findings here are that there is no connection to the appointment of the RAC Council with the appointment of the Director of the RAC – it absolutely has to do with it. And that's one institution, and it has to do with it, and that's why it's been standing for two years and not naming the Regulatory Agency. The same thing that the chairman of the Council of Ministers said was a unanimous decision taken at the Council of Ministers, also the RAC Council unanimously decided that it was the best candidate, to meet all conditions, the candidate who had passed the procedure, the public competition and the rest, and delivered to the Council of Ministers for Understanding. The Council of Ministers, I would understand, indeed, if it had said that the candidate did not meet and give an explanation, but no, the Council of Ministers did not discuss it, it did not make a decision. I don't think any other conclusion of this kind has been made by the Council of Ministers. The conclusion is that the Council of Ministers has not made a decision on the candidate. And that leaves two years of politicizing space. Why is this relevant and why have we made such a decision on the Commission? We discussed, the special agenda was because of the situation as it is, the procedures. And in the end, we are to save the situation, on the contrary, Mr. Dokić, to save the situation we said nothing at the candidate session. There was an attempt to discuss the candidates, we didn't discuss the candidates, we didn't say anything, we didn't say anything, we didn't say anything, we didn't say anything, we didn't say anything, we didn't say anything, we didn't know who was satisfying, we didn't meet. We didn't want to discuss names. To save the situation, we said to postpone until this situation was resolved. And I think it's a completely legitimate request and the Commission's conclusion, and I think it's only right and that it will ensure that this procedure continues to end as the law predicted.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28407	No Niko's Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28408	Thank you, Mr. President. 106 I must say that I am honored with this number of replicas on this exhibit of mine, and that only convinces me that I am even more right than the chairman of the Council of Ministers thinks I am right. Thank you, Mr. President, for the correct assessment. I think a proper relationship with the Council of Ministers is necessary, I had no intention of anything else. There could be a lot of comment here from the presentation of my predecessors and I really, really, here and recorded it, and now I'm thinking whether or not I'm still thinking about whether and how to put it all in a position, of being a multiethnic education, that it's a multiethnic country. Yeah, we know that she's very ethnic, but it would be interesting to see if this decision of the Communications Committee has been made mutantally. If that's multiethnic, then it's principled, Mr. Mehmedović, it's an honor. But don't call on multiethnicity just sometimes. I agree, I am so that we always call on it and always on every occasion take care of it and not use those instruments and all the barbeque fire when at all costs it is necessary to ensure that my candidate is somewhere because here is my ethnicity by chance. I had no intention of educating anyone here, because there was an observation that I had educated someone, that I was teaching someone, that there was even such insinuation as if I thought some fool was here. I didn't mean to. But I don't want anyone to make a fool of me. I didn't think he was a fool at all. If I thought so, I'd say so. You know I say what I mean. But the fact that the Committee under the agenda Confirmation of the appointment of the RAC Council has not been done at all since we do not have this in the Report of the Commission. I'm just finding that out, which is what your report says. I didn't write it. That's what you wrote. You're saying yourself that you weren't even dealing with what was on your agenda, but you were doing what wasn't on your agenda then, and now it's my fault to tell you. You're asking us not to make a statement about this, even though the law obliges us to plead. I have not said at all that this decision should be confirmed, it is a matter of everyone's individual will here in this House and let each one decide on his own conscience whether to give support or refuse this decision. So, the Council of Ministers will probably, depending on the result, lead further activities; if we refuse, re-implement the procedure, seek, re-deliver the solution etc. But postponing forever, I don't see what it is, I don't really see it. And please, it means you're not putting in my mouth what I would never say, and I didn't say it in particular, so you're making sure that we're not fools and that we know exactly what's behind all this. If there were any arrangements, I think the president has already responded, we would have made much faster progress in many of our wishes, but unfortunately, there is much more misunderstandings and looking for ways to make no deal about something that exists. Unfortunately, it seems to me that in this House, in this country, there are at this moment more politically those who are not in favour of any agreement, than those who are in favour of agreement. I'm sorry, I just can't change it. I invite all of you together to make more arrangements and to honor those who agree. It's the only way this country goes forward. I call once again, because it is on the agenda, to make clear what has been delivered to us by the Council of Ministers, and as anyone will plead, it is his free will. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28409	I have a whole list of replicas. I really don't know what contribution we're making to this whole thing at all, it's very simple. Through a statement, we will express our relationship. But here we go in a row, we can go on forever. Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28410	Well, you see, I've heard here from colleagues in Bahtić some kind of variant that the Constitutional Commission should now give authentic interpretation of something and then enter the election process. You see, if that's true what I heard, then we know that the process of authentic interpretation lasts for months and months and that it's never finished, at least half a year ago, even for years. Yes, my colleague, but here, at best, it's half a year, which will say that half a year we won't have this body, at least half a year, which is more than clear, so nobody actually wants to. Or colleagues who are against this choice do not want to change the old calling of the Board of Regulators and the old director and there is no better way to keep the old one by not allowing the choice of new ones. And I guess that's clear to everyone, at least to me. I didn't think so far, and now it seems clear to me. Of course, counterpart Bahtić said a lot more, which is not worth it, in his discussion, when he was talking about candidates. But here, so it's not possible to go to the variant of authentic interpretation unless it's not a choice. As far as I'm concerned, I'm comfortable with both choice and failure. As far as those emitters are concerned, they'd be best off having no RAC because he eats them and what little money they can make. Because they still take taxes, and they're very good at taking taxes, and we didn't put them on the SDA proposal on that payroll, so they can do it as they please. We have to allow, of course, these colleagues and decide and spin them and advise them as they please, and I think it's like this one agency that's definitely taken from us and we certainly don't have any influence on it, so I can't see with it that we're going to have it, unless colleagues who don't want a choice already don't have that influence.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28411	I regret to inform Mr Dokić and Mr Mehmedović that they have spent their replicas. You've spent your lines.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28412	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28413	Here's the wrong quote. I mean, of course, we need to do everything we can to waste our time and not do anything about the work that's ahead of us today. Go ahead, blame the quote. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28414	Well, I wish we weren't wasting our time, but here I am going to fit in with that loss of time. First, it is entirely guilty of saying that at any meeting that six leaders spoke and who would be chairman of the Regulatory Agency's Council, because if such an agreement were, Slobodan Bošković would not have been elected. And I want to tell you that the list of 14 candidates has been building the current Board of Regulatory Agency in which you have so much trust. Secondly, the guilty allegation is... and on the matter of what the Board of Regulatory Agency chooses to chair itself when elected. So no one can put it in advance. And thirdly, what is presented today on this issue is an indirect accusation of the current Board of Regulatory Agency. This wants to preserve the status quo, because how else to interpret the fact that you know in advance that the other Board of Regulatory Agency chosen will again, I say, make a different decision from the existing one, already concerned about preserving what you think and in your opinion that defends the current position and defends the Director, not defending the Director, not defending the Director or defending the institution of the RAC – both are against them. And that against them is also the fact that you insist on keeping the current Board of Regulatory Agency in advance already seeing that another convocation, which has been chosen by the RAC Council, has chosen 14 out of 40 and several, you know well – so this is their choice. And I really don't know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28415	Milorad Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28416	I'm open to all options, we can break up and move on, take a break. Namely, there were several false allegations. Mr. Mehmedović, an esteemed colleague spoke of some demagogy. First of all, no answer has been given regarding our opinion. We gave our opinion because the Council of Ministers asked us for an opinion. And the Joint College is in line with the Rules of Procedure that you insisted on the High Representative's intention to bring in what he brought about the blockade of some institutions and work – looking for such a way to work. So it just comes back as a boomerang of what you're talking about, you know, because everything was in line with the Rules of Procedure. So, when you talk about demagogy, then the word Mr Špirić, chairman of the Council of Ministers, said that a decision was unanimously taken – who is then demagogue in this Council of Ministers? Is it the chairman of either the entire Council of Ministers or only those who you think are demagogues? And when we talk about the national schedule, and we're going to end this story once we get it, but real, when we get the information on who's where it's deployed. And you'll see that even in that story, the Bošnjak, who say they're constantly cut off, they're wrong and you can't ask us for that story anymore and think we want to cheat on you. That's just not true. As we have proven, it is not true with the institutions that are all gathered here in Sarajevo, it is also not true that you are suspended in connection with the deployment of management posts in all institutions. 109 And of course, we from the SNSD have never reported here for discussion, we are not at all satisfied with the work of the Board of Regulatory Agency and the way people of them came, as far as they applied, 14 on the list. We thought that many of them had been taken off at all. That for formal reasons, it is said, cannot be considered, which was contrary to the law. And we haven't made a problem out of it, and you're making a problem out of it. And in the end, we have two sides. One, which says this should be done because the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the law, has put this session on the agenda, we as Parliament must be determined accordingly, and those who call on the Council of Ministers not to place the appointment of the Director of the RAC, are calling on this Parliament to work in the same way, that they also do not put what is our legal duty to this point of the agenda. Well, at least be correct about that. Then either do what the Council of Ministers does or do what Parliament needs to do in accordance with the law. Let's put this to a vote, if it doesn't pass, my Bog, we'll make a new list.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28417	What am I going to do? There's nothing left for me to do but tell the treasure to the peoples when we're there again, you don't have to worry about. So, Šemsudin Mehmedović fired, twice you've replicated.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28418	Wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28419	Wrong quote, here you go, here you go, twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28420	Very short.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28421	We have some conditions for liberalisation, etc. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28422	Okay. Well, here's the guilty quote from Mr. Lozančić. I didn't even mention that multiethnic composition, because I didn't talk about it at all, nor did I say that you as a Joint College did anything that was contrary to the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are what they are, and whoever forced them, and in what way, that's the second question. But demagogy by the chairman of the Council of Ministers is. He assures us here that the Council of Ministers has decided something unanimously. And when the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers Tarik Sadović opposes or raises his opinion or opposes it, Tarik Sadović should be done through the international community. Here, congratulations, you did it. So it's demagogy, it's demagogy. And today we have it on the agenda. Thank you very much. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28423	Let's move on, Sadik.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28424	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28425	Here you go. Here, let's waste our time on the story.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28426	Please nice, the public works, I'm a man who wants to be correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28427	Wait a minute, please listen to each other, please. Mr. Dokić, take your place.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28428	I don't think debates like this are good for our European path, unfortunately. Don't be angry with the MPs, I won't tell you that, but it doesn't matter. So Tarik Sadović's shift asked for the SDA.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28429	So we have a agenda, a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28430	I beg you, it is unfair, so I as chairman, you will see when we speak, and I will say my position, of course as chairman, and you will be able to state your position. But I beg you, it is not correct to tell the public that I asked for Tarik's shift through the international community, and the request was filed by the party you belong to. I don't think that's correct and I can't react differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28431	Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28432	I'll do it for a while. Well, the Council of Ministers has adopted the X-Law unanimously so far
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28433	Can I have your patience, please? 111
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28434	and these laws were one of the preconditions for a European road trip, so the commissions did not give consent to this parliament, and we know who blocked it. Also, counterpart Lozančić said what the multiethnic assembly of this existing RAC Council is now like. As far as I know, the chairman of the RAK Council is Hrvat's Neven Tomić and now. Is he...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28435	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28436	No, you said what the composition is now. A colleague, Novaković, shows.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28437	Wait a minute, wait a minute, Mr. Bahtić. Mr. Novaković, you say the fourth line, right, what is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28438	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28439	You're right, you're right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28440	Thank you, I'm done.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28441	Sadik Ahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28442	I think we're in one situation where we're going to find it very difficult to agree, because in many of these agencies, the mandates are being highlighted, and I think there's some kind of agreement that we should finally round up and name all those whose mandates stand out. But what I must replicate as the chairman of the Council of Ministers when it comes to principles, when he says the Council of Ministers unanimously sends the law, it is up to Parliament to adopt or reject it. If that principle had been and the Board for Regulatory Agency had unanimously proposed the Director, and only if that principle had been applied by Mr Špirić, we would not be in this situation right now. I'm sure we wouldn't be in this situation. So I think that, when it comes to principles, we should carry them out in every place. 112 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28443	Here, a little attention. Here's the end. What is this now, Mr. Križanović, you've been on the lines, so?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28444	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28445	Me, you can do both. Here, half an hour is yours, half an hour is yours.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28446	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I won't abuse this time and I won't be longer than three minutes. I want to say that we actually have a sad fact that we have the choice and appointment of directors of boards, councils, etc. They're getting kind of more difficult to process than just passing the law. It really suggests that we have a very difficult political situation in the country and that through this, let me say, in a way, they do and... some political bickering. You see, the selection of directors of the Directorate for European Integration also takes almost a year. Well, then you have police bodies that, here, have been on the pier for over a year since the law was passed, we haven't yet completed them. Here's this CRA, so we have the Directorate for indirect taxation and director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, etc. So it is a really confusing situation in the ruling parliamentary majority. I wanted to replicate one thing to my colleague Lozančić. You see, it can't be normal that it's not the problem of this home or its respective commission that's not being elected by the Director of RAC. Of course it's a home too. And, no matter how the Commission made this report, today it would be a question of why it is stalling. So what do we have here today? We have a report from the Commission, as it is, which states that they have not considered the list of candidates for the Council at all. So we have, in a way, unfulfilled business preconditions that today and we solve it and we finish the job. And instead of joining us at the beginning with that fact to accept the Commission's proposal, whether we're satisfied or not, but she didn't do the job. So, I believe, so colleagues are thinking, that today we can't finish this job and the least we can say is let's leave time until the next... session, as the Commission has suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28447	Here I was going to finish, but I have more replicas. He's giving up. Thank you. So I'm closing the debate on point 18. Moving to point 19. 113 Ad. 19. Appointment of the President, Vice-President and members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as Independent Authorities of BiH Police Structure The proposal is from the Ad hoc Joint Commission for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Board of Appeals. Not to remind you, you know, we're late, here we have today finally this proposal. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28451	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, the legal basis for adopting a Decision on discharge from the post of Minister of Security and Deputy Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers of BiH is contained in Article 15. A law on the Council of Ministers of BiH that determines that the chairman of the Council of Ministers can launch a vice-session for the replacement of ministers or deputy ministers. 114 The reason for the shift is the SDA's request, which was sent to the chairman of the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2009, which said the SDA presidency decided to launch an initiative to replace Tarik Sadović. The letter, which I cited, lists the reasons why the SDA is asking to replace counterpart Tarik Sadović. I have to say that I appreciate all the parties in this House and I think that the SDA is a serious political party and I have to say that the reasons I've read, that I'm not talking about my inability to change the council of ministers at all, you know that it's been done four times so far. Once, because the minister has left for second post; secondly, at the request of the PDP; thirdly, HDZ 1990 is working to elect a new minister; and now at SDA's request. So, reading the reasons why the SDA is looking for a shift, I don't think it required a single second of delay in my reaction, which is why, esteeming the dignity and political parties and candidates, or Sadović's minister, I have done so in this way and these days persistently avoided the answers, calls to my phone numbers, so that I don't create any additional confusion, because I think everyone's height should be protected. I don't want to talk about my options in the Council of Ministers, as far as I can improve the processes, etc., but if I didn't consider it necessary or you didn't ask me to give you the views of the political parties that asked for a shift, or the PDP when they were deputy ministers, I did the same thing because I hold the same thing to all the political parties. If Parliament asks and declares to provide you with these reasons, it is ready in two minutes to be delivered to you, but I ask you today, so once again I ask this Parliament, so I think, when these reasons are read, that it speaks of the seriousness of the political party. Many will interpret it in a different way. Those who asked for additional material to be delivered today are not more friends of their colleagues to Sadović, that is what I want to say than the SDA. And I'd like to pray so today that you decide... which way we're going to work. So the reasons I got didn't leave me calm so I wouldn't initiate the procedure. And even if they weren't so serious, I would have acted in accordance with the SDA's request, because it makes up the parliamentary majority and the pillar is the parliamentary majority. Thank you very much. So I have heard that there are requirements; if Parliament declares itself, in two minutes you can have it on the table, but I must say that what has come to me also has the president of the club (if so, at least it writes to me) the SDA that launched the initiative. No matter who you get from, I ask you to keep your dignity in the debate, both Parliament and colleagues of Sadović. We worked for three years, it wasn't easy, I wish there was more understanding, I have to say in the end. I told my colleague Sadović, Minister, that I was his friend and that we had to compromise and negotiate. Unfortunately, I also had a group meeting today, an expert visa liberalisation group. I wish that you as MPs were sitting there to see in what way, not perhaps by the wish of counterpart Tarik Sadović, but simply we must respond to the challenges. So, when it comes to police agencies, bodies, etc. how they see their ability to meet their obligations, etc. So, I can, I won't deliberately... If you want me to read what it says, you tell me and I'll read it to you. But then, here, if you're asking him to split up, let him split up. I don't think we should do it that way today, let's stick to what we've been doing so far, I think we'll do the best possible thing – preserve the dignity of all of us in the process. But I think after these reasons it's no help to a colleague of Sadović to discuss this for two hours today, and that we have these reasons on paper. Thank you. 115
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28452	Here, you heard the chairman and one recommendation, i.e. a request, to my colleagues from the club: that the vice-chair club Suljkanović on behalf of the club speaks, there is no need for three of you to speak. But here, make up your mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28453	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Party for BiH Club, I would like to express our position on the decision to replace BiH Security Minister Mr Sadović. We at the club support the consideration of the work of every minister of all ministries, but we have already announced our position on this issue and announced that we will not support this decision for the simple reason that we believe that in the reasons for making such a decision, which Mr Špirić spoke to us about, I think, in our opinion, in the view of the club, that these reasons are not mentioned here. And because of the fact that we don't have adequate reasons, we present our position and announce that we won't support this shift decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28454	Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28455	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Council of Ministers, I would like to ask just one question to Mr. President of the Council of Ministers. When he was an MP, would he ever accept this kind of communication between the Prime Minister and Parliament? This decision without an explanation of the real one is disastrous. I know as well as anyone that there are three actors in setting up a minister and so on. And it's the right of the party to make her apply for a shift, and I'm not going in there. Any party can do that. But when the president accepts the party's advice or request, he must explain why he accepted it. He cannot write in an explanation to Parliament, as he says, ‘for the sake of the letter of the SDA, I have accepted this decision’. These are inappropriate relations between the chairman and Parliament for me, and I think that the third actor, and the third actor is actually a Parliament that decides and confirms that decision, so, among other things, not every MP can decide and cannot be avoided from having a desk or oral or written reason for changing a particular minister. And for that reason I as an individual, and you heard my party's position, I will never plead for anyone's shift or setting someone up unless there's a certain explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28456	The chairman of the Council of Ministers. 116
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28457	Ladies and gentlemen, I, what is not my intention, and... I seek in this way to act before Parliament, to try to calm or argue political parties, and I will never do it here because I would not help myself in the work of the Council of Ministers. That it does not turn out here, so Nikola Špirić does not want to talk about the reasons, so I am telling you that I have accepted the reasons for the strongest parliamentary party. Is there another rational way out? And I'm asking you if you want to hear those reasons. [[Common discussion]] But it has to be Parliament's decision. I don't want you to have to. So, you're looking for them, you'll get them in two minutes, if that's Parliament's position. If that's not Parliament's position, I can't give you the correspondence I have. But then, I said I'd like you to have reasons, and I'd like you to read those reasons to become the chairman of the Council of Ministers. You know that I, as chairman, cannot replace any minister. You might think I asked for a shift of any kind of debate. We'd stay for two months, none would be removed. Right? And why would I do that job? But if he's looking for someone and I appreciate the seriousness of the political party here, I don't think it's a weakness, no matter what my colleague I've been sitting with for three years, three years and working with. But if it's Parliament's request to win, and it wouldn't be good, of course, after this session, the public will probably have these materials, because they didn't come to me alone, but I wanted to keep my dignity and, otherwise, while I'm doing this job, I'll keep it safe. If Parliament asks, votes, okay, in two minutes you'll have and then you can... talk. I can also read it to you, because I accepted those reasons as valid for my move and please don't say here we will because we have no reason. The reasons exist, the reasons exist because the most serious political party, which makes the pillar here, launched the initiative, and not the minister from the other political party, but from its own. And I think here you should get out of this day-to-day relationship policy between parties and I ask you to avoid it in this case too, because I don't believe that what you think will be help and will prove to be help. And that's why I wanted to speak in this way, and if you vote to share the reasons that I accepted, no problem at all, I only took advantage of the procedure of the member who gave me that opportunity.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28459	Leave it to me, Mr. Špirić, to run the session. So it's not about the vote, nor who asked, no one's asking for your correspondence with the parties, etc., it's just that it's said and I'm saying that this argument is insufficient. And you can judge whether you're going to give further reasons or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28460	No microphone 117 is included
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28461	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28462	I'm sorry, I'm back because I feel like I'm on a wallpaper. I'll tell you the reasons the SDA, the chairmanship of this party says. He says, therefore, the reasons concern a wide range of problems in the work and functioning of the Ministry of Security: obstruction and violation and subsequent adoption of the Law on residence and movement of foreign citizens and asylum in accordance with Schengen standards; functioning of the Ministry mainly by ethnic, not formal and command lines; proposing a Regulation on the internal organisation of the Ministry of Interior which unnecessarily replicates the work of SIPA, the Border Police, Foreign Affairs Service; underestimating the role of the Council of Ministers; challenging the mandate of the EU Police Mission in relation to the BiH Ministry of Security. It is concluded that all of this but also a number of other failures by the minister have a negative impact on efforts to apply and improve the rule of law in our country. Because of all this, in the 2008 State Department Annual Report, Minister Sadović was qualified as a politician and braker of law enforcement in the field of combating terrorism, etc. And if you were me, as chairman, I'd ask you what kind of behavior would be. That's why I said today: I think this is the way the party works, the serious way, and I think it would be good for other political parties to show that kind of seriousness, even though it's about the man I've been working with for three years. And I think this is the first time I've seen serious political work, not that we're saying now, come on, we're going to give hands or we're not going to give hands. What's the state's help? In that sense, I think this is the serious behavior of a political party, and that's why I was saying I could share it. But these are the reasons for me being able to run it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28463	Business intervention, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28464	Thank you, Chairman. Since we've learned that this correspondence is only on one piece of paper, that it's not an official secret, that we've heard here from the chairman's council of ministers one part of what's written here and that after that, etc., I suggest we take a five-minute break, get that paper and consider what's there.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28465	I think that's okay. Five minutes break. Please sit down and keep working. Take your seats. Let's go to replicas: Momčilo Novaković, Vinko Zorić. Of course, I'll make it happen later. Jozo Križanović, discussion. Here you go, Jozo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28467	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I'm thinking whether this discussion is making sense now, because you see, my discussion was actually focused on this problem of formulating a decision to replace Mr. Chairman's security minister. I can accept that the chairman has confidence, respects the political party in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I assume that he respects everyone, not just this one, to respect the reasons for launching this initiative, but the form of the decision itself is insufficient. Because it is explained that the chairman accepted the reasons set out in the letter from the SDA. And you see, we're being asked to plead whether or not we accept it, and we don't know anything about those reasons. So we've been brought into one position very delicately that we believe fully the SDA and the chairman who believes the SDA. So, we didn't have any official documents to make a commitment to accepting or refusing the minister's shift. The reasons that we haven't yet, the right to tell you, haven't even been able to read, but they're very difficult qualifications, you know. It says here that objections have begun to work on Minister Sadović's work several months after he was elected, set up as minister. And then you wait a year and something, so almost two, yeah, and then you start a shift initiative. Of course, we cannot be satisfied with the work of the Ministry of Security, as we are not satisfied with many other ministries. And it is a pity that instead of making one serious analysis, which is why the problems of the Council of Ministers' work, what are the problems in making decisions of the Council of Ministers, in policy making, in preparing reform laws, appointments, here, as we just saw, etc. – this is, however, accessing fire and this is, I don't know, the fifth shift in the Council of Ministers. So we can't be against this either, we're not honestly convinced of the reasons for these shifts, and most importantly, we're not convinced that Mr. Sadović's shift will make something more important change in the quality of the Council of Ministers' work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28468	I am obliged to provide replicas to Mr. Novaković and Mr. Zorić. Here you go, Mr. Novaković. He gave up. Mr. Zorić, you gave up. We're going to a registered debate. Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28469	Gentlemen, co-chairs and colleagues, distinguished guests, have no doubt, following the European Commission's announcement, that BiH is not among the countries that have met the conditions for abolishing the visa regime with EU countries. The humiliation and violation of the elementary rights of 119 BiH citizens were continued, but now we are both ultimately disgraced and humiliated, both as a state and as a government, and on any other basis. The greatest responsibility certainly for the humiliation and shame experienced by the current parliamentary majority in BiH that failed to meet the EU's set conditions, nor those set out in the visa liberalisation map on its own. Attempts of justification in front of citizens and the public, as it is reportedly a blow to Bosniaks in BiH and the like, are stories for small children, not something that can serve anyone as an excuse and a washing of responsibility and shame in front of citizens and the public. The fact is that BiH has failed to meet the conditions set and accepted, there is no objective reason why the conditions are not met, and that therefore the current authority in BiH is responsible, and everything else is eye caressing. After the announcement that BiH had not qualified to lift visas, but that a European black hole remained in society with Albania and Kosovo, I, as a man, expected at least one of those who were directly responsible for expensive courage and resigned, but unfortunately, it was missing. The attempts by some colleagues to announce the return of diplomatic passports show solidarity with the humiliation of BiH citizens are also hypocritical and represent only a cheap political stunt, and cannot possibly be a moral act. I think that instead of an initiative to return diplomatic passports in this case, a much more moral and normal initiative would be an initiative to replace the Council of Ministers or at least those members of the Council of Ministers who are apparently responsible for non-compliance with BiH's visa waiver requirements. Today on the agenda, we have one, at least, tragic situation: that a party in the parliamentary majority has suddenly developed a conscience and replaced the Minister of Security Sadović, putting it on its back, most of the way, the burden of responsibility for non-execution of the visa regime; as far as I was able to read these arguments quickly, that is exactly what it is. Here remains a rational question: were they blind and blind until yesterday so they did not see and hear that Minister Sadović, I will say freely, strayed into the Council of Ministers at the place of the Minister of Security and should someone have opened their eyes and washed their ears to see and hear it? The Council of Ministers has the greatest responsibility for failing to meet BiH's requirements for visa waiver with EU countries and for the consequences of that, and it is not a small responsibility nor of Minister Sadović, but it is not the only one responsible and cannot wash his shift from the responsibility of the Council of Ministers or those who have run and appointed Sadović and others in these places. The Council of Ministers, no doubt, is operating today as an unsettled radio and Sadović has been an important link to the Council of Ministers' functioning, and so have we in this home and the public had the opportunity to see and feel within these two and a half years how much the Council of Ministers has functioned. As a member of the Council of Ministers' Selection Commission, I have just asked Mr Sadović: does he feel that as an architect he has any idea of being a quality minister of security of the state? Although this is not entirely quantifiable, he replied that architects are builders and that there is much to be built in this country. Of course, it was such a nice response at the time, but as Sadović built as an architect, I was not familiar with it, but as the architect built as the minister of security of BiH, we saw and felt well. As an MP today, I will not vote for the shift or resolution of Minister Sadović, not because I believe Sadović was or could be a good security minister, but for three basic reasons. First of all, it's not principled that I vote for the shift of someone I didn't happily choose, and I didn't vote for his appointment. Secondly, I do not accept that Sadović will be the scapegoat for failing to meet the conditions for visa waiver for BiH citizens, when it is clear that he is not the only 120 culprit for this. And the third, of course, I do not accept that by voting to replace Minister Sadović, I take part in the laundry of the responsibility and those who have proposed and appointed Sadović, because they, in my opinion, are the greater culprits and more responsible than Sadović in this case. So it is clear that Minister Sadović and this Council of Ministers cannot take us further from society with Albania and Kosovo, but at this point I believe that this can only be changed by changing the Council of Ministers and by changing the concept on which this authority works, rather than by changing Mr Sadović and the political facades that are trying to counter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28470	Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28471	I'll try to be brief, too. I'm glad we got this paper so we can make fairer judgment. As far as I'm concerned, I really don't have a dilemma whether I'm going to vote against or not, but I'm going to support this sentence that I just heard: that she's finally worked out her conscience and I expect at least five other ministers to be replaced, because that's the state of affairs. And only then would it be realistic to say: we, because of what we did in the previous period, submit this report and we can say that we are changing. This, I join, is just a scapegoat, as my colleague said, Mr. Sadović. And as for his work here, it turned out, in this letter, that we would not speak now, here's the opposition here, meaning by ethnic principle, miss out, miss out, and all that further, as can be said for all the other ministries. What's especially the problem is that we're discussing, meaning shifts, and this shift, I think most people in position will think they've done the job and that the peoples of the international community have said, look, we're doing something, we're changing and we're moving on. The question is why are we now saying that there's been a break, that we haven't received a donation in millions of dollars, that's one thing. Why have some ministers and deputy ministers told us in the spring that the crisis is around us, and now we see that the crisis is hitting our ears; when they tell us that in October, then we will change one more, and the agony will continue. And why now do we have to go to the IMF for a ugly racket that maybe our kids won't be able to come back? That's proof of our economy, when we could have made donations and we should have done something. That's the problem, gentlemen. And that's why I think, I only answered, I expect that the conscience will work with other parties and say, really, these people are not capable, they can't answer the time and the moment, let them resign, we'll look for others. And that's the best way and way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28472	Branko Dokić. 121
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28473	Mr. Chairman, I think we're specialists to make a problem out of something expected, which in the normal world is meant to be. It seems to me that there are strong forces in this country, whose motto is the worse, the better. I don't think I'm saying this by chance, I'm only saying in the context of this question that it's about to show that nothing can work in this country, that nothing can work and that it's based on this principle, that it's building up some future strategy on state relations arrangements, etc. Don't you think in a normal parliament, I have to say this, because obviously this parliament is not like that, in a normal parliament when an initiative for the replacement of ministers for whom, here, and his party says that it is the most responsible because BiH, as my colleague Dolić said earlier, remains in the same package with Albania in this rest of Europe, is it not normal to welcome it and to accept and show to future ministers who bring us into this situation that will experience the same fate. We seem to be more comfortable with someone here crying because we're not in a package with our environment, which I regret, I'm very sorry, and they're looking for reasons on the other side entirely. They are looking for culprits in Srbin and Hrvat who will rush, as said here in Sarajevo, to accept the passports of our neighbouring states, to travel, and here Bošnjak are being brought to be in a special ghetto. And when one party sees that her minister is one of the key culprits for which we have reached that position, then there are all sorts of questions about principledity and undisciplinedness, whether each member is respected, etc. I'm telling you, dear friends, I don't understand. This is something that one day – whoever deals with the analysis of our relationships, the decision-making process – will have creamworth and also for some master's and doctoral thesis, have quite enough material. I just want to remind you of what we had before, I think, two or three months ago, here, when there were two deputy ministers from the party that I belonged to, for which the chairman asked to be relieved of his duties. Right away, I was against such a decision by the Party of Democratic Progress but it was voted and I was obliged to respect it. Some of my colleagues here have asked me if they should vote in favour of the minister's proposal, or the chairman's council of ministers or not. I said, well, of course you'll vote, that's what the party asked for, that's her right. As an integral part of this congregation's majority by that time, she decided to come out and logically and I voted "yes". But what do we want now? What kind of a majority are we talking about? If the party, which is even the biggest one, asks the chairman of these arguments, I will not repeat them, but they are devastating, those who swear to European integration do not respect the fact that the party that has appointed and held a minister realizes that he is almost, here, quoting: he almost interrupted communication with the European Commission. Then what are we talking about? What do we want? Who is this going to have communication with the European Commission? So if we want to get involved and create a real strategy the worse, the better, then we continue this discussion and we raise this issue to the next election.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28474	Replica, Živković. 122
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28475	I would agree with a respected colleague, Dokić, that only one sentence is mentioned here, which is that it is constantly pointed out that Minister Sadović has shown incompetence and complete non-compliance in communication. In this letter, however, there are far more difficult qualifications and accusations to discuss only whether it is a failure and incompetence. Mr. Dokić, it is said here that obstruction and violation have been done and subsequent adoption of the Foreign Law. Well, that's abuse of position. So how can you say... that Parliament does not need to discuss here, to say negatively affect efforts to apply and improve the rule of law in our country. Well, it's a coup against the rule of law in one country and a direct threat to security. To be said on page 2 that the State Department says "is a politician and braker of law enforcement in the field of combating terrorism". Well, this document isn't for a shift. This document is for SIPA. And we as a serious parliament, if we are going to be a normal parliament, then we need to conclude that this letter is being forwarded to the SIPA and that everyone in this letter is being examined whether it is true. Is that true?- I'm sorry. We're not talking about the incompetence of a minister's work here. Here we are talking about the terriblely strong accusations that the president of the party who is here in Parliament has said something like that. And that's why it's important that we discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28476	Replications.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28477	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28478	Wait a minute, wait a minute. Please be patient. Sit down, Mr. Dokić, we're going in a row. Replica, Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28479	Well, as far as I'm concerned, a colleague can go before me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28480	Here you go, Mr. Dokić, replica. Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28481	Yes, Mr. Živković got me 100% wrong, totally. I didn't say we weren't discussing resignation, I just said it was for me, it should be a done deal, and here it's a problem whether it's gonna back up or not. So, keeping the dignity of both the Minister and the Council of Ministers, I am now saying this from the opposition, and the message is from your position: it would be better without a great debate to declare what the chairman has proposed. So I didn't say we shouldn't discuss it at all, this is such a big question. 123
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28482	People have the right to ask, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28483	They do, but that's why I have the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28484	Of course, I keep letting you do that, too, yeah. Ekrem Ajanović, replica. Adem Huskić, replica. I'm sorry. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28485	Look, I wanted something, I haven't heard more demagogy in a long time and read more hypocrisy than these two pages say. This, this gentleman who wrote it here, he knew everything before May 27th, right; I think it was Congress then, but neither was that, what I wanted, it's not the main thing I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28486	It's a replica, Ademe.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28487	It's a replica to Mr. Dokić. In my opinion, Mr. Sadović is not the main culprit for this visa liberalisation situation. I'll just remind the next one. In the last year and a few days, two of the things on which this Parliament and this Council of Ministers have worked most were, in my opinion: the first was the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and now this liberalisation of the visa regime. When we talk about the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we all remember that the main condition was for it, and that Oli Ren was coming here on a plane, that there was the adoption of those two police laws. The laws were passed on April 11th last year. At the time, the SDA was against, the entire SDA, so it was including this gentleman who signed this letter now and including Mr Sadović. They were against those laws. Those who are now against the Sadović shift were and have drawn out these laws on the basis of which we signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. These are the facts. These laws provide for the formation of two committees. One is the Independent Committee, and the other is the Board of Appeals of the Citizens. Here, we ended those committees at the previous point. I ask you and myself what Mr. Sadović's role is in the fact that we were 15 months late and who was late. I think Tarik here is part of the floor, he's part of the deal, he's the price for some of the crap some people have been doing in all kinds of cafes. And because of that, it means in principle, I don't defend him, I have a lot of objections to his work, but I can't accept this argument because it doesn't stand. Not to mention the laws that were related to visa liberalisation. Not everyone came from his ministry. Those who came, he did defend the stubborn Ministry, but here, after all, those laws from his ministry are in line in this monent, but not some 124 other laws. What about the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters? It's not Sadovic's law. The last law passed was the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which is also not from his ministry. I think we should be honest.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28488	Replica, Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28489	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, what I'm about to say is my opinion, and I'm building that has nothing to do with the BiH Party. Mr. Professor said, and this is also written in the letter that it actually exists as the main culprit for why the visa-free regime has not been allocated to BiH. ... Gentlemen, for three years Sadović was head of the ministry. For three years, both the party they belong to and the government they belong to knew what they were doing. She even knew the international community. This letter, in my opinion, is a conscience-washing for the shameful decision of the international community that did not put BiH in a visa-free regime, and is now looking for the culprit through our adjuvants who exist and who are making the right to wash their conscience that BiH has not made a fair decision together with Serbia and Croatia to enter the visa-free regime, because neither Serbia nor Croatia nor Macedonia has gone too far in relation to BiH. So, I'm building up, it's not the party's position on BiH, it's my personal position. I won't vote for Sadović's shift.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28490	You didn't step away from the party's position. Let's go, Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Replica to Mr. Dokić. Otherwise, I didn't mean to speak, because I took my position where I was supposed to, but here's a recommendation for you, Mr. Chairman, maybe we should hear the Minister's vision of this act that was received here, so maybe after that we can discuss it differently. But here, this morning we were witnesses, Mr Dokić, at the beginning of work of the 58th session of Parliament, to the question of Mr Šefik Džaferović that we would get an answer from the Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr Sredoje Nović, what are the current reasons for the poor implementation of biometric passports; so if we are talking about visa-free regime, it means we should not be disgusted by just one position, someone here was just talking, if we are talking about why we are not on that train – then it is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers and we can talk about it. If we're going to point the finger at the eye, then let's say the minister just said this morning that he got that commitment in 2007. So we know who else is involved in this process but we just got the answer from the European Commission that the point is that we are not on this train – precisely, this biometric passport. Now, let's open up the next question to see who else is responsible for all this. Or someone said we had one scapegoat, so now we turn it around. 125 So in that part, here I call on all of us, that now, specifically, precisely, we begin to explain the reasons why we are in this situation today. Here's this detail of Mr. Dokić's visceral story. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28492	I have two more reported replicas. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28493	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have indeed heard different reasons and findings but I must say that the finding that the international community washes conscience is something that is really this surprising. I think it's really the international community's fault that they're asking us for anything at all, especially that it's guilty of asking us for what we can't, and we can't do anything. I congratulate Mr Sadović on the deadline. I think the transfer was a good one from the SDA to the Party for BiH and that it obviously resulted, meaning by the relationship of BiH's counterparts. As far as I'm concerned, it suits me, so it does not answer to Mr. Sadović's shift today, because it continues the agony of the Council of Ministers, but it does not suit me, on the other hand, because of the findings found in this letter. If we have all come to an end, which is the EU, and of course everything that awaits us to the EU, then I think the serious findings in this letter are sufficiently warning that at least we are not accusing the international community, but that we are here to say who is responsible for where we are. And it's not true that the question is just biometric passports, it's only one segment in the whole story. Many things, and the chairman, as far as I am aware, today was the Interresor Working Group meeting on this subject, there are many other conditions, not just biometric passports, which depend largely on this ministry. If after this, the Ministry can continue to work on these projects, then I don't know what we're talking about. That none of this is true what it says in this letter, after this I think it is no longer possible to work in this composition – that nothing is true. It's not possible anymore. And here you are, after all, the majority of you who have to decide. I say, as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to vote for this shift, just because I believe that the delay of these processes is going to harm all citizens of this country and has nothing to do with political parties.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28494	Excuse me, Mr. Kalabić, just a little comment on these observations by Mr. Novaković regarding the BiH Party. Apparently, a man came if he had a good experience in these things. Nice to Kalabić you. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28495	Mr. Chairman, here, at this difficult and sad moment, in front of this somewhat sad gathering – because it is always some sadness when someone leaves, although everyone here is looking for some squire – 126 heirs, false friends, they all have some tears, and in fact they have other intentions for tomorrow when it happens. I had no intention of reporting for discussion because we accepted one position that we from the SNSD had said earlier about what we had to say. However, since the discussions go in another direction, and we've listened today, I haven't even heard from the Regulatory Agency about that point, even though there were all kinds of stories and who knows what time the demagogy was told today. When you look at what's going on with FTV in the world, I've been sent a very ugly message about one people, not representatives of that people, I'm talking about the Bosniak people, I'm disgusted by those stories about reis and the rest, and now it's like someone else's fault, you know. And now it wasn't clear to me that someone was trying to keep that media space today, trying to keep that story the way it is, you know. These people on that television talked about terrorists, about what I don't know either, about there, but I don't understand it here, Mr. Dolić said part of it well, how someone can deny that the US accuses the minister of obstructing the fight against terrorism and can expect support from the international community. I just don't understand those people. I don't understand that someone can expect the EU to go over these things and simply accept it, and this is written, this is a fact, people wrote it. And now you have a situation, it doesn't matter, we're not going to deal with it because it's the wrong qualification and we're going to ignore it, we've got a passage, but here some of us don't give, you know, like this. When the international community says a position on Srebrenica, it is irrefutable, it cannot be discussed. When he says something about terrorism, well, that's problematic. Let's be realistic. I had a problem when this letter came because we all have different letters. The contents of the letter that came from Banja Luka against Sadović are exactly the same which came from Sulejman Tihić, so I didn't care what letter I read and... because they... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, it's possible, I'm not sure. So it would be incorrect of us to, at this point, discuss it further, talk about it. I think things are completely clear here. His political party has put a signature under what others have talked about, they haven't had the opportunity to implement, these opportunities are created today, and I'm really joining those who think that this should not simply be discussed, simply about this reality, and this job should be finished and just go on. But we have to react when it turns to other flows and when this serious thing is being tried to demagoguely add some other things, which do not stand as excuses, as excuses for our own mistakes, to anyone and at any time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28497	Replications. Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28498	Replica is Mr. Kalabić and Mr. Živković. So, rightly said Mr. Živković: if this is how it is in the paper, then Sadović is not for the shift, but he should deal with both the SIPA and the Prosecutor's Office. Because if he's a politician and braker of law enforcement in the field of 127 counterterrorism, then he means there's terrorism in this country, so some people are trying to stand up to it, and he's holding it back. So I accept there are terrorists in this country and there are terrorists. I don't know when the last terrorist act took place in this country, except for an attack on Alija Izetbegović's grave. And this man is guilty of stopping the fight against terrorism. I know there are some people with beards, but it's not terrorism that you're going to run into in the dark with someone with a beard and be afraid of him. It's terrorism when that beard sets up some kind of bomb, some act like that. And there's that all over the world. But I don't know that there is terrorism in BiH. And we'll accept it. When we replace a man with these qualifications, we will accept that there is terrorism in BiH. And we will accept that there is Muslim, or Bosniak nationalism, because in the functioning of the ministry he worked mostly on ethnic rather than formal and command lines. So we had a nationalist here and a man who's holding back the fight against terrorism and who's holding back the promotion of the rule of law! These are terrible qualifications. I can't accept it or confirm it. The party has the right to replace a man and I think that Mr. Sadović is a valuable man, an honest man, an honest, a little stiff, a Rigid, he didn't quite get along, he could have done more in business, and that would have been enough for me to say to Sadović, you're good, but somewhere in another position you'll get more expression, so here's someone else to try. But these qualifications, so it's a burden for all of us both for this party and for this Parliament, etc. That's why I won't be able to accept and press this green button, so I'm going to press white.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28499	Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28500	Well, here, in the shadow of this debate about the replacement of the Minister of Security, we had a chance, and I'm surprised the whole Parliament is silent right now, to hear a shocking statement from the head of the SNSD Club. The man literally said earlier, you had a chance, it was a question of survival or the survival of the people on FTV, and then you listed what he stated. So the 18th point of the agenda, here's the man now publicly admitted that the appointment of members of the RAC Council was a matter of survival or the absence of people on FTV. I can't believe you said that in public and, unfortunately, you said it. Shocking, really.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28501	Replica, Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28502	I don't know what you, colleague Bećirović, are talking about. You've got these guns on that shooting where you've got you, Erp and Holidej, and there's whoever's on which side the party belongs, the one who shot the machine gun, and whoever's out of the gun, you didn't listen to me at all. I didn't say that at all. 128 I said only about the state of FTV. It's not clear to me that someone wants to keep it, and you've all talked about it before. I watch that TV, too. And I listen there when Reiss is talking about what the RS has never mentioned against him. Here, I took an example of a man, which may not be right. You're still some other people, and you're sitting here, and it's not just clear to me that someone was pushing for it to stay that way. I don't get it. That's what I said. Not a word of any kind, you have completely misheard my words, of no survival or remnant. We have nothing to do with it. But I told you about hypocrisy and demagogy. If images like that, that television all over the world, people are being sent from FTV headquarters, then it's gonna be someone from other centers, like this and like that, that I'm not defending either, if those messages are. And these messages, someone should imagine who has the ability to influence or not influence. And apparently no one has any influence while people keep sending those messages. They're obviously so independent. Here, this debate has shown that they simply don't fertilize what we're doing here, and the messages will go on as far as that goes. Because here, I will return to this topic: if someone should be unhappy here, the RS loses one built politician, Tarik Sadović has given the best days of his political in RS, but that the tragedy in this parliament is complete: no matter how much he fought for BiH, it has shaken him today, and as much as he may not have ever accepted some things in the RS, she has respected him more. But here, it's an integral part of life, that where they usually last, where they're the greatest of love, they're the biggest disappointments, but what you're going to do is how it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28503	Can I have some seriousness, please? Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28504	I must say, I must say, I am amazed by this message and by the public recognition that the 18th point, the question of the election of the RAC Council, in fact, was the issue of the survival or the absence of FTV and the journalist FTV. On behalf of the SDP Club, I am seeking a 15-minute break and a stenogram of Mr. Kalabić's exposure, so that he cannot manipulate the sequel.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28505	Time out for 15 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats to keep working, and in the meantime, the service will try to get this stenogram. So, let's go back to the discussion report, but before we make a deal; it's fifteen to seven, we have two options: so we work tonight until we're done or we move on tomorrow morning. 129 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28508	I thank you, Chairman. So, I'll start with the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28509	Are you saying you're done or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28510	No, I'll start at the end. If there is a shift in Sadović, which I doubt, then I am sure we will not be in position, so we will not choose another security minister, the deputy chairman who will be from the Bošnjak order. I'm sure there won't be a new minister's election. And that's a fact that's very important. Second, just to answer Novaković. So Minister Sadović did not... move to the Party for BiH, unfortunately, he did not move to the Party for BiH, but that is no reason why we are not acting in principle and we are not talking about these things. I am now asking only this chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers: Are these his reasons that he cited and this letter sent by Sulejman Tihić, is this a component of these reasons which he stated in his decision? And I'd like that to answer that question. And as a whole, I find this letter, simplified, humiliating... for both the U.S.A. and for us MPs who need to plead on this shift. So, in addition, I call here on the President of the Commission for European Integrations in Parliament, the man is an expert in this visa liberalisation, an expert, to tell us whether this argument really stands, which the SDA wrote, says: 'Consuming that... it was negative' (these above reasons)...'repercusion to the overall results of the work of the Ministry of Security, including failure to meet the conditions for the abolition of the visa regime for the citizens of BiH', to answer us, since... the President of the Commission is the most addressed to these things about visas, whether this Minister Sadović was doing his jobs or in the way that he should have done it or not worked. I am really obliged to say that I need to look, find, get results, get a report on the work of Minister Sadović and there find that out of the 174 requirements concerning visa liberalisation and as regards the Ministry of Security, they have done 75% of these things; 132 requests have been made by people at the Ministry of Security, and that is to be said. For all these reasons, therefore, not to repeat our views, we will be against this kind of unprincipled relationship to this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28511	Milica Marković. 130
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28512	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to say, since I also support this initiative to finish this session tonight, I'm going to briefly point out a few things that I think are principled, and... of which we've stepped down, which we don't stick to in this whole debate and in this discussion. The initiative we heard and this decision taken by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I think it was meant to end, that this item of the agenda should have ended in hearing the explanation of the Council of Ministers chair and to end, to vote afterwards. I think it's unprincipled to have this kind of discussion because everything that's longer and more discussion is at stake and the dignity of the person to whom this is concerned, and the parties that launched this initiative. The second principle of which we have deviated, I'll just remind you. Recently, two deputy ministers who were from the PDP were replaced and when the party requested that these deputies be removed and withdrawn from those positions, with a reason that the party was leaving the assembly majority in this parliament, no discussion was held by either party or party, nor by members of the Bosniak people. We simply accepted it as a fact, did so, ended up and named ourselves other people and continued to do so. The SNSD club had objections to the work of Minister Sadović both last and last year. I'm just going to remind you of one example from last year that even here is not listed, and all of this we knew and we know that this is standing and that this is like this, and that the 2008 State Department said about Minister Sadović and everything else, it's clear to us, but last year when the SNSD Club asked Minister Sadović, as Minister of Security -- at what stage is the action of the Wahhabi movement in BiH, and how much are they a danger to BiH citizens? - he came forward and said he thinks there is no movement in BiH at all, so that after a few days the Islamic religious community will come forward and say the movement poses a danger to the Bosniaks themselves in BiH. Not to mention the incidents that occurred recently in Mostar, Janja near Bijeljina and other places, which completely denied it. So, man, whether he wasn't competent or unable to deal with the problem he got himself into and the vault he was leading! So, I suggest we end this. So, let's just make this clear, and I want to say my point that I think that all those who dispute the right of one party to withdraw their minister and immediately thereafter propose their proposal to that same place, challenging it and trying to stop it, simply, working on a situation that is being set up by the Council of Ministers in one position that they can no longer do anything. As the SNSD Club, we asked for the replacement of some other ministers, say the foreign minister from the Council of Ministers, but we knew that while the party, its parent party, supported him, he would be the minister in the Council of Ministers. And now imagine this absurd situation that the minister, the minister who is in political office -- he was not the director of any enterprise or institution, so now you need to look for a check through the SIPA, through this, through what the man did, whether it's all about what's written here -- that's a political function, came by the initiative of his party and that party has the right to withdraw it, and imagine this absurd situation that the party 131 to which it belongs, so we agreed, when the resolutions in the Council of Ministers were divided, and when this Council of Ministers was formed, to whom, to which the party which the resolutions belong, now some other parties take the right to defend the man, to reciprove all that his party claims, which he is saying. And I believe that you know a lot of what's said and that you're aware of these facts, especially those who call on the international community, so they say, well, the international community said that and that's so, it's a sacred letter, it can't change. And now, when the international community says that the same minister is a braker of all these processes that take place in BiH towards Euro-Atlantic integration, then that's not true, then that story doesn't suit us, and now we're going to refute and reject it. So, I think we need to be a little more principled and remember some of the situations that happened two or three months ago, like the PDP situation, or some other situation, and not to bring about the absurdity of this parliament and the right of political parties to have resolutions... and the ministries as we agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28513	Replica, Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28514	I'm going to replicate very briefly, as far as principle is concerned. The first thing, in principle, was to support the PDP's request for their ministers to be replaced because...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28515	Are you sure that was a PDP request?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28516	Here, if Tihić had written that he was coming out of the congregation majority, I would have supported this. And let him write it like that, as far as I'm concerned, I'll support it. The other thing about principle is the shift of Minister Alkalaj. My colleague said that they started the initiative even though they knew the party wasn't behind it and that it wouldn't go away, and that's, and that says how principled we are, is it? And the third thing about principle is that Sadović is a braker. I'm not saying he didn't have his own actions in that brake. But I think SNSD is a much bigger brake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28517	Eh, let's see if there's a replica. There isn't. Mirko Okolić, discussion. 132
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28518	Such a discussion as today is expected but between the position and the opposition, but between the position and position this is really strange and at the very least he couldn't hope for this. If the position had discussed it as some members, the opposition would have actually discussed it like that, then it would have been perfectly normal. If I were Mr. Sadović, I would say, "Don't defend me anymore, please, because from your defense I got more beatings." And now as my colleague, or colleague Jerko Ivanković, I will have to say one true thing that happened in order to explain something that I wanted to say... beyond that. At the time of that quick return of apartments, houses, means assets, returnees one, now you guess who, who lives somewhere far abroad, of course, there tries to find a ham and that for some money it returns to him as soon as possible, that a man does not come from abroad more times. And when he did it and did it in one attempt, in one coming, then he came to the bar where it mostly happens in front of 25 people, and he said to me, "And what this man does to me, I only came from Norway once, return my apartment right away, and it's not, brother, not expensive, 5 grand, I'd spend it anyway in the way." Now the lesson from that can be concluded. That's how this works. It's not correct and it's hard to talk about a man when he needs to be removed. And it's not correct of some who like to help him, but, in fact, by their discussions, they get away from him and create other preconditions for something else. I don't want to talk, you can, we've had... co-operation and we've cooperated, a certain commission and Mr. Sadović etc. As you decide as your position today, it is up to you, we will not teach you from the opposition, but you will surely be called by us and by others and you will be responsible if you make a bad move today. Because today so many big things are said for and against, and now you decide what is for, and what is against, and what will prevail, and what is more important for this BiH, and for what we swear – whether we will have any consequences or not if you make such and such a decision, because you must be aware today that you will be both called and responsible for these consequences. As for us and the relations with the international community, we, we want to be in Europe, as we work together, and sometimes we will, as we once will not, etc. This looks like a child whose mother doesn't give a breast, or whatever it is you want to say, for some reason, and the angry thing about Mom, she just ignores it a little bit, and she says, well, now I don't want any bottles. Now, that kind of comes to you with this Parliament and most of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28519	It was vivid. Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28520	And I have a few words to say. First of all,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28521	A little patience, please. A little patience. 133
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28522	And in my opinion, this letter was written, if the author wrote it that signed it,... if he only got a note like in Prudo, then he read that paper in Prudo and signed it, then I'm abulmating it completely. And I think that's the way it is, it smells like his paper, because these accusations are so heavy, too heavy; if SDP had written them, he wouldn't have written them like this, the opposition, I think. Also, the author, if he was written by this letter, I must say, obviously he's graduated from the kumbar school and has experience in such writings, and he worked as a public prosecutor before the war, so probably a man (the wolf's hair never changes) has experience in writing, installing indictments. That's why I'm in favor of what he wrote, too heavy an accusation, to go to the SIPA, to the D.A.'s office to be questioned. Because this is someone's way of writing, one document, I think it's really too heavy words. I am not the lawyer of Minister Sadović, but he is the sacrificed lamb of the wrong policy, the author of this text. Because in my opinion, the author has the greatest responsibility, because he's the party president for three terms. Where's the command responsibility here? common discussion Also, the author told the media that he would also promise foreigners that he would... change the minister after the congress. So he respected what he said. Now, I don't know who the president of the Human Resources SDA is, is it Kebo or Dodik? Dodik said the same thing... half a year ago - to Minister Sadović, he said, "You're already removed, you just don't know." So, apparently, colleague Kalabić, that Dodik has or runs human resources policy and the U.S.A., as far as I can see. That's right. And one more thing, when I see that Lagumdžija is here and that the SDP is in full composition, I know immediately that... here are those air-conditioned who have learned that... it's already directed or that thing is over. And I'm never because I'm not in favour of the international community running any party's human policy. Then why do we need parties, what do we need choices for? Dismiss us, then take it here, put Sejdo Bajramović on, do whatever you want. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28524	Replica, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28525	I am sorry, Mr. Chairman, that my colleague Sadović has brought the SDA into this position to discuss it like this today. Because I'm certainly more of a friend to Mr. Sadović than you, Sado Bahtić, so I'm sure. Turn behind you when you talk about command responsibility and when you see who's at the head of the country and you see where our country has come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28526	Zlatko Lagumdžija, discussion. 134
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28527	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28528	Anything Sadik has to do, let's not be difficult.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28529	No Niko here needs a man to regret, a man worked as hard as he could, best done in this environment, nothing else is better in the Council of Ministers. And apparently you and your mentor can't possibly get over that vanity that you've been defeated in the election, that you've won 150 grand, and my president's 350. The way you work and nod your head, you'll get the next 50 grand election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28530	Zlatko Lagumdžija, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28531	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. So as not to remain vague...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28532	Let's listen to each other, please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28533	I'll wait, it's not...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28534	Hello, a little attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28535	First, I am sorry that Minister Sadović did not address this parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28536	He'll turn around.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28537	I have no doubt he'll turn around, miss that opportunity, I'm sorry he didn't do it at first. It would be a lot simpler, a lot easier, a lot simpler. I must admit that I am truly sorry that Minister Sadović will today be removed as the only man who will be removed today because of what it says in this letter. It is certain that the ministry's functioning mainly on ethnic, not formally ordered lines is not 135 specific to Tarik Sadović. It is certain that the objections to his work, which began in 2007, could not have been found out in 2006, only to be a minister, so the objections began in 2007, it is certain that he was not the only one, whether, for whom the objections began even then. It is certain that he is not the only one who has underestimated the role of the Council of Ministers and this Parliament. It is certain that he is not the only one in this Council of Ministers to be responsible for incompetence, because of the lack of communication and respect for the number of representatives of the international community. By any chance, if some people were replaced by respect for the international community, today we would certainly not have the same federal, or, excuse me, entity premieres as we did a year and two years ago. Many people today would not be where they are in their positions. I am sure Minister Sadović is not the only one who has caused negative repercusions in his behaviour to the overall results of the Ministry of Security, including failure to meet the conditions for lifting the visa regime for BiH citizens. I don't know why these ministers and this chairman are here today. Perhaps because they probably know, there may be a lack of Bariša, there may be a lack of Alkalaj (he may be on the road and that is why he is missing), but it is certain that today a much greater enthusiasm would rule to change them as well as people who are directly responsible, some, perhaps more so, because Sadović knew what he was doing might not have done, and some of them knowingly did things without getting a visa regime, and they are sitting there waiting for someone not to call them. Today we heard Minister Sredoje telling us about biometric passports. I wanted to go take a picture, get a passport. That's how the man introduced it as if those biometric passports were just out there and everything was going like milk. I am sorry that today we will not be able to see that, to some extent, because of the gentleman of someone else, his colleague, who is also the president, and not only the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, we do not have the opportunity to plead with him, we cannot talk about him, because they have all reflected in the work of the complete Council of Ministers of BiH. Mr. Sadović is obvious; I think it's all expensive paradoxical, dear Bog, Bakir says it's not for green, here I am for green today, not for heart red, but for white. That's too bad! It'd be good if Bakir pressed red today, and I went green, so let's go fair and square, but that's where Bakir's gonna stay on white.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28538	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28539	I didn't say, bahto, you, Sadik Bahtić, looks like back to the roots... red, you've voted red a lot, so it's nothing controversial, it won't be difficult, it'll just be your heart playing when you vote red.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28540	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28541	Yes, it is, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28542	Please, just a minute. 136
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28543	Okay. So, I really think after this vote today, so we're going green, we're going green. We're sorry there aren't any more people to push them green from this Council of Ministers. We're sorry we can't do this for the entire Council of Ministers. We are pleased that the SDA gentlemen or at least part of the SDA gentlemen joined Denis Bećirović's initiative in March this year when he launched an initiative to replace Tarik Sadović. I invite you, Mr. Chairman, or Mr. Prime Minister's Council, to pick a new one as soon as possible, to think about it a little bit, this will go its course. So, the sooner you choose a new one or, quite naturally, if a man stays, the sooner the Minister of Security starts doing his job. If he gets support in Parliament today, that's a good message. So it's very important that the Minister of Security, as of Monday, does his job. If Tarik Sadović has the support of this parliament, the man is going to work, but it is very important that we have a minister of security. And that's why we call upon the ruling parties to make sure that as soon as possible, we have a minister of security. You have our support for the quorum to pick your new one as soon as possible or to confirm your old minister of security today, because it's an obligation for everyone. Finally, the gentlemen of the Party for BiH who apparently deal with me, although I am not on the agenda, I expect from you – see, is it, as honorable people, is it so, Nikola – that today, if, brother, they stay in the minority, that they fine, as they do in every democratic country, come out of the ruling coalition, expensive fine suitcases and come out of the offices, because it is honorable, it is honorable. They go nice and join us, maybe it'll make it easier for us to bring down these others who they think are also... So, you know what the procedure is. The procedure is simple, we call on the Minister of Security to do his job, to do it as soon as possible, choose this one as soon as possible, confirm or bring in another. We're against this as well as the new one. For the new one, we'll be red, for the new one.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28544	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28545	Don't worry, Bahtić, I certainly won't be a candidate who'll be on the same side with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28546	Please don't throw it away, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28547	That's for sure. You and I are two countries, two countries, we have nothing in common, so we are two different BiH, Mr Zorić. And finally, I would ask, Mr. Špirić, that as soon as you call President Sulejman Tihić to give you a new one or make him work if he has your support. And to be very clear, since Mr. Sadović asked me, I did not go to Rafi on the subject of Sadović; who went to Rafi and the Amerikanac on the subject of Sadović can apply. I'm here to say this: I absolutely don't care what any representative of the 137 international community thinks of you and those who are your nightmares. I told them in their face that I don't care what they think of you. I am thinking the same thing about you as I thought in 2007 from the beginning of the remarks on you, and especially the visa regime – you must be responsible for this. It's a shame he won't be able to handle the others who need you. There is no reason not to end this story today and open up a chance of getting a security minister as soon as possible, even if it is you, Mr Sadović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28548	I have a replica, but, Mr. Lagumdžija, when you're around these colors, an hour and a half ago, let the white be mentioned, but here she is now blushing. Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28549	That's all I wanted to say to Professor Lagumdžija, which he cares about, how Bakir, what Bakir is from the heart, etc. It's a guess, isn't it? He needs to take care of his club. He wanted this one to vote differently. His chief of staff said something else for a second, but, well, Lagumdžija came, so now people know what to do to them, otherwise they didn't know, they wanted to vote white. And because this is an unfortunate country for you, here's the man answering, there's a problem because he didn't do something there, as Mr. Lagumdžija did in his time, so he drove people to Guantanamo, so they did time to do time and their children were crying for them here, is that it? Here, now it's no good when you don't do it. In Bosnia, it looks like whatever you catch, my Zlatko: if you're a Bošnjak you're no good... not when you send people to jail, not when you're not driving them away, not when you're deporting them, and there you are. And I suggest you do more business with your club than you do with ours here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28550	I have new replicas. Sadik Bahtić, second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28551	Second, second, I need to replicate my colleagues to Lagumdžija. Here's my colleague Bakir already. What we are discussing today, these visa reliefs, gentlemen dear, are all reflections of the work of colleague Zlatko Lagumdžija when he was chairman of the Council of Ministers and Foreign Ministers. He portrayed Bošnjak and BiH as a country dangerous for terrorists, arrested, installed indictments, showed us to the white world as terrorists, I was in the OSA at a seminar where..., he says, bh. terrorists. Our authority, the Alliance was at that time and her goal was to show the Bošnjak as terrorists, so that he wouldn't be fit to come to power. We know the pogorelica, the Algerian group, that we don't talk, and now you're telling someone demagogue for visa relief, that's the result of your work.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28552	Jozo Križanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28553	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 138 I think today's session is full of misunderstandings, misunderstanding. I do not know how other colleagues and colleagues understood me when I spoke on this subject, I did not say at all how the club would be determined according to this vote, but I expressed, as you recall, the dissatisfaction that today we are not talking about the responsibility of both Parliament and the Council of Ministers on the failure of the visa regime and the dissatisfaction with the quality of the work of the Council of Ministers, and in that sense I am sorry to say that we have only one minister on the agenda today, and that I am not convinced that we will improve the quality of the Council of Ministers' work. Here, about in the final part, I've repeated what I've already said.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28554	Remzija Kadrić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28555	Replica,...right, what Bakir said, so until about an hour and a half ago you had one story from the SDP, now you have a whole other story. Tarik Sadović was a law-abiding man, he did not allow law-abiding when it comes to these foreigners, etc. He has shown one dignity, one principle of respect for the laws of this country. For these reasons, it is not correct, on your part, to behave like this now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28556	Zlatko Lagumdžija, they're all replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28557	Yeah, the replicas, they are, so they can't discuss it twice, so good can. Mr. Izetbegović, I never accused you or your father of bringing some people back, and you should have brought them back somewhere, so you didn't bring them back. I don't know what you're accusing me of, and I sent people to Guantanamo, because you know very well what happened, and you know very well that Zlatko didn't send them. That, if you started, believe saditi Bahtić, I'm surprised at you, you're a lot, we're, I mean, we know.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28558	Let's listen a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28559	And not to listen to each other, so we're throwing ourselves away while we're listening, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28560	Not throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28561	Well, that, yes, of course. So, it's not clear to me from what you said, I now realize for the first time that Tarik Sadović's problem has something to do with Gvantanam, for the first time I've heard it. That doesn't even say in 139 this letter, where it says everything. I don't understand that Sadović is guilty, that he brought them back or that he didn't return them. And at all, where's the problem? You're introducing a new story about what would be interesting to me. I participated in these people being brought before the Justice Court in Washington, Washington, in the first and only case so far, where a foreign citizen before the US court sued the President of the United States, where I witnessed against the President of the United States, for your information, Mr. Bakir, you know that well. And you know very well that those people who were returned were returned despite this Council of Ministers, and when the American Court released them. You also know that those who have been released from the US court here have not been returned. Now I don't understand why Sadik, this Tarik Sadović, is guilty. In the end, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28562	Attention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28563	chairing, I repeat once again, the SDP Club could not have been inconsistencies unless... if it was done to you and if you want to present it on purpose, for one simple reason that the SDP Club, unlike some other parties, obliges the SDP Presidency's decision, which was unanimously taken that this minister, as well as others responsible for the visa regime, should leave. And it's no secret, these people are sitting in that leadership and they're, and none of them said they would vote against their decision and their presidency. And ours, I repeat again, the reasons for the shift are the visa scandal and Denis Bećirović's four-month-old initiative. Nothing can change about that. And that, if you're changing Tarik for Gvantana, then you have a slightly more serious problem, Mr. Izetbegović. That Gvantanamo won't help you very much as an argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28564	We're glad to see you working on this information. So, replicas. Jozo Križanović. Is this the other one, Jozo?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28565	Yes, this is a unique example that I...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28566	There's a Remzija second and a third already mandatory.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28567	I don't know. It's a replica of a colleague named Remzija Kadrić. After I have explained, I am surprised by this interest of fellow Kadrić to twist the conclusions or the problem is to understand what I was saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28568	It doesn't matter at all. 140
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28569	It's important, because it's trying to, in some way, draw some suspicion or some kind of discrepancy into the SDP Club. I'm, uh, there's a fellow in this room that I told on my break that the SDP Club would be set up during the vote. So, I wonder why this imputation and what it's all about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28570	Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28571	It's just a correction to the wrong quote of the honourable MP Lagumdžija. So Alija Izetbegović didn't bring anyone here, nor was he obliged to return from this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28572	Eh, we're closing the lines. We drove away, we drove in... Halid Genjac reporting for discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28573	Chairman, with respect and time, I will try as quickly as possible, but in a way, in a way, I am forced to respond and to react. Very often today, the content of the text is mentioned in the debate and very often the thesis has been replaced. I'm not happy about, maybe, this kind of letter, but if we're already using the letter, we have to bear in mind the following facts. In the beginning, a number of domestic and international institutions were recorded. Only recorded and listed. In particular, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council on the basis of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. That's one fact. What can be used as an explanation is very clearly written in this text, where it says the SDA Presidency has considered the remarks, and Mr Sadović has also declared them, categorically denying the same allegations. Given the credibility of institutions that referred to objections, their importance and role in resolving numerous problems in BiH, as well as the fact that this has already been reflected negatively and reflected in the work of the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers, work and relations in bh. the institutions, relations and co-operation with the international community and friendly countries – the SDA presidency asked Minister Sadović to resign. Furthermore, this does not mean that only Minister Sadović is responsible for all the failures and delays in the work of these institutions. What I've read is now a real explanation of the SDA. As you can see, no word in any word is said, as Mr Dokić said, that the SDA has stated that Sadović is solely responsible for non-liberalising visas for BiH citizens. Well, obviously, it's not like that. 141 The second thing is the liberalisation of the visa regime very often. As shown in this explanation for Sadovic's shift, things are stated very clearly, explicitly. Mr. Kadrić asked me, as chairman of the Commission for European Integration, my opinion on who is responsible. Mr Sadović and his ministry – we all know this well, and in the Commission for European Integration and in this Parliament – did very much in order to meet the criteria for visa liberalisation. However, we did not get the liberalisation of the visa regime, and who is responsible, and it is indeed a matter of responsibility, we will know very quickly, very white and very obvious in the next month, when the deadline for this supplemental list expires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28574	Replica, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28575	Frankly, I would not be in Mr Sadović's place and I would be ashamed to belong to a party whose president wrote such a letter. This isn't about partying, it's about criminal responsibility, that's what I'm talking about. You are listed here and it says here that from the relevant institutions you have respected the remarks. The relevant institutions have come from the observations you listed here and you, as a party, have accepted the observations of the relevant institutions. I don't know how to act, we at SNSD are asking to postpone the vote on Sadović until this is considered, so that after that we vote on it or, in order not to spoil this one, now to say, the idyll that is here, to vote on the resignation and then to refer all this to the prosecution, so that the man has a moral satisfaction about what his president wrote. It's about relevant institutions, and it's written like that. The SDA, he says, "The SDA presidency has considered the remarks and will be declared by Mr Sadović, given the credibility of the institutions." _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I didn't write the letter, Mr. Sadović. Why isn't it listed? Maybe you'll say, maybe someone from the SDA will say, I'm reading what it says here. He writes the credibility of institutions. If the credibility of the institutions, and respected the SDA credibility of the institutions and the allegations that are terrible here, then you need to come clean with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28577	We still have to give Mr. Sadović a chance. Mr. Sadović, please. I would ask the MPs not to open a new round of debates afterwards. 142
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28578	Dear Chairman, both deputies, MPs, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to present my opinion on the initiative for my shift and categorically deny all the untruths in it at my expense. I've been begging Bog to keep me from my friends lately, because I can protect myself from the enemy. The reasons the initiator gave me will be given in order and, of course, I will give the answers. For one, the first reason: obstructions and violations, and later the adoption of the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners and asylum in accordance with the Šengen standards. There is no example of obstruction, and especially no violation of the law, because it is subject to sanctions. A number of times, a lie has been repeated that the minister will not sign solutions to the exorcising of mujahedin. Decisions on the eviction of foreigners shall be adopted by the Foreign Affairs Service, Article 87. The law. And if a stranger will not leave the country voluntarily, the Service shall take measures to force a foreigner's distance under Article 93. The law. 822 solutions were adopted in 2007. In 2008, 787 solutions, and in the first six months of 2009 206 solutions. The Ministry of Security referred to the procedure, which is obtaining an opinion, the new 'The Law on the Movement and Stay of Foreigners and Asylum' in July 2007. So, five months after the minister's entry into office, and the Council of Ministers passed this law 20. Nine. In 2007. The parliament adopted it in April 2008. Under the law, the Council of Ministers, or myself, made ten regulations and decisions. A strategy and Action Plan in the field of immigration and asylum has been adopted. The legal framework is over. I want to repeat my position that everyone must be equal in front of the law. You can't go past the law because you wear long beards and shorter pants. This is where the rule of law is seen, because rule of law is not abstraction. The basis of my ministerial action has always been respect for the law without prejudice and discrimination against anyone. Second reason: the operation of the ministry mainly on ethnic rather than formal and command lines. This is a very mean claim. Some of the delegates of the House of Peoples, as Mrs. Majkić, accused me of even maintaining one-national colleges. The department's colleges consist of the minister, deputy, secretary, SIPA directors, border police, Foreign Affairs and Interpol, and recently three directors of newly formed agencies and the head of cabinets. I suppose you're familiar with their national composition. Therefore, it is a multiethnic college that is held as a rule twice a month. I formed a special body called the so-called body. Inter-sectoral coordination (in which the secretary of the ministry, all ministerial assistants and the chief inspector) is held once a week and regularly informs the minister and the deputy of the conclusions. The Internal Organisation Regulation stipulates that the Secretary shall coordinate the work of the sector and manage the use of potential, with a view to ensuring legality and efficiency. The composition of delegations I led in the country and abroad has always been multiethnic, and all negotiating teams for international and other agreements as well. 143 My relationship with officials depends on their commitment and responsibilities to work, not on their ethnic or religious belongings. Three: Proposing a regulation on the interior organisation of the ministry, which unnecessarily replicates the work of SIPA, the Border Police and the Service for Foreign Affairs, the minister does not propose, the minister adopts a rule that takes effect when it is confirmed by the Council of Ministers. The claim that I tried to replicate the competencies of police agencies, which deal with the detection, prevention and investigation of criminal offences and whose work is prescribed by the relevant laws, in the regulation of this ministry, imagine – are simple nonsense. Even if I wanted to, I couldn't do it. The Regulation is a sublaw adopted under applicable laws, and positive opinions of the Ministry of Justice and the Office of Law should be obtained before considering the Council of Ministers. A new rule has been passed, and it's been examined in the OHR. The Ministry's Strategic Plan was also done with the help of the British government and domestic experts, because these are compatible things. Four: underestimating the role of the Council of Ministers. This is an unserious claim based on the artistic-political impression. Our Council of Ministers has no jurisdiction and authority as governments of many developed states, but it certainly carries out government functions. The question for the author of the initiative is: How can an authority be underestimated without underestimating the vice-president in that body. I never underestimated myself. I attended the 97th Council of Ministers session of 104th and chaired the 66th session of the Committee on Internal Policy. In the work of the Council of Ministers, I have always played a proactive role. Five: Disputing the mandate of the EUPM against the Ministry of Security. Again, there is no concrete evidence, only a general and incorrect accusation. The mandate of the EUPM is defined by the acts of the EU Council. EUPM chief Stefan Feler consulted me before going to Brussels on the work plan and the accuracy of the EUPM's objectives in his mandate: 1) on support in the fight against organised crime and other forms of serious crime; 2) on police reform and 3) on police responsibility. I supported everything. Whoever doesn't, ask Felera. I really did not approve of some of the actions of previous EUPM chief Vinćenco Kopole, e.g. when he completely changed his mind for just a few days on police reform, and he offered me all sorts of things to change my mind, or when, without the knowledge of the minister, he brought 20 foreign journalists to the ministry, after whose stay in foreign media Sarajevo was described as the wild west. I've met with EUPM bosses 15 times in my office, and I've talked to their bosses in Brussels. I seem to have been resented for looking at some aspects of the EUPM's action. I met several times with senior representatives, Švarc Šilingom, Lajčak, and now Inck in the framework of co-ordination meetings to bring BiH closer to the EU. I participated in the Peace Implementation Council (PIC) meetings until I said that our citizens are far more concerned about their own future and that they should act concretely, rather than act anxiously. I haven't been called PIC ever since. 144 Ambassadors to BiH regularly come to my consultations and I have always shown courtesy and courtesy to them. Those who expected me to nod on what I disagreed with were wrong in judgment. I had at least 60 meetings with them in my office. The number of interior ministers in Europe that I have not had bilateral meetings with can be counted on. It's still a higher level than the ambassador. I met with Interpol directors, Europol... Frances, DICAF-A, etc. So far, I have signed 18 different international agreements, 12 protocols, including the BiH Work and Visa Facilitations Agreement with the EU and the BiH Agreement on the Exchange of Information with NATO. We've done 24 more agreements and we're waiting for answers from the other side. It is not true that communication with the European Commission delegation has almost been cut off, according to the shift initiator. I am meeting with delegacija chief Dimitris Kurkulas, and with the head of the European Commission's Directorate for Southeast Europe Pjer Mirela multiple times in Brussels and Sarajevo. Mirel recently gave me credit for his work on the visa liberalisation map. Six: it is not true that Minister Sadović is mentioned in the State Department's 2008 terrorism report. Whoever doesn't believe, read this report that's available on the Internet. I've always tried to objectify threats from terrorism, not to underestimate them, but I don't overestimate them. The number of terrorist crimes over the past two and a half years in BiH is certainly smaller than in the EU. Why is the problem when I say it, and it is not a problem when objective international knowers of the situation say, let's say EUFOR's commander. I would like to inform you that SIPA now has the necessary human and material technical capacities to take all the necessary measures and actions to prevent, detect and investigate the crimes of terrorism completely and independently, which was not the case before. Seven: As far as the alleged suspension of donations to the ministry is concerned, they are not accurate and there is no written act as evidence. I've got donations to the Ministry at the time of my term and the number is impressive. Donated funds, information and telecommunications equipment and systems, and other funds, are fixed funds of nearly 42 million KM for the Ministry and its agencies, and of which only for the Ministry of 29 million. If this is the end of the donation, then what's the flow? Eight: the initiator's intention to relocate the work and the ministry's results is more than obvious. Within the framework of the programme's tasks under the Council of Ministers' Work Programme, the Ministry of Security is ahead of it. It's easily verifiable and accessible. The Ministry's work report, actually, didn't even consider the initiator. It's sad, but it's true. Only a flight comparison will show any objective observer that SIPA, BiH Border Police and the Foreign Affairs Service have significantly improved work and results in the fight against crime compared to two and a half years ago. The ministry's budgets and its agencies rose from 113.5 million in 2007 to 160.7 million in 2009, meaning 47 million marks, or on average 42%. Some 900 young and educated officials, employees and police officers from all three nations and others were admitted to the ministry and agencies. 145 Border Police received a 7.5m-dollar building. The SIPA is building a building that will cost over 20 million. The Immigration Centre was built, and the second phase of the Immigration Centre ends. We're building an Asian center. We built the Network and Operational Centre, the Operations-Communication Centre 112, and the ministry officials, and there were nine of them in one office, moved into a new Council of Ministers building. Nine: The Ministry of Security and Agency have the highest number of obligations from the Map of Ways, 132 out of 174 obligations. The rate of fulfillment is over 90%. And if Tarik Sadović were to ask himself, the citizens of this country would have a visa-free regime, I assure you. To whom the Interresor Working Group is responsible, see the Council of Ministers' decision. What's the key condition, ask around, I don't have to tell you everything. BiH is implementing a readmission agreement with the EU. The threats of illegal migration are not over-expressive as well as the threat of organised crime. We are still not bordering with the EU. Of course, I'm not assessing security threats, I'm objectifying them. In fact, if we make this country into our media, in our heads, in our consciousness, a country of crime, who will take us in? We knock on that door, and we say you see how bad we are, how bad we are. In our judicial and police system with a huge number of prosecutors, courts and law enforcement agencies, an unconformed and fragmented legal framework, with intertwined powers and insufficiently built capacities, words of communication, coordination and co-operation form a formula for Sisif's work. Whoever wasn't working on this formula is free to talk. Dear MPs, the first deputy High Representative and the US ambassador were constantly pressing on my party's president to remove me from the position of Deputy Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers and Minister of Security. This verified information shall not be disclosed or disclosed by any of them. I don't know any sovereign country where diplomats can do these things. You will decide whether one of the most important sectors in each country will be managed by shadow deputies or legally elected domestic representatives of the government. This is not about the incompetence or dishonesty of a minister, but about his refusal to do only what they expect him to do. It's actually about defending democracy and political independence. Those who, after the vote, will take the list to their mentors, do not understand this. The importance of your election today, your vote in this House, is much more important than the daily political interests or the skin of a minister. However this all ends, thank you all for your cooperation so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28579	Here we are, I'd like to ask, if you don't have to, if you don't have to, if you don't mind, we're not having a discussion any further. We've all had a chance to say and we've said what we've had and here's the final debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28580	Especially, don't mention those who haven't answered at all. 146
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28581	on point 20. Here, Martina, I apologize, of course, deep, but I'm going, I have to go ahead, we're running out of time. Point 21. Ad. 21. Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics So this Joint Commission has submitted a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision appointing members of the National Minority Council. It is about the appointment of a minority member from the Turkish national minority in BiH. Varan Hakan has been proposed. I'm opening a debate. There's no discussion... or reports, I'm closing the debate. Let's go to point 22. Ad. 22. Consideration "The conclusion on the harmfulness of the anti-Dayton and unilateral action of the president of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadić in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina" – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28584	If there's no discussion, neither will I.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28585	There, there's no discussion, everything's fine, there's no discussion. The debate is closed. Let's get to the point. 147
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28586	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28587	You're really late.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28588	I'm not late.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28589	You must be too late, believe me. You're too late, Mr. Dokić, for sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28590	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28591	They're all too late. I'm the one who figured it out. That's when the names started to come up on the screen. Be safe. Let's go, here we go, point 23. (Keep an account when registering). Ad. 23. Consideration of a security and security situation in the Tuzla municipality So this point is included in the initiative and the proposal by Denis Bećirović. The promoter delivered the conclusions of an extraordinary session of the Tuzla Municipal Council, held on July 6th. When proposing a point, it is required to prepare, if possible, the Ministry of Security for the debate. Here, I have Mr. Dokić reported here, and he will take the opportunity for that point of the previous one, probably. Here you go, Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28593	Mr. Chairman, I didn't answer for this item on the agenda, but if I do,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28594	Here's the mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28595	I'll get back to you later. 148
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28596	Okay. It was my name on the screen. Now my name was on the screen, believe me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28597	Then you, your technical service supplying you, warn them and warn them that their system isn't working. I just said a little while ago
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28598	I'm really sorry, then it's up to the system.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28599	That I answered on time, but good.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28600	Then it must be up to the system. I'm really sorry, I'm warning technical services, I'm sorry, please. So here, I just had your name. Here, I hope it's true now, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28601	Dear Chairman, given that this session has lasted much longer than usual, I will skip all these discussions and on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club who has been proposing this agenda point, which is here and included in the agenda, I would like to skip all the debate and immediately propose the concrete conclusions proposed by the SDP Club on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28602	Please, before we vote to have them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28603	Sure. Number one. 'The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives estimates that it is necessary to adopt short- and long-term programmes and action plans to combat crime, to provide conditions for more effective work of competent police and judicial authorities, and to require the competent authorities of BiH, the Federation of BiH and the Tuzlan Canton to provide adequate material and technical conditions for the work of police and judicial authorities, to consider the possibility of creating conditions for competent prosecutors to strengthen themselves with a team of investigators, to ensure the increased presence of police officers in civilians around catering facilities in the nights, and especially on the weekends where these incidents occur, that the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Security Agency should be involved in the process of criminally active persons working within organised criminal active groups, that special attention is necessary to monitor the prevention of small crime'. 149 Under Number 2. 'The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Ministry of Security to provide complete information in co-operation with competent entity and cantonal authorities, no later than 30 days, on the deterioration of the security situation in Tuzla Canton and Tuzla, with a specific focus or emphasis on the identification of employers and organised crime structures that violate security, the definition of participants who have committed criminal acts, the measures taken by the competent authorities to sanction employers and participants and the proposal for concrete short-term, medium and long-term measures to prevent violent behaviour in the future.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28604	You heard the suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28605	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28606	Is it a replica or a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28607	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28608	Discussion, Milorad Živković and Šemsudin Mehmedović and Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28609	The SNSD also warned about the previous and this part of the agenda that this assembly was not competent to discuss certain matters, and in particular there was no direction to discuss it at all. We also saw in the previous point that no one answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28610	Just a little patience, please. Don't part ways.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28611	That's what I'm talking about, politics, proposing such points of the agenda, and our only conclusion can be that we, from the previous point of view, direct these conclusions to the High Representative to determine whether they are constitutional or anti-constitutional, so when he says what they are, let's discuss them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28612	Šemsudin Mehmedović. 150
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28613	Dear gentlemen, by estimating the time we spent today at the session, I'll do it very briefly. In fact, when proposing this item of the agenda, I was distracted by the indiscipline of the promoter in terms of, here's why the very worsened security situation in Tuzla. Why isn't it in Mostar, where the murder took place? Why wasn't the Orgy of Chetniks there? Why is it not a murder in Banja Luka, etc., etc.? If all of this were covered or if they had considered the overall security situation in BiH, I would have supported it by hand. But to focus only on Tuzlo, it seems to me that there is some political background, especially since this initiative claims that the SDP has the knowledge that there is a political background for all of these events, i.e. a impaired security situation in the city of Tuzla. There, right, God Bog, because he's the mayor of SDP. I, please suggest that if they have such knowledge to leave it to the competent institutions, let them do their job, and if not, this is just one political... for which this institution is not in charge. Imagine and remember the murder of Mrnjavac in Sarajevo, when the orchestrated attack was at the mayor of Sarajevo at the time of Borovac, with the aim of, behold, her removal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28614	And the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28615	And the Prime Minister, with the aim of removing them from their positions, for which the mayor had no jurisdiction. Remember the events now around Mostar, about the inability to form, that is, the election of mayors and blockades and protests, and, here it is, as I read today in Liberation, to some more radical measures. Is it not the concern of the SDP that certain things are not happening in Tuzla, or that the political background from Mostar and Sarajevo and Tuzlo may not be transmitted? For this reason, I find it unacceptable to suggest agenda points because they are unprepared. We can only say today, here, we are for or against the proposal for conclusions offered by the promoter. And so, here, I don't think it's principled and I can't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28616	Momčilo Novaković. We have replicas, uh, one, two, three, all, appreciating time. Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28617	I'll appreciate the time. Namely, here are several parallels that cannot stand in comparison with Mostar – Sarajevo, etc. The SDP club initiated this as a agenda point because the Tuzle Municipal Council discussed this and saw it as a very serious situation. Such a letter, or such conclusions of the Municipal Council, as noted in our initiative, was sent to the BiH Assembly of Parliament. I don't know if my colleagues have those 151 conclusions. And, it's perfectly natural, since we also have representatives from that part of the country, and we would treat other council conclusions if they ask us to, it's perfectly natural to discuss this here and help, if people feel they have no potential, they don't have the authority to help alleviate this security situation, because I don't see any reason to make parallels with both Sarajevo and Mostara. So we're going to react like this whenever we get imputes from any municipal council.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28618	I'm sorry, but I'll give you one piece of information. If the College brought all the initiatives from the municipal councils here, we would have a session every three days and deal with local problems, but there's no problem. Not to miss the information, please, your Friday materials are in the club rooms. All the material for the session, Friday, in the club rooms. So let's move on now. Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28619	Well, here it is, perhaps at some inappropriate time, so to what extent we can concentrate, not underestimating any of this problem, but it was just said in comparison, which I disagree with, when one graduation of these particular problems was carried out throughout BiH, so everything is placed in the same basket. I talked about it last time. I don't think that can be compared, no criminal act can be ignored, can't be underestimated, but its essence is absolutely different from what happened in Tuzla or some other cities when it comes to individual murders or when it's about the unresolved political situation or, here, when it's about this murder in Banja Luka that's clear to everyone what happened. It didn't have that kind of consequences and where the thing was completely over. You can't compare it to the situation... I'm the last time I checked out: where people in the middle of the day were shooting at each other for an hour and a half, those people had time to change their weapons, to add food, water, and the rest, where they had time to rest and keep shooting, where they had employers, where there's probably a situation that is the way it is. And you can't compare this situation to someone... having to let someone shoot each other safely in the middle of the day and count themselves and rest, and keep it going that way. To compare it to, again I say, other acts of criminality, which are the way they are, you can't put it in the same context. I don't think it's that way, I'm not saying, that I don't call the devil that it won't happen and that other environments aren't immune to such things, but still, it's something that was drastic and that can't be compared to other situations.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28620	Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28621	Well, I'm going to rephrase to my esteemed colleague, Joza Križanović. In fact, we can't accept it because the Tuzla Municipal Council discussed this situation and reached conclusions. The Vešnja municipal council discussed the floods in Tešnja just as we visited the flooded areas in Pop's field, the same thing that we have floods in Bosnia Gradiška, etc., so now 152 trails of this debate to the Municipal Council now to discuss here even though Mr Jovičić promised that we would have such a thing on the Commission. Therefore, we will see how it will react when we address it, and another thing, Mr. Kalabić: all acts, all activities that violate the security situation in BiH are equally important, there are no small and large. And that murder in front of the Police Station, or the Police Department, as it is already called, in Banja Luka is also a difficult thing, especially as it is about authorized officials, as well as the arrival of the Chetnik via Drina in Srebrenica; probably, they have come to the scene of the crime, it is very difficult, it also disrupts our mutual relations. Therefore, everything is important whatever is disrupting the security situation in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28622	I must admit you've been saving time, but you've produced three new ones. Let's go, Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28623	Look, first of all, I want to apologize to Mr. Kalabić, because he overlooked the machine guns coming. And now I'm saying he was right when he first asked questions about it. But why did I react? I reacted for one simple reason why the police caught and brought in all those who did, and I hoped there would be no more such an incident, which would be logical. But now that they've come with the machines and started shooting, it's not an accident anymore. It is a phenomenon that happens, both in Mostar, and in Sarajevo, and in Tuzla, and in Banja Luka, and for these reasons, we believe that this is a topic that should be from the aspect of the security of BiH citizens, and what Tuzla has offered, it is my fault that she sent this request and I have accepted as a member of the SDP that we bring it to Parliament, because it is simply a fact that this evidence of the inability of municipal institutions to respond to the security situation. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Oh, my God, the community, you have no idea about the structure, the community has nothing to do with the police.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28625	A little patience, a little patience, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28626	The county has nothing to do with the police.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28627	Okay, Selime, but it's in power, it doesn't matter. 153
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28628	Therefore, well, you reject the conclusions. The security situation is 100% secure, nowhere to be shot, citizens living normally, and I don't really think that these things should be discussed here. Therefore, I absolutely agree with Mr. Šemso that this issue is a general security issue for BiH citizens who have been manifested by the shooting in Tuzla from the automatic weapons Mr. Kalabić has hinted at. So I apologize again, and I think this situation should be discussed so that it doesn't happen tomorrow in other places. How? Will you accept, will you not accept the conclusions, it is a matter of this assembly, but I believe that the security situation in BiH on the matter, I would say, the procession of those who are making such incidents, which are being released, who are simply recklessly jeopardising the lives of citizens, has reached its peak and, unfortunately, Tuzla is an example of this event that has come to the conclusion that one man is in a critical situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28629	Let's move on. Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28630	Mr. Kalabić, right? What's going on in Tuzla is really embarrassing, these long shootings. But the worst that was happening in BiH, it was around Sarajevo, in this part of RS, where regular police chiefs were tied up, and then they put bombs under their cars, and I think three or four of them were liquidated. It's the most dangerous thing to do when the police connect with criminals, and it was like that on a regular basis, you know. So these great criminals were connected to police officers in Lukavica and the Palace. Well, we also have this girl who now works on TV as a speaker, who was solved in one of those shootings where some famous criminal was killed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28631	It's all ours. Let's move on. Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28632	If we go back a little bit, we'll see that we made a big mistake signing police reform in BiH. And it came out today, when you mention all these cases you mention, from Banja Luka, Srebrenica, Bratunca, Mostar, Tuzle, etc., etc., that we made a big mistake here, because we haven't made a big or real police reform that could control the security situation in BiH. Unfortunately, this reform was quickly agreed by the leaders of the two political parties and, behold, we have what we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28633	We have a problem with the implementation, but that's gonna work out, too. Denis Bećirović, replica. 154
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28634	I expected this debate to begin in a way with one fact that I believe no one can deny, which is that the lives and health of the people of Tuzla are threatened in the most brutal way by the worst possible gang. And whoever says that such gangs are also out of Tuzla, I agree, and therefore anyone here, unlike counterpart Mehmedović, suggested that we have a debate on the security situation in Tešnja, Mostar, Banja Luka, etc., I would always support that we discuss it and show the citizens a clear message that we are doing and doing everything in our power to have people safe in this country. It is clear that this is no longer an incident, but that this is a phenomenon and that it is indeed the safety of ordinary people in this country. And I must say, it's not principled respect for the SDP's club as it didn't ask, etc. Here, now we can do a listing so you'll see in the last three years how many times we've asked for a debate on the safety of journalists, on citizens' safety, on the security situation throughout the country, etc. The fact that some institutions don't do their jobs, that's why it can't be the SDP's fault. I especially want to say, and I think that, colleague Mehmedović, it is not correct for you to mention to the SDP Club that we are not concerned about this Chetnic alignment, and we are asking about this situation. I remind you here, and no one can deny that, just now the SDP Club in the BiH Parliament has launched an initiative to ban all fascist organisations, including the Chetnic, Ustasha movement and that handheld division. And as we of the SDP talked about it, some of them were silent on the subject, and so today there's no one right to tell the SDP why the Chetniks line up because we proposed it to you two years ago to ban fascists in this country by law. Next, why are we discussing this in Parliament? Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28635	To listen to each other, a little patience, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28636	... these conclusions came to the BiH Parliament by the Tuzla Municipal Council. We in the SDP have the co-ordination of councilors and MPs in both the Council and the Cantons, both in the entity and here in the BiH Parliament. Therefore, these conclusions were unanimously voted by SDP councilors of the parliamentary majority but also by all other parties, including the SDA. So the SDA council members in Tuzla are behind these conclusions. And we have co-ordination between the SDP councilors and the SDP MPs, and because you didn't seem to be informed that your SDA council members voted, that's your question now, not the SDP issue. I apologize for the 10 seconds we've been overrun.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28637	Husein Nanić. 155
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28638	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I've heard here from colleagues, MPs from the SDP, the explanation of these conclusions, and they're really human, and they need to be approached that way. I think the problem also requires attention from Parliament. At the same time, however, I also have here a statement from the BiH SDP Presidency on the political and security situation in Tuzla, and where it is said, please, "SDP will not allow those who did not receive citizens' trust in the elections through armed attacks to threaten the lives of the people of Tuzla and succeed in destabilizing the authorities in Tuzla, which is a symbol of different BiH and who want to savagely rule nationalists, criminals of all kinds." Did this opposition take these machines or, I don't know, machines, as Mr. Bešlagić says, and these announcements of the worst possible gangs – did the opposition take that and make those incidents? This is really so recklessly written that then what you want to achieve, one noble goal, gets a truly political role. Because if you say that means those who don't get trust in the election, through armed attacks they want to do, you tie the political parties, you tie the election to crime. It's probably a crime in Tuzla, and it probably has nothing to do with political parties and those who did or who didn't win the election. And what levels does that apply to? Is that, in Tuzla, there's a SDP position, there's an SDP opposition in the canton. Maybe the cantonal opposition is bringing in some kind of weapon or I don't know what? In this way, I think it is very irresponsible to write statements and they are dangerous to the state of security and all other relations in BiH. For this reason, I repeat, the noble cause and councilman that I certainly respect from Tuzla Municipality gets the stain and does not get the legal power he should have.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28639	Thank you for the replica. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28640	So my replica refers to the presentation of fellow Izetbegović. You see, when you talked about these events right around here, you were right. But you were talking about events from the past that were just like you said -- difficult. But that story ends the way it's done. One detail is very interesting: when you mentioned the employers. They were employers, right. And these employers are now and where they are and where they belong. We have a stable security situation in the RS right now, and I have to say it. So we have one stable situation. But you said something else, which you all keep quiet about. I understand that you have made an observation that this event in Tuzla has also been held by officials. You didn't add, I know who you mean. They're thinking about you, and you're thinking about them. Why don't you talk about employers, like you talked about these employers who are near Sarajevo. Right, were there, with them someone, in a way, ended up. There's talk here of that, the team of Erp and Holidej who shot, but everybody's quiet about the employers, even though you all know very well in Tuzla who the employers are. Give me a minute to open the cards. I'm interested in whether this was discussed in the Federation Parliament. The debates in the RS Parliament were very difficult, painful and painful on such issues, very difficult, when these things were happening, which 156 produced certain conclusions, certain measures, and this was resolved as it was resolved. However, I do not know if there was a debate, in my opinion, in the most important place – in the Federation Parliament. How'd she go? And why don't you open up the cards about that story, about the employers? And on the other hand, where are those praises of the prosecution and the courts? How can you get them out of this story, like they have nothing to do with it, and they can't solve it, they can't get involved. The one from Tuzla was arrested at midnight, in a pajamas prosecutor, and now, as this cannot be solved. That's right. You said the key line: the problem is in the criminal mile of employers. You're just a moment ago, all you had to do was finish the story and tell them who these Tuzlane employers were, because the SDP clearly said you were the employers. In this statement, read by Mr. Nanić, the SDP said that you arm logistics there, food, water, ammunition, and so forth, that it comes from you, and you said that you had some employers but you didn't say which. When the employers get rid of each other, you know the story down there will be over. And I think it's correct that if we want something here, which is also said, without politics to solve something; if we don't, we'll leave it in gloves and say some incidents were like this, like this. I also agree with those who spoke, last time we had here, according to Sarajevo when the same crime took place, the attack on local government, the city government, we had her here fiercely, it's the mayor's fault, like this, the prime minister, as it all was, now the local government is more protected, completely innocent in all these events. I don't think they're the same arches.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28641	Thank you. I'm retaining my right to the line as soon as the chairman arrives. But here it is, now honourable Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28642	Darling. I didn't mention anything, drago, employers. I don't know who the employers are. You said I was supposed to finish something. I didn't start anything like that. We haven't been taxed here, I think, by the SDP. People there said that those who lost power organize, they lost power on the canton, the SDP, so they don't think for themselves, do they? That should be precise, but I guess, I have nothing to say for sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28643	Please, Sadik Ahmetović, replica. Is that right or false?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28644	Well, I'll back these conclusions, so, because I don't see any reason not to support them, but there's one thesis that's coming... and this SDP statement and this story about these employers that Drago Kalabić is talking about, I think it's incorrect. According to information I have, one of our councilmen may have initiated this item of the agenda, or Councilman of the SDA, and I think... I don't know if these criminals have 157 parties. I think they're criminals who need to be prosecuted, jailed. So it would be correct for us to talk in such a way, not that this kind of statement puts us in a position to be against these correct conclusions that are proposed today. If we put this in a political context, then we won't solve the situation in Tuzla. If we're all about getting rid of him, so there aren't any shootings in Tuzla, then we'll be able to solve it faster. So, in Tuzla recently, there have been, several times, some kind of criminal miscalculation in which people lose their lives. So we have to deal with it, too. And if the security situation in RS is stable, I call on Draga Kalabić to be my guest next July 12th next year – here with coffee we will watch what is happening there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28645	Martin gave up the replica, didn't he?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28646	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28647	You've moved. Dear Member Azra Alajbegović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28648	Well, before this July 12th next year, it's a long year to invite counterpart Kalabić to help, of course, the other Federation MPs, to help find our representative Rifat Dolić's car, which was stolen yesterday.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28649	Dr. Milorad Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28650	I don't know where to start. First of all, the correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Mehmedović is not there. He said Bosanska Gradiška, there is Gradiška. On the other hand, if you're talking about a security situation and you want to talk about other BiH cities, here's to tell you, in today's newspaper, Mr. Čađo, the RS minister, says: "There are a number of indicators that suggest that excellent results have been achieved in the MUP fight against crime and that the rates of crime have been reduced compared to the previous year, and this is what the National Assembly Committee adopted." So don't worry about this part. Obviously, the problem with the Federation is, as we have mentioned several times. 158 And I think the key word here is jurisdiction. As at the previous point, we did not have the authority to discuss matters that do not concern this House, so obviously it is not the authority of this Parliament to draw such conclusions. And I will propose a conclusion in case these conclusions both go through: 'The conclusions proposed in the debate on points 22 and 23, and discussed at the 58th session of the House of Representatives, are addressed to the Office of the High Representative of the OHR to determine compliance with the BiH Constitution.'
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28651	Replica, the esteemed representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28652	Here's the vice president, the esteemed representative of Živković. So, the story of this topic won't be responsible and we won't end it if we say the situation is good in the RS and in the Federation is bad. Organized crime has no boundaries, not just entity or much wider, so, look, I thought without a replica to go through but since intervention was in that sense without me giving the grades, I'm going to say something later on about this issue through debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28653	Momčilo Novaković, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28654	Here, I'll do it very briefly. I really think we're more than tired today after all these discussions. First of all, I have to say that whenever we do contrary to some principle or some common practice, then what's happening to us right now at this point in the agenda is happening to us. So we are discussing issues that are not in the power of this Parliament, in a way, means that we are interfering in the business of others. I would understand, of course, I voted for this to come here, to come to this point of the agenda, just from what I'm about to say. In fact, we are not practicing one option, which is that these issues go not to this Parliament but to the commission and end up on the commission, not to come to the Parlamant. In many parliaments, these issues are discussed on committees, and this is where all the work on this can be done, because certain conclusions can be drawn which, of course, can also fit into the obligations of BiH, or the BiH institution, but not in a way that happens as today, are so unprepared to get into this job. Look, I've looked at these conclusions and I've seen that there's a... The Tuzla municipality parliaments and I saw that there are three or four where they can connect to the BiH institutions' competences, everything else has nothing to do with us. It would be good if this debate were preceded by a debate in 159 canton, then a debate in the Federation Parliament, so that we got here the conclusions of the Federation Parliament with their request to discuss this rather than the conclusions of the Tuzla Assembly. So, in the future, I won't support any story that has a local character. It is not correct from colleagues that, given our agreement that all these things go through parliamentary initiatives, it is not correct, it means that they are proposed as agenda points at the same session. So, despite the fact that many of these initiatives are nice to me from my SDP colleagues, I will not in future support initiatives that have local character, i.e. that have the sound of local problems. Of course, when we get into this situation, then it turns out to us now, and we're actually in danger of making certain conclusions, or that someone in these situations wants to draw some conclusions to take advantage of this position in Tuzla to take some conclusions, so, among other things, I've heard here, here, that we've reformed the police properly, now it wouldn't happen in Tuzla. Look, please. If we had done it right, and we weren't doing it right, this wouldn't have happened in Tuzla. Or, if it happened in Tuzla, we would be responsible for what happened in Tuzla, and they wouldn't be responsible there in Tuzla for what happened there. So, of course, it's not a proper attempt to use situations like this for something else. And no colleagues from Izetbegović, I wanted to say that there is not that part of Sarajevo called East Sarajevo, is not part of Sarajevo, but is the town of East Sarajevo, so it has the town of Sarajevo and the town of East Sarajevo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28655	Everything, I say again, is ours. Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28656	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mr. Novaković, you should have just said that I live here, because it would have been more important, personally in the city of Sarajevo. Thank you very much. I'll start with what Mr. Okolić said, from that mother. Well, she's not a mother if she doesn't give the baby milk. What kind of mother is she? The child doesn't know anything. She should know. What a mother not to give a child milk. Now, that's what I'm paraphrasing right now, so she's conscious, the child knows nothing at all, so that's our Parliament. We know everything, we don't know anything, we get into a situation. And just like this, then I want to remind you. You support my proposal to conclude that for terrorists, drug dealers, those who rape those children of seven and eight years – maximum penalties in the Criminal Law are changed and 40 years are predicted. And you support it. And a few months ago, there's no initiative. And I'm looking at TV experts, lawyers' chambers, I'm looking at representatives from the judiciary -- they're criticizing the system, and there's no such initiatives that they're supposed to propose, not me. So, the system is like a system, a repressive apparatus, there is no state in the world that will survive without a repressive apparatus. And it's an army (good, there's another role with us), police and justice. These are three pillars where every country survives. The country that allows it to be defeated by thieves, mobs and criminals - it is not a country. 160 Next, gentlemen, remember you, here I have to remind you all the time, I'm looking for a thematic session to just talk about security. Not when this armed conflict occurs, but to prepare the platform for it not to happen. So we say that we give a little more authority to the police, so here in the discussion I express my satisfaction and pride that the RS and police were doing well, and that reminds you of the discovery of that drug chain, 168kg, and co-operated with the police of Greece and Croatia. That's what she didn't want with the police of this country, with the SIPA; I guess they trusted the police. And I say it as affirmative, and I wish it were in every other place like that, others say that I share BiH, that I am like this or like that. So it's hard at this time when 8 and 15 listen to all this, but I have to keep reminding you of this story, so here you've told countless times that three things for this country are most important: Euro-Atlantic integration and the NATO Pact path, so today we've had this story different about it, and we've got it -- we'll still, who's guilty and not, is like this. So then the business system asked eight or nine months ago to see how we're going to get out of the crisis, this, what, so there's nothing, so he asked for these security measures. People, when a man's safe, he'll suffer a lot less, but when he's afraid he'll send the kid to school, if some fool's gonna blow him up, God Bog, or at the store, let's not look at an isolated case. The problem of Tuzla is spreading in an instant like this, as they call it, the swine flu. I don't know what they call it, when it's not like that at all, but N1H1... So this can't be stopped. The other thing, may anyone resent me, I don't underestimate anyone alive, but at least I think I know something here – security is not a static category. You can't talk about her now, because thieves always go three, five steps ahead of the police who's best equipped and armed. Well, let me remind you, I've been telling you here nicely, the Rubik's Cube wasn't designed by an academic but by a thief in a cell, so I've entertained the world and we've all played. So, let's get the story back to normal and not look at this isolated. Well, I asked the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers every three months for security to provide us with information here. So maybe my goal was to affirm the good results of the RS MUP, because they're all parameters and all those crimes in decline. But it doesn't give any security for BiH, if on the other end somewhere (such as this case now) the situation is complicated, I warn you, but those who need to work and this shows how bad our system is set up. Does anyone have the courage to say what prosecutors do there? The D.A.'s office to determine: who's the boss, who's holding the gun? Who worked there, where are our organs? And now you'll see a budget increase in wages asking for more and don't take them into law. What are these institutions of ours doing? You'll see countless of those SIPA inspectors going with these rotations out front today, so... go to Tuzlo, turn on your rotations, don't follow me, turn your rotations on there and look for those who make these miserys. That's where SIPA should be hired. That's where every ministry, intelligence, I'm proud of the results. And here, we made it, I just can't tell you everything it does, you know. And it's good. But security can't be solved by the question of Tuzla. ___________) Slavko, five minutes have passed. 161 Let it be 115 minutes, this is the most important topic. I asked you here for a thematic security session to talk all day and to have the Minister of Security, the head of SIPA, the prosecutor and everyone say their problems and see what condition they are in. And I, no matter what our problems are, I say again that we are a relatively safe country. And you know who's causing us trouble? Those NGOs, a la Transparency who says: corruption 140th place BiH, who will come here to invest something and on what basis have they established? Well, let me remind you. You know I claimed we were in 12th place. And who will deny me. The 12th place is BiH, not 145th, as they say. And thus do we make our own sorrows, and when we come to Tuzla, then we will sing: The upper Tuzla is girded by the gouja, beware that all of you are not girded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28658	Bajazit Jašarević, as the chairman would say, we are losing our bearings.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28659	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to me that considering the security situation in Tuzla Canton and Tuzla with special reference to the conclusions of the General Council of Tuzla's extraordinary session is today included in the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the prepared material invites us to support the Municipal Council and this Ministry of Tuzla Canton, but also entity ministries and possibly part of the state jurisdiction to unite ourselves on improving the security situation. We are talking about Tuzla, but the SDP's proposal at point 1 mainly concerns the whole of BiH, possibly point 2 is mainly specific to Tuzla and Tuzla Canton. I think it's good if we have the strength to support these conclusions, because they are neutral, so they're free of policies, and let alone anything else from that, and I think it might be, to think, if it's not possible to send to all levels of security authorities, that it can only be kept on Tuzla and Tuzlan canton at this time, but it would be a clear message: if we could support these conclusions today, that we support the joint efforts of the Tuzla Municipal Council and Tuzlan Canton to improve the security situation in the context of the applicable legal regulations, with the available material resources. It would simply be a good message, once we have started to discuss the initiative, to consider and cover the whole of BiH in a broader context, so another material, a different preparation, and it will likely come very quickly on the agenda. But it would be important for this statement, which Mr. Nanić mentioned today, to simply push him aside. The ones we fight can't wait for us to be unique about something. And it is important to note today that the conclusions of the Tuzla Municipal Council were reached unanimously. I am convinced that the Cantonal Assembly will also unanimously define a programme of measures to combat such phenomena. And it would be good for us today, unless there are specific reasons, for one, for some of the conclusions, but it seems to me that they are not, that they are rather neutrally written, but they could call on the authorities to make efforts within the existing regulatory and existing financial and material means so that the situation can be improved. 162 It is very important to invite the competent authorities to do their job. And that's why I got up. The SDA Club in preparation for this debate made one set of conclusions and it fits into this SDP proposal. It is simply important to invite the competent authorities but also anyone who has the information that whenever they have it and forwards it to the competent authorities, because trust simply gives the competent authorities good results, but also calls on those authorities to do more whenever possible. So, if possible, it would be good with all these remarks to support this set of conclusions anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28660	Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28661	I thank all those colleagues who have recognized what they really are in this, and that is noble intentions and that we try to come up with something that would show, however, that this home, within its jurisdiction, gives full support in dealing with organised crime of all institutions, at all levels, and that it still points to the willingness and desire of our respective institutions to identify both employers and structures representing organised crime. Here, in various discussions, there were some, conditionally speaking, conflicting views of political nature or interpretations which were different interpretations of one and the same texts. And that's not controversial, and it shouldn't stop us from bringing something that will represent a very clear definition of this home. If we wanted the SDP press release to adopt this parliament, we would have proposed it as if it were the position of this parliament, but we did not opt for it because somehow we didn't have a feeling that we would have a parliamentary majority for this statement. And that is one statement from a political party that can also be read in different ways. First of all, the SDP tried this initiative not to do anything else, but, I quote, 'ask the competent authorities to immediately discover and bring to the judicial authorities - not only the perpetrators of the attack but their mentors and employers. We don't doubt institutions. That's why we call on the Ministry of Security and the entity and cantonal organs, so there's no SDP anywhere - we invite them to discover. If that's anyone from the SDP, they should answer, as far as we're concerned, first. If there are ten and one is SDP, you have the green light to process the SDP first. No problem at all. So, if we didn't trust the institutions and we didn't want to build them, then we'd be distrusting these institutions, because they're not political, they're not being led by people from our political option, but there's no reason, so whoever's behind this. A few facts, I don't want to prejudge things, I can only tell you that what the local government can do: today the competent people of the Tuzla Canton MUP and the Tuzla Police Administration agreed to patrol the police daily on Pannonian Lake to provide this complex, because it is visited daily by over 10,000 guests. The police can do it. The police, to be very clear here, immediately identified these people, immediately arrested them by 163 and, what a strange coincidence, the man in this second case were..., shot in Tuzla and thanks to the coordination, thank Bog, did they arrest him in Zvornik. Čađo probably has a good report, arrests a man in Zvornik, because he escaped from the crime he committed in Tuzla. He thinks it's safe there. But thank Bog, with swift action and a coordinated bond between the internal affairs authorities, they found a man in Zvornik. So there's no reason not to treat it like a bit of a broader problem. Normally, I don't come to terms with it, we really apologize to those who see NGOs, and what their colleague, the head of NGOs, who are the biggest problem, who sits in this parliament and the opposition. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There, great, put that in and that conclusion, and we can talk about it. We're ready to investigate that too. If you want to add a third conclusion, your conclusion: to explore the role of the opposition and NGOs on the creation of chaos in the country. Here, let your people investigate this. We're ready to talk about it too. So we're not running away from anything. Mr. Chairman, you see, the problem here, why we initiated this, the problem is, to be very clear, it comes out of the framework of the mandate of the institutional powers of the local level and of the municipal level, it comes out of the framework of police jurisdiction. According to what we have as information, the police here have done their job. But this is about the fact that when the police do their job, an organized gang then goes to the sea, on the beach, looks for judges and prosecutors, asks them -- I want to see your face so I know who I'm gonna come to when I show up in court. Watch out, that's what this is about. It's working here that people in the judicial authorities: worse, they fear that when the police do their job, they'll be released. And it's a matter of organized crime. And that's why there are SIPAs, OSAs, state-level security departments, cantons. For your information, since we're coordinating, here's your colleagues at other levels: we've been sending this today, that today was a session of the Cantonal Custodial in Tuzla, our people in Tuzla would be doing this today, but we couldn't wait. Today the first Parliament is after Saturday's shooting in which two men were first shot from automatic weapons, from which it was fired 20 days ago, and then the killer approached, as they say, to verify the man. So this is about cold-blooded killers who think they have cover to do it. That's what this is about. And the Federation Parliament is on Tuesday, our people will come out on Tuesday, tell your colleagues to be prepared to give this information about the entity's jurisdiction. The Parliament of Tuzlan Canton when it is, our people will come out with the same initiative, tell your colleagues to get ready, maybe prepare this thing to come together, together. We don't need this initiative, because you see what this is about. The problem here is, to be very clear, organized crime doesn't know cantons. A group has recently been organized in Sarajevo, and they have been convicted. You know what the score is? That a few weeks after that, the chief of the prosecution doesn't get confirmation that he's the boss, and the chief prosecutor who ran the case, which is the proud people from the judiciary, doesn't get to be the head of the prosecution. Do you know how to read it in the public of BiH? In Sarajevo, the constantly organised criminals are at the back of their necks; and because they have political support, the punished people who led to it had courage. He had the courage! That's what this is about. 164
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28663	...you know it all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28664	Yeah, I know that, Bahtić. Yes, I do, unfortunately, know that. That shame you understand... that the prosecutor and prosecutors who brought an organized gang to Sarajevo to be punished, within a few weeks, because they did a good job, well, tomorrow it will happen in Tuzla, tested in Zvornik, and then in Mostar, and then even Čađo won't help you. So that's what this is about, and that's why we're calling on you to do something together, to send out a clear message from this Parliament, don't, write here if you mind, you RS gentlemen, any, write in accordance with the jurisdiction, there. Just to send one clear political message.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28665	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28666	I don't know, Bahtić, how did you and Bakir find themselves hit when I was talking about an organized gang in Sarajevo?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28667	Just a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28668	What have you got to do with Sarajevo? I'm Bakir and I understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28669	Just a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28670	But I don't know where you came from, I don't know. Okay, I mean, obviously, a free-talking man. It's a waste of time. What do they say, for nothing, for nothing. Clearly, clearly, I'm a snake, and you're a frog, a frog. You're okay, all right. Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28671	Bahtić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28672	So I'm entitled to a replica. Mr. Lagumdžija, it's not Sara's private business. Sarajevo is as much yours as it is mine, and I love it more than you do. And right away, we're all against crime. You know what you're talking about here. Why is there... slapping... on Tuzla between 165 of yourself from SDP? Did you write that in your conclusions? In the middle of the street. You're attacking the press and you're beating up there in Tuzla, your SDP. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28673	Just a little patience, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28674	How do you know all this about prosecutors, when you told me that you were paying for the stones, when you attacked the canton, organized here, when Samir Silajdžić and Semiha Borovac, you organised the SDP. School directors all SDPs send students, you want to tear down power in a non-democratic way. _________(?) Yes, it is. Jeld! You'll never come to power like that. You don't know anything else. You know police methods only. You're not ashamed! Your hypocrisy, your demagogy is known to all BiH citizens. He's pressing charges. There's never been more affairs and profits than when you were in power in the Alliance. That's what we all know. Now why don't you attack Alija Behmen, the president of the City Council, and Semihi Borovac you staged such a scene?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28676	Martin Raguž, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28677	I suggest we go back to this material we got for this agenda point. This is an assessment of the situation by the Municipal Council, the SDP's Opinion, and I would ask that no document, or position, is introduced here in the debate. I don't have that, that position of the SDP presidency, I'd like it to be shared if we can have a round discussion. I ask my colleagues that we be in an equal situation, because this is a serious situation. As far as this situation is concerned, the minimum we should practice tonight is that we don't treat this as a question of position and opposition. Here, this HDZ 1990 suggests and now I'm going to explain why, and we're going to give support to these modified conclusions, we're going to give suggestions on how. Because watch out, what's going on in Tuzla is happening in the entire BiH area every day. We have these cases, and they're not interethnic, they're very often within monoethnic groups, so here's from Mostar, and on top of that, all the way to Banja Luka and this isn't the exclusive problem of Tuzla. Tuzla's exclusive problem should have only served us to ask the Ministry of Security, but that's what you were supposed to do in your 166 proposal, not locate things for Tuzla. I think these conclusions are well set up, but they should not refer to Tuzla but to the security situation of BiH. Because that's why we built the Department of Security and that's why we're state agencies, they have a mandate for it. And that's why it was my intervention, here trying to stop us from some colleagues from getting involved in our own business. I think that practice should stop, at least minimally, those who don't want to support it this way, let them leave it to those who want to have an initiative and decide on this. So organized crime is directly responsible for state agencies and institutions. This is about organised crime, at least according to this assessment in conclusions, and in this sense, of course, in cooperation with entity and cantonal authorities, it is necessary to prepare the measures to be done, not by taking charge of them, but precisely in order for the situation to be solved effectively. Now, look, now it says, 'identification of employers and the structure of organised crime that is disrupting', I think the more precise word is 'compromising directly', not disrupting but directly endangering the safety of the citizens of Tuzla Canton and Tuzla. I think it applies to all BiH citizens and that should be the first conclusion. And that conclusion can be supported, and then I think that this debate makes sense at 9:00 p.m. when we've waited so long. And secondly, I don't think that employers are only tied to one political party, so let me determine myself immediately. I could be as bad as Zlatko right now and tell you about the whole opposition, but I won't. But the fact is that these days we are witnessing that not only within the countries but also regional police cooperation has led to the arrest of the largest mob bosses in Southeast Europe, so the time for those bosses inside BiH to slowly end up behind bars, here, if not for us, for our children. And will we always be slaves to that and be hostages to these and such mobsters and other organized criminals? I say immediately, we will, within our humble possibilities, fight for the rule of law and the equality of citizens before the law. And from that, information should now be received from the minister, the current or future who is here, whether there are mechanisms within the Ministry of Security as he said there are now legislative and others to fight terrorism, whether they exist to fight organised crime. That would be one minimum to say here. If there is no, what should this Parliament do to ensure that this country too with dignity is dealt with with with with with with crime, not that we are also disabled, that in this dispersion of the relationship of power and politically undefined things you can shoot a man as you wish, and that you do not bear any responsibility. And let us take this opportunity to come to the conclusion that we are all going to short-circuited/of our public and people that we recognize that security is at stake, not only in one part of BiH but in all citizens. I'm not making any exception here. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28678	Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28679	Mr. Chairman, I'm really going to try without any elaborate... 167
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28680	It's not a rush, Branko, at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28681	No, it's not, okay, I get it, I know I'm your biggest problem. So first, I'm going to try to suggest something that would give me the basis to support this. I mean, it is absolutely certain that if the goal is to appeal to all the competent institutions and responsible institutions to step up the fight against organised crime – that this should be supported. But then this proposal and these conclusions need to be modified that they have that meaning. First of all, we really can't talk about conclusions that will apply to one city or one canton, however you like. What was happening in Tuzla should be a cause, and it could be in some preamble, and then called, once again, what my colleague Lagumdžija said, competent institutions, in accordance with his responsibilities and responsibilities, to create a more organised system of fighting organised crime. And I'm just going to add something that can be called flosculo, whatever you want: organized crime knows neither nation nor religion nor political party, it has no limits either. And in that context, there should be a message from this Parliament, not a focus on one region, one city, one canton.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28682	Finalising debate on item 23. Moving to point 24. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] I've closed the debate. Moving to point 24. No, no, I've concluded before, we're going to point 24, sure, I must have figured it out before. Moving to point 24. Ad. 24. Granting consent for ratification of the agreement from (a) to (i).
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28686	No microphone 170 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28687	Slavko Jovičić suggests that we declare ourselves in the package on all amendments, so all 13 amendments. Do we accept this proposal? Thank you. The proposal to vote in the package is accepted. So prepare to vote on Mr. Jovičić's amendments, 13 amendments. We vote in the package. Vote now! This time, no luck, Slavko, it'll be a second time better. Six “for, ” 20“ against. ” We plead, please prepare to make a statement of the law. Please prepare to make a statement about the law. Vote now! We're voting on the law, in a second reading. Please, are you looking for a repeat? Please prepare for the vote on the Amendment Law and the amendments to the Payments Act. Vote now! 22 votes "yes" (20 Federation, two RS), five votes "against", 10 "abstained" Consensus later. We're going to point 9. Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović (second reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 36 "for" (26 Federation, 10 RS), without the vote "against", two votes "abstained". I agree that we adopted the Law on Sports in BiH, Proposer Denis Bećirović, in a second reading. Let's go to point 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission - Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality (first reading). So Vinko Zorić suggested the conclusions, so we'll get to them first. Here you go, Vinko.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28688	I suggest we vote individually. So there's one conclusion missing here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28689	I didn't understand, Vinko. 171
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28690	Okay, I'll do it in the package.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28691	Okay. The conclusions. So if we were to declare ourselves individually, then we'd respect what Momo's talking about. First, we would like to make a practical statement on the Commission's report. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] What? Okay. Please prepare to vote. Prepare to vote on the Commission's Report. 16 votes "for, there is no; therefore, the Commission report is not accepted, it returns to the Commission. And now practically about these conclusions in the package, they would be some kind of guidance for the Commission. Please prepare to vote on Vink Zorić's proposal for a conclusion in the package. Vote now. 27 votes "for" (19 Federation, 8 RS), seven "against", four "abstained". I find that all three conclusions of Vink Zorić have been adopted. We're going to point 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH – Proposers: MPs Sefer Halilović, Vinko Zorić, Mirko Okolić, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Denis Bećirović, Velimir Jukić and Adem Huskić (first reading). So there's a vote on the bill in the first reading. So prepare to vote on the bill in the first reading. Vote now! 38 votes "yes" (26 Federation, 12 RS), without a vote "against" without a vote "abstained". I agree that in our first reading, we adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information. Within this agenda point, we have conclusions, suggested conclusions. So, Slavko Jovičić: 'The House of Representatives is in charge of BiH, SIPA and so on. to implement all measures and actions in the charge of their legal powers and to determine the amount and cost of donations that have arrived in BiH since 1996 until today and to deliver the complete material to the Ad hoc Commission after the completion of the work." Prepare to vote. Vote now! 21 "for" (13 Federation, 8 RS), four "against", 10 "abstained". I find the conclusion of the Jovicic MP has been adopted. 172 We have, within this agenda point, also proposed the conclusion of Remzija Kadrić 'to suggest that members of the Ad hoc Commission be examined for the cost of donor funds to work on this commission without compensation." Prepare to vote. Vote! [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28695	Allow me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28696	Oh, just a minute, please. So I had the Commission's report here and we voted on the Commission's proposal and I have nothing more. What's this about?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28697	Here's the thing. Now we're in a stalemate. Since many in the discussions have also found that the Commission has not done business in doing what it was supposed to do, which is that it has not made its statement on the list, the next step is to return this to the Commission to make a statement on the list.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28698	That's understood.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28699	If that's understood, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28700	Well, that's understood. This report has not been accepted, you will return to the beginning and then you will see what you will do next. 176 Let's go, of course, let's move on. Point 19. The appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of the BiH Police Structure (it is a proposal from the Ad hoc Joint Commission to implement the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals) So we are voting on the lists set out by this Commission, taking into account also the proposal for the presidents and vice-presidents of these committees. So let's go, the Independent Committee. We declare ourselves to the members, i.e. the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Independent Committee. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 33 “for” (21 Federation, 12 RS), one vote “against”, four “maintained”. We have both a general and an entity majority and I find that we have appointed, that is, the president and vice president and members of the Independent Committee. Let's go plead out for the Citizens' Appeals Committee. So, the president, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Appeals of Citizens. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 33 "for"(21 Federation, 12 RS), 22 "against", three "abstained". I agree that we have both a general and an entity majority, and we have chosen the president and vice president and members of the Board of Appeal. Let's go to point 20. Confirming the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to replace BiH Security Ministers and BiH Deputy Chairman Tarik Sadović. So we're voting on confirming the decision. Prepare to vote. Vote now! We declare the decision of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. 28 votes "for" (17 Federation, 11 RS), seven "against", three "abstained". I agree that we have both a general and an entity majority, and that we have confirmed the Council of Ministers' decision to replace the BiH Security Minister and Deputy Chairman-in-Office of the Tarik Sadović Council. Point 21. Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics. So we're voting on a proposal for a decision supplementing the decision. You know what this is about. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 34 "for" (22 Federation, 12 RS), without a vote "against" without "abstained". I didn't even get to thank the man. So I agree... that we have both a general and an entity majority and that we have adopted a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision appointing members of the National Minority Council. So, it's about that one member, you've seen it in the materials. 177 Let's go to point 22. Consider "The Conclusions on the Harm of Anti-Dejton and Single Action of the President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadić in the State of BiH" – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović. We are voting on the conclusions proposed by Denis Bećirović. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 23 votes "yes" (21 Federation, two RS), nine "against", five "abstained". There's no consent. We're going to the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now! I repeat the vote. Prepare to vote! Vote now! Be quick, Okolić! 20 votes "for" (18 Federation, two RS), 10 votes "against" three "abstained". Ten votes "against" from the RS, we have two-thirds of the vote "against" from one entity and these conclusions have not been adopted. Point 23. Consideration of the security and security situation in Tuzla Canton and Tuzla, with particular reference to the conclusions of the extraordinary session of the Tuzla Municipal Council. We're voting on conclusions, here... now let's get this straight. So the vote on the SDP's conclusions, so we have that text of conclusions that you've received from the promoter. Any changes?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28701	Here, on behalf of the promoter, so on behalf of the club, let's just say that we accept all these suggestions that were heard in the debate. So, Mr. Raguž suggested that we delete the word "infringement", put a threat, and accept that this is no longer a local problem, but that it always stands in the entire text of BiH, and then Tuzla canton.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28702	I don't mind at all. It's not common in this way, but if the MPs understand what it's about, the service will do it, it's not a problem. If you agree, if you understand. Prepare to vote. Vote now on the SDP's Opinion proposal, with the corrections made during the debate. 27 votes "for" (23 Federation, four RS), five "against", two "abstained". We don't have an entity... consent. We're going to the second round of voting. 178 prepare to vote. Vote now! Only in the second round on the proposal for modified SDP conclusions. 26 votes "yes" (24 Federation, two RS), 10 votes "against", one "abstained" and two-thirds of the RS vote "against". The conclusions were not accepted. Here we also have a proposal for the conclusion of Milorad Živković. It proposes to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, invites the Council of Ministers to brief the House of Representatives on the conclusions of the House, adopted at 55th session, 10th. Six. In 2009, for information on the state of security of BiH in 2008. So it's about our conclusions that aren't realized.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28703	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28704	Here, I guess I didn't read it very well, here's the motionary asking him to read it. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28705	'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly calls on the Council of Ministers to implement the conclusions of the House adopted at the 55th session of the 10th session as soon as possible. Six. 2009 to discuss the 2008 Information on the state of security of BiH year.'
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-22-0.u28706	It's true, the different words, I've read the report and it's done. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 32 "for" (20 Federation, 12 RS), one "against", three "abstained" general and entity majority exist. We adopted the conclusion that Milorad Živković proposed. Giving consent to ratification... We declare agreements, recommendations and conventions under point 24, from letter (a) to letter (i). I read the names at the beginning of the session. Please, we vote in the package. Do you agree? Prepare to vote. Vote now! 36 votes "yes", without votes "against, without "abstained", a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreement, the protocol, the recommendation under point 24, from a) to i). 179 Wait a minute, I have important information for work tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the beginning of August. So, the extension of the 13th joint session is, as you know, on Friday, 15 to 11. The materials for the discussion on the implementation of commitments from the European Partnership are in your clubs. Additional materials for the DKP have also been delivered. I ask the Commission, so first of all, this Foreign Affairs Commission also to meet to hold this session. I don't have any material at the House of Representatives for the session right now. We usually have a scheduled session on September 2nd; I mean, if there's a need, please be available, so we know where you are, we'll call a session during August. The seat is closed at 21.40.
