ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26804	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 54th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, please take your seats to move on. So, I welcome you once again and I agree that we have a quorum, so there are 31 MPs present in the hall right now, with a tendency to increase the number of present. At today's session, we have a representative, or secretary of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, Mrs. Lila Đukić, because the prosecutor, the chief prosecutor, is officially absent. The absence from today's session was justified by Mr Jovan Todorović, Bakir Izetbegović, Šemsudin Mehmedović. Before completing the proposed agenda, I would like to draw your attention to two points of the agenda. So it's about point nine. Proposal for a Law on the Post Office of BiH. I would just like to conclude that, on 20 May, the Ministry of Communications and Transport submitted observations to amandman iv.e. in the Commission Report on Transport and Communications relating to Article 7. Proposal for a postal law adopted on the Commission. I delivered those remarks to you for your introduction. I can only remind you that we are at the 52nd session, 29. 4th, postpone the debate on the Proposal for a Law in order to create an opportunity for the submission of amendments under Article 118(3), hence amendments relating to new aspects or when seeking to bring two or more of the proposals under discussion. We have not received such new amendments, and I remind you that the positions (1) and (2) of Article 118 set deadlines for the submission of amendments which wish to be defended at the plenary stage or which are disputed by the amendment of the competent commission, which was 24 hours before the plenary session, which in this case was held on 29 April, which means that we are not in a business position to intervene if we would like to, when it comes to this act, so they reacted late. The following note refers to item 14 of the updated agenda, which is the Proposal for a Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. On 21 May, the Council of Ministers sent the House notice that the Council of Ministers is at 87th session, 21st. 5, concluded that it suggests the initiative of the Resolute Ministry... To the Parliamentary Assembly, the proposal for a law on the ban on discrimination is under emergency procedure, as this law is one of the conditions for visa liberalisation. 2 However, the proposal for a law had already been entered into the commission phase and the Commission for Human Rights considered and delivered its opinion on the principles in the first phase of this law, unanimously and supported it. So we have the possibility today, of course, if we impose ourselves, in accordance with Article 106(4), to decide that we are considering the proposal of this law today in another reading, so without considering it at the second commission stage, so when we get to that point of the agenda, if you agree, we can take this situation into account and try to do one job today for visa liberalisation. And with regard to the change and addition of this agenda that you've got on the benches, I'd like to inform you that point 21. The appointment of members of the House of Representatives to the Permanent Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean. Due to the alignment and additional consultations, we have listed two new points: under point 6. Proposal for a House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on the Roads of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, and paragraph 22. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes in order to bring the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of institutions adopted at both homes in different texts. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26805	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected guests, media representatives, namely, we have adopted in April here at the House of Representatives' meeting that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives will form a special investigative committee representing one representative of every political party in this house, with the aim of examining and delivering within 45 days a report containing information on all the cars purchased by the Council of Ministers' General Secretariat from 15 April 2008 to 15 April 2009, accurate prices of car purchases, the way of purchase and justification of car purchase. So, it's 45 days. We should appoint that commission. Since that deadline is near the end, is it, I suggest two variations, or today we put the agenda point: the appointment of this investigation committee or, perhaps, here I hear there are some arguments from the College, so let's see that, if not today, then at the first next session, we end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26806	Here, I thought, we were at an extended college yesterday – so I left out to keep you informed of some things – we were just talking about this topic and the result of that debate yesterday is that we got another number of names. Unfortunately, another political party has not given us a name and I hope that by the next session, I would ask for patience, 3 to the next session. And otherwise a request, so when we make a conclusion and the clubs have certain obligations to do so as soon as possible so we don't get into this situation. Here, I hope, Mr. Bećirović, that you are satisfied with this answer, or we are late, that is correct. But here's what we've got, the candidates have been proposed except for one political party, so we'll do it. So if there are no more reports, allow me to establish the agenda for today's 54th session 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 53rd session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Payments to a Single Account and the distribution of revenue by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Payments to a Single Account and the distribution of revenue by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on an indirect taxation system in BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 6. The request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to discuss the draft law on the completion of the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on the Roads of BiH by an urgent procedure; 7. Proposal for a law on public procurement (second reading); 8. Proposal for an Excise Act in BiH (second reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Postage of BiH (second reading); 10. Proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts (second reading); 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (second reading); 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Border Police Act (second reading); 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Defence Act (first reading); 14. Proposal for a Law on Prohibition of Discrimination (first reading); 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Competition Act (first reading); 16. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration (first reading); 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH – MPs Ekrem Ajanović, Rezmija Kadrić and Adem Huskić (first reading); 18. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2008; 4 19 Information from the BiH Ministry of Security on the state of security of journalists in BiH (realisation of the conclusion adopted at the 47th House session, held on 4 March 2009); 20 March 2009 Proposal for a resolution on improving the protection of the family – MP Adem Huskić; 21. A statement on Parliamentarian Sadik Bahtić's initiative from the 50th House session, held on 1 April 2009, "to task the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Civil Affairs to make a decision or conclusion that BiH's football team from the reserve fund and sports grant is paid 100,000 KM"; 22. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes in order to bring the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions; 23. Giving consent to ratification a) of the Agreement on credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Raiffeisen Zentralbank Osterreich Actiengesellschaft – Development of the Water Supply System in the Municipality of Livno, b) International Health Regulations (2005). It's the agenda for today's session. Let's go to point one. Ad. 1. The adoption of the logs from the 53rd session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26809	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, of course, and the media, almost every time, I have followed, to adopt the minutes unanimously. Last time I was against it, I'm going to give you a brief explanation. I don't think there are facts in the preamble, as it's called, about the presence of this left-hand side. Today, I must be pleased to point out and commend that the most regular in front of the Council of Ministers attended these sessions, distinguished Minister Sredoje Nović. Of course, and this multiethnic combination, the most I see, is respected Professor Safet Halilović and the finance minister who is now talking there, are mostly present.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26810	Mr. Jovičić, what are the remarks to this record? 5
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26811	Any objections to this record? It is stated that members of the Council of Ministers are present, and when someone reads it, it turns out that they were there the whole time. But they are 15 minutes, or they are the point, so whoever reads the record is as well as the MPs when you start the session, and you say you were rightly absent, and it happens in the record that 40 of us are present, and in the end, when we vote there is 32, 31. Where do our colleagues go when it's a vote? So these records, I guess somebody's going to look at them, they're being misguided. I'm not asking for SIPA to stand at the door and record when anyone's out. But the records are incorrectly kept, and they are not true about the presence of us MPs, first of all. Because we start a session with 40, 38, and we end up with 29, 30, I don't always count, so that's incorrect. And I really want to point out when the introduction there writes, I said, in the preamble of who is present in front of the Council of Ministers and some important institutions, the impression is that they are sitting there all the time, and they are not. I would really like to stress with satisfaction the most regular presence of this very current multiethnic combination and to add Minister Tarik Sadović, who, along with these ministers, is the most regular. We don't see any ministers after 10 sessions. He shows up here for 15 minutes, and he's not there. So please don't make those mistakes in the record. Thank you. I will be, again, against.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26812	I understand, Mr. Jovičić, what you mean. However, when it comes to voting, exactly how many people vote, etc. We can't expect the service to record any minute now whether someone's out or back, etc. So we're going to try to appreciate your suggestion, but, I say, it's technically very difficult to perform. Of course, I welcome the presence of this multinational, yes, threes, as you say. Okay, thank you. We're moving on. Let's move on, so point 2. Ad. 2. Member of the Commission Let's go first with comments on the answers received. I have here immediately reported Sadik Bahtić, a comment. So it's about comments. Here you go, Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26814	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, guests, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I have received two answers and am satisfied with both answers. This way I just want to thank the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the CIPS Directorate because one of the organisational units planned to locate the UN-San canton, and my question was: "Is the Council of Ministers in its 6 plan to have one of the newly formed state institutions located in Bihac, the centre of the Un-Sancan Canton?" This is a good process for me, not all Banja Luka, Mostar, Sarajevo, so the state is also in Trebinj, and in Mostar, and in Bihac, and I welcome and thank the Minister once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26815	Next reported for comments received by Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26816	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've... I've asked two questions that have been, in a way, connected and I've received two answers and I'm satisfied with what it says, but I'd just like to make a brief comment. One of the questions was that 'how many companies in BiH are registered to 1,000 people', and I got an answer here, and all MPs got, 'that in BiH there are nine small and medium-sized enterprises, and yes, for example, the Czech Republic has 86'. The question was about the business climate. I think that indeed and here in the answers is written what the Council of Ministers is doing, what it intends to do about improving the business climate, I think that this thing should be treated much more seriously, much faster and thus possibly try to solve our economic problems, and the best indicator is, I think, indirect... how many businesses there are per 1,000 inhabitants. It means that people have a hard time deciding to open businesses with us. That means something's not healthy, there's something rotten in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26817	I don't have any more answers to comment, and I have them signed up for new parliamentary issues. Mr. Niko Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26818	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I will ask two short questions. How long have activities been under way to prepare the legal solutions on restitution, and because of the public's emphasis on this issue, I ask the Council of Ministers the following parliamentary question: "What stage is the draft law on resuscitation and when can it be expected to submit the bill to the parliamentary procedure?" The second question is about the request of the House of Representatives College, which is strengthened and supported by this request by this House, which concerns the need to take urgent action to deliver the draft laws necessary to meet our requirements for visa liberalisation. And the question to the Council of Ministers is, at what stage is the implementation of the request of the College of the House of Representatives, which is strengthened by the conclusion of the House of Representatives, who are asked by the Council of Ministers to urgently submit the draft laws that are on the list of our obligations to liberalise the visa regime? 7 If we know that the session of this House was held 15 days ago, if we know that this request of the House of Representatives has been sent before, the Council of Ministers' reaction can certainly not be characterized as urgent until today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26819	Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26820	I have one question to ask the Council of Ministers: 'What are the reasons other than national that Public TV has been following with much more attention the champion of Germany's Wolsfburg than the champion of Bosnia and Herzegovina Zrinski Mostar?' The explanation is not necessary, except for a brief note that Croatian MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly were right when they sought their 'public TV service' so that they could present achievements in sport, culture and to the joy of all citizens in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26821	Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26822	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question from the BiH Veterinary Office, which reads: 'What phase is the vaccination of animals against brucellosis in BiH and what activities have the BiH Veterinary Office carried out so far and what activities are planned in the next three months?' So far, I have been asking questions about brucellosis, and I think that by actually implementing the obligation of animal vaccination against brucellosis, we will try this problem definitely and permanently and adequately to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26823	Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26824	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, my question is inspired by a recent trip on the road to Sarajevo – Tuzla and is addressed to the Federation of BiH Roads and the competent ministry, and it reads: 'Is the reconstruction of the main road planned for Sarajevo – Tuzla? (I think it's code M 18). And if such an undertaking is planned for this year, I would ask the competent institutions to deliver me a list of shares and a planned volume of work on the same." 8 I think it is a real shame and a disaster for this country to have two major industrial cities associated with such catastrophic traffic communication. I don't have any more commentary, and I think my colleagues from Tuzla Canton know better how it is this time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26825	Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26826	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question will be addressed to the Council of Ministers. As a member of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, I know that SIPA sent the Council of Ministers a revised manual on the scope and manner of implementing measures to protect people who are being protected last year. The revised manual provides significant reductions in the part of the standard measures to be taken and where there is no indication of a serious threat to protected persons. In this respect, it is also proposed to categorise protected persons as well as to lower the level of protection of a larger number of these persons. These amendments provide for a more rational structure that would ensure adequate protection of protected persons, was less exposed to the public, cost less and less threatened traffickers. It is estimated that the proposed amendments to the Guidelines could save up to 2 million KM at the annual level. So all of this indicates that we have an irrational, massive and complex and expensive system in relation to the security assessments of the competent institutions in this segment. For this reason, I say, I refer the question to the Council of Ministers: "Why is it that the adoption of amendments to the Guidelines on the scope and manner of implementing measures for the protection of protected persons is delayed? And will the Council of Ministers also adopt this revised instruction?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26827	Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26828	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26829	I'd really like to hear from you, I don't know what it is this morning.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26830	I have two questions. The first question is the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers: 'What stage of realization is the parliamentary initiative that I was in a year ago or more precisely 3. Six. In 2008 referred to the Council of Ministers on the Obligation to make state-owned information about the state of BiH, its companies and citizens in the countries resulting from the collapse of the SFRY and its activities on the protection and return of legal owners, and the almost unanimously adopted conclusion of this House regarding this initiative and the request?' 9 I was perhaps too obstinate to ask questions and to warn about the illegal alienation of this property, but unfortunately it was not enough to awaken the responsible people and institutions of this country to take steps to protect what was left of this valuable property. In particular, I have accentuated the alienation of Agrokomerac's assets in Croatia and Serbia. As you know, in February of this year Agrokomerc and the BiH state lost more than 5 million KM worth of business space in Zagreb and Split, as a result of the execution of a powerful verdict on the alleged debt of Agrokomerac to the company Astra Agrimex Sesvete. You are witnessing that I have kept repeating that there is no Agrokomerac debt to Astra Agrimex here, but in the event of the alignment of the claim and the commitments of Agrokomerc to this company has a positive balance. I would like to inform you this way that recently at Astra Agrimex Croatia's Office of Audit has carried out a financial audit of the company's operations and found that there have been no claims of the same... from Agrokomerac. I leave science from these facts to the public and those who, instead of indolence to these things, would have to react sharply. The second short question is the Ministry of Transport and Communications in the Council of Ministers: 'What are the annual collected revenues at all levels and on all the grounds that are purposely directed to maintain the roads in BiH and what was the structure of the collection and distribution of these revenues by cantons in the Federation of BiH in the previous two years?' To ask this question, I was initiated by a number of speculations about how huge funds are spent irrationally on cheap road patching, and basically it is about money laundering and financing of road maintenance companies that are regularly in close relations with parties that behave in power at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26831	Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26832	Dear Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, ministers and all present, I would like to refer my question to the BiH Foreign Ministry. In fact, it will soon be one year after BiH signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. As far as we are told in public, 10 countries have so far ratified this agreement with BiH. I wonder: 'What are the competent institutions in BiH, above all the Foreign Ministry, doing, that the remaining 17 EU member states ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with BiH?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26833	And I have another reported Mr. Kalabić. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26834	Mr. Chairman, my question is addressed to the BiH presidency: "When will BiH presidency members Haris Silajdžić and Željko Komšić accept contact and co-operation with Serbia, and thus stop harming the state of BiH?" I refer this issue to the latest scandal, the unseen, and the departure of the BiH presidency to Serbia and the shame that has been done to this country, because people have worked together in the most difficult times and those who have never understood the talks have tried. Accepting a conversation with someone doesn't necessarily mean that you agree fully with him, but stop communicating and talking in this way, and at the same time ask this Parliament to adopt certain laws, to abolish visas with Iceland and London, while raising walls with neighbours is inappropriate and I think that this is the behavior of these two members of the Presidency doing unprecedented damage to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26835	I didn't get it very well. Are you connecting the relationship to the laws on visa liberalisation and this act of departure...? But, well, it's not my question, I'm sorry, it's all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26836	So if they, if they... and prejudge things by that...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26837	We understand each other. I could answer, but here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26838	It's obviously being searched in one direction, either with London or the Middle East.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26839	Okay. Denis. Just a little attention. Please, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26840	I have one question for the Council of Ministers of BiH and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. The question is: "What, in particular, does the BiH Council of Ministers, led by the chairman, make it stop increasingly aggressive violence from the Republic of Serbia against BiH's sovereignty and territorial integrity?" What's been going on over the past few years, even in recent months, is beyond measure. And I expect the Council of Ministers to react to that. That's why I'm asking this question, because Serbia started acting again like it was... acting two decades ago. This is unacceptable, and I think that we will have to open this story at the BiH Parliament's session, because BiH intends to establish good neighbourly relations, but they are not being established by Serbia verbally wanting to establish these relations, and it is essentially working the opposite. So that's my question to the BiH Council of Ministers. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26841	Here, I'm asking you not to continue, we've already opened that discussion. So I don't have any more applications for MPs' questions and I'm concluding this item on the agenda. Let's go to point 3. Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Payments to a Single Account and the distribution of revenue by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure So, here it is, to remind you, about a law adopted on a provisional basis by the High Representative and you have seen in your explanation, or a letter from the Council of Ministers, that it should be stated that this law of the High Representative should be adopted in advance, because, in the proposal for a law set out in the next point, certain amendments are also made in Article 9 of the basic law, which is also covered by this law. So, I'm opening a debate on this request for an emergency procedure to amend and supplement this law. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate on point 3. Let's go to point 4. Ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Payments to a Single Account and the distribution of revenue by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26847	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I felt it necessary to say a few words about this bill. First of all, this bill is a further alignment with the directives, but also this bill represents an improvement in public procurement procedures compared to the current text of the Law. In fact, BiH has 13 obligations towards the European Partnership to ensure a single public procurement system in BiH and to improve administrative capacity. Also, BiH has an obligation to fully comply with the law with EU directives. At this stage we agreed to largely, we did not agree only in those parts that were objectively not possible to agree, such as electronic procurement institutes, competitive dialogue. In particular, as I would like to point out, this bill is actually an improvement and is the result of the Agency's work, with all the problems that we have faced, which are contractual bodies on the ground. I'm just saying, last year we had 850 written requests, about 4.5 thousand phone requests for consultations, 250 consultation meetings. So, all those problems we've seen on the ground, they're integrated into this bill. And, I really believe, on behalf of the Public Procurement Agency, that the adoption of this bill would be a major step forward for BiH, but it would also be a great help to the contracting authorities and bidders who directly apply this law on the ground. So we're not adopting this law because of the Agency or the Board of Appeals, but because of those who are directly implementing it on the ground. Thank you. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26848	Sadik Bahtić, chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26849	That's right. At the last session of the Commission, we discussed all the amendments again, with a total of 83 amendments. We've adopted most of the amendments. I think, too, and I support the public procurement director's discussion, because the existing law is very bad. We held a public hearing here. Those who work with the existing law are very unhappy, that is, they say it is big, and it is, a big brake and economic and social development... especially corruption, public perception because I think this law has as much improvement as it does, and there's a lot. And I call on the MPs to support the Commission's report and to vote on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26850	Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26851	Madam Chairman, and I won't be long because we have already discussed on the Commission on several occasions and I think that the current proposal... the law with these amendments has largely been agreed and improved and therefore I think that we should adopt this law today. Many amendments and questions remain unresolved, and it was difficult to face all amendments now, in one direction. And secondly, there are some technical questions left. The agency will work this out in the future, especially what was my remark is whether... whether it means electronically that we follow it, or not, whether 14 there are technical options or not, but there is one question left that needs to be resolved safely in the future. And with that question and these amendments that have been adopted, I'll tell you: I've been denied some seven-eight amendments but most of the amendments have been adopted and I think we can support this and that surely for our economy this law will mean improvement.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26852	I'm thanking you. I'm no longer registered and I'm closing the debate on point 7. Proposal for a law on public procurement. Moving to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for an Excise Act in BiH (second reading) I've already said some things, explaining points three, four and five, but let me remind you. So, at the last session, at the 53rd session, we reached a conclusion that a statement on the bill's proposal was postponed, this law, in order to obtain the opinion of the Management Board of the indirect taxation on amendments made at... the plenary stage. It is about amendments defended by Šemsudin Mehmedović, Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, and Momčilo Novaković submitted two amendments to the new aspects. We intervened, I sent a letter... intervention and, of course, the Commission asked for that opinion and we received a kind of opinion where the Management Board, i.e. the Chairman of the Management Board, informs us that it does not accept these amendments, or that it does not support them. We're practically done here. When we get to the vote, we'll vote on amendments and the law. I hope that – and behold, I see that people have signed up – we have ended the debate. I'm really asking that we respect, so the debate is over, let's go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26854	The debate and the plea were postponed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26855	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26856	Mr. Lijanović, you'll get at least an hour, just sit back and be patient, be business patient. Mr. Suljkanović, please. You're on the screen, I see you. Here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26857	I'd like to say a few words here about passing this law. Let me remind you that at the beginning of its term of office, the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has made a tremendous effort to adopt, i.e. to propose amendments and amendments to the Customs Tariff Act. We have also proposed a law on excise duties which, freely speaking, is much better than this law that has now been found before the MPs. I will remind you that we have organised several round tables to which we have invited a large number of businessmen from all over BiH. Now I have to say that we were hypocritical to these people, because we promised to try something. We tried that. Unfortunately, the Law on an indirect taxation system brings this Parliament into a subordinate, completely subordinate position, so that my proposal is to approach the amendment of the Law on an indirect taxation system, and to amend that law all that is related to excise duties and tariffs is to be passed under the Emergency Procedure Act, under Article 127. The reason is very simple. That's how we avoid frustration, at least that's how I experience it, for everything that's related to the whole process, because the laws are about customs tariffs and excises, here's what this case is, actually serve us by the system, take it or leave it. That's what happened now. All things are agreed in advance. On amendments like that. The amendment of counterpart Novaković, it was quite clear what will be the response of the Management Board of the Indirect Taxation Administration, as it seems some things, such as taxation, or excise duties on tobacco products, are simply such that they are not to be touched. I felt the need to say these few words. I hope I haven't taken up much of your time, but I would like my colleagues to listen to me and try at least for some new assembly of Parliament to provide the MPs with the fact that, when it comes to excise duties and tariffs, they are in a position to decide something. Because what we do is no decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26858	Before I give Mr Lijanović, i.e. Ivankovic's word, I am obliged to apologize. Mr. Novaković added the word "delaying and debate" and... ok. Here you go, Mr. Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26859	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, does this mean that we have the possibility of discussing today or not based on...?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26860	You're already up, you're just using time. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26861	Here, I'd ask one question first, so if, maybe there won't be any need to discuss it now if we get an answer. This letter that we received from the Management Board, I read it in detail, but I did not see it anywhere that the Management Board was sitting and that it made a decision whether or not to accept the amendments, but only informed it that it could conclude that the Management Board would probably not accept the amendments, so I would suggest that we postpone the debate and the clarification on this law until we have a decision of the Management Committee on our amendments. I don't think this parliament should be ignored when it comes to proposals, because the amendments in this House should at least deserve to be considered on the Management Board, so the outcome of that consideration should be whatever it is. And from this comes as well as some fear that these amendments are being considered on the board of directors. I don't see why he would exist, let's give a clear opinion, give an explanation, and we might even accept that view. Here, so if you can answer me this question, and... then I'll decide to discuss it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26862	You've already discussed it, but fine. So, if you have carefully read the letter, you are right, signed by the chairman of the Management Board, Mr. Vrankić, who is there and he will give an explanation. However, he referred us to this decision of the Management Board of January, which in the package assessed the need for the law to be passed and the harmonisation of these other laws. But here you go, Mr. Vrankić. I think this is okay to clarify what we've got.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26863	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear MPs, fellow ministers, guests, here, can give a brief clarification. Since I wasn't the last time, let me just say one more sentence. This law was made by a working group, which was made by the Directorate for indirect taxation, meaning its Management Board. She worked very long, almost a year in various combinations and extensions, to ultimately achieve consent on the Management Board, and previously we got the consent of entity parliaments to this solution, because that is how the law provides. So the entities have come to terms with this law and given it absolute support. In that combination, which you're talking about right now, all of these things that came up here as amendments and dilemmas were in the first stage where we discussed and manifested ourselves. So we discussed these things very intensively, because there were these proposals within the board of directors' working group, and here I even have to say that there were no entity parliaments, or their committees, who, by law, must give their views and opinions. I based it on this, because each of these things was discussed on the Management Board as a previous issue, before the law was passed, and since I assumed it could be such a question, I asked the board members to show themselves, and first of all those who have the right to veto, i.e. Ministers, to be clear about this law and I have received written answers from both entities not to support any amendments, which we often practice, means to make a written statement. In this context, there are 17 power sessions of the Management Board that we verify at the first session, so that you can, in peace, discuss it. So, the board of directors has been considering and does not support any changes to this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26864	Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26865	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I was given up, since the chairman said there was no debate, but once the debate was opened, then I would only use a few sentences.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26866	I apologized, Momo. I even apologized. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26867	Just a few sentences to say. In fact, it is true that the Management Board did not have a session and did not have these amendments at the session, so that is correct. The fact that he once, the task force had similar suggestions, that's another thing. But that shows the respect of Parliament. Look, this is Parliament's conclusion here, and I guess this Parliament was older than some working group and than the Management Board, and it doesn't seem to be, but also from the Management Board, or entity ministers. So, the Management Board was supposed to follow the conclusion of this home, which is to hold a session and write what he wrote. I knew it wouldn't be any different. Look, the matter has been arranged and negotiated, as the minister said, in the task force. We've been getting a lot of stuff here from working groups, so we've been changing the amendments. Some of them were less, some of them got more into the pockets of the company of private, state, public, etc., but we changed them here, which didn't mean, which doesn't mean that the board of directors shouldn't have analyzed it here either. What is very interesting about these letters, or the statements of entity ministers, who have the right to veto -- is that none of them spoke about amendments, but that the working group had brought and agreed. Nowhere has any amendment been commented on in a way to say that this amendment would reduce the budget of BiH or increase the budget, which is unacceptable for the Council of Ministers. Here, Mr. Lijanović has proposed amendments that would increase Budget, I have proposed amendments to keep Budget somewhere, i.e. budgets for Budget remain and excise duty remains somewhere on the same level. This is how the Management Board should analyse the amendments. I knew that she was a working group, it says when we got the law that she was a working group and that the working group had agreed and the entities had agreed, because neither Džombić nor Bevanda would have given their consent to the board of directors, etc. It was all clear to me, I know that part, I know this because I participated in the adoption of these laws. So, it's not serious, I just want to find out that the board of directors didn't seriously approach the conclusion of this house and didn't seriously approach the analysis of the amendments. Of course, anything else you'd say, talk about the amendments, last time I spoke, I don't think it makes any sense after this. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26868	Jerko Ivanković, you can have a discussion and a replica, whatever you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26869	Thank you. Here, I will read a paragraph from the memo, from the letter of the Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, where he finally says, "I do not support the proposed amendments, and I am delivering this statement so that the Governing Board can unite and refer its position to the session of the Parliamentary House of BiH." So, he delivers his opinion to the Management Board so that the Management Board can take his opinion at its session, take a decision on amendments and give an opinion on the amendments to the House of Representatives. And in a second letter from the Federation minister, he, for example, does not mention at all the amendments that I have submitted, he only touches the amendments of counterpart Momčilo Novaković and comments on him. I don't think we should ignore this parliament and this Parliament's proposals that the board of directors shouldn't ignore it. I think it may even be a problem for the adopted law to be brought down later in the Constitutional Court, because we got the Opinion, because we didn't have the procedure fully respected. That's why it would be good for us to postpone this until the next session. The board of directors, as far as I got the information, will have a session tomorrow to decide on the amendments. I do not see any reason why he is afraid to discuss these amendments, so that he sends us some memos from the board of directors and that at the next session we will adopt both the law and any amendments, in accordance with the opinion and explanation of the Management Board. Because otherwise, we could do a lot of damage to pass some law that could be brought down in the Constitutional Court tomorrow, so all those who paid something will have the possibility of getting their money back and making huge litigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26870	Replica, Niko Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26871	Thank you, Mr. President. I could agree with many of the debates that have been brought here today about disagreements why we even ask any board of directors when we're passing some kind of law. I really mind that, probably, more than you do. I can imagine how much the Minister of Finance and the Treasury minds that the entity ministers have to ask for every move that will be proposed here in this House, so we've prescribed here some who call for it to be done in earlier times, and these entity ministers have nothing to ask him, but nothing at all. When they propose to their parliaments the laws, then it does not exist. It is in accordance with the laws that have been passed here in this House. 19 And Mr. Suljkanović, I think he's headed in the right direction. We finally need, if we think we need to change that state, and if we think we can provide support in this House, it means to exclude: if the State Minister of Finance doesn't give any consent to the entity ministers on their bill proposals, I don't see the logic that he's looking for their consent, and we just make the same principle, the same standard, means. Although it would make sense for me to have the entity, cantonal and municipal heads of finance ask the State Minister of Finance what they can, and what I can't suggest, but here we have it upside down, and then we would now be giving a lecture to a board of directors who isn't guilty. They have been established in accordance with the law, act in accordance with the law, give their opinions either as individual or as such. Because watch out, individually the chairman of the board of directors can give. It is therefore not correct to set up accounts or boards of directors, nor the Minister of Finance and Treasury, but it is correct to enter into the process of amending the legislation that produces such a situation and then really ensure that this Parliament really considers proposals without having to seek any prior consent from anyone, or from any board of directors.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26872	Replica, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26873	Well, I have to tell my colleague Lozančić that it's not as simple as he just said. In fact, when we entered into the reform of the entire system, it was quite clear that every decision or every law here regarding the budget relates to everything, including entities, later on to municipalities, etc. So it's impossible to make decisions here that won't have an impact on entity budgets, especially decisions, which directly affect the funds that go into a single account. And then the entities signed the agreement, we remember well that agreement, we talked about it many times, which they defined and we then translated, or adopted the law where this agreement was translated into law, which means that until the change of that agreement does not change the legislation. So entities must change their agreement, based on which the law can be amended. That's the way. I just want to put in this phase that I believe you accidentally skipped, a colleague of Lozančić's and a colleague of Suljkanović's, so you accidentally skipped that condition, in a manner of conditionalally transferred jurisdiction. But it has nothing to do with what we're talking about right now. No Niko here accused the minister of doing anything, but we were just saying that there was no board of directors and nothing else. Watch out, and there was no board of directors and he wasn't discussing the amendments, and that's what to say. Whether or not he had to, whether he felt like a minister, any member of this Governing Board to this Parliament, is one or the other -- it is now a done deal. We're probably finishing things by this law today. I just want to get into the record, I'm not even asking for the conclusion that it is; so, the board of directors has not been sitting down and has not made a decision on the amendments. We're going to make a statement today without it on this law, because obviously... that some other things are more important than those we've proposed to the amendments. Here's the thing. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26874	We're not going back to this deal, but here we go. Let's go, Selim Bešlagić, discussion. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26875	The esteemed chairpersons, respected colleagues, respected guests, well, I didn't think I was discussing, but since the debate on these matters always leads to the fact that, in fact, this Parliament's decision-making decision-making has no option whatsoever, except that it is the Administration for indirect taxation that makes it, I think, by forming the Fiscal Council that we have made it possible, I say, that this instance of this Parliament to be moved aside. But this Parliament, and whenever we talked about these things, this Parliament had one request: when amendments are made and supplemented on excise duties and customs rates, it was always required to be presented to us by this Directorate for indirect taxation or by the Council of Ministers to the state of what is obtained, how much is lost, how much is lost, what the new change contributes in the course. I, as far as I'm concerned in this House, have never received this analysis once, although when we introduced the VAT, it was said then that, I don't know, six months later, they're going to run an analysis just like they're going to do with excise duties and customs. Therefore, the conclusion is very clear. I think Niko is quite right, but Mr. Novaković is right, too, that we can't run this unless we have the consent to change this constitution in this part. And for this reason, I would ask, if I may, the Council of Ministers to consider this possibility or simply to launch an initiative, to which we can get an answer: whether it can be changed and that this Parliament is responsible for this policy. The other thing, what we can certainly ask for, is that in the next stages changes to any law, when it comes to excises, customs, etc. – deliver an analysis of what it means to change a certain excise rate, which means to change a certain customs rate to at least give us indicators and indicators on what it is that the Directorate for indirect taxation and what it is, let's say, the finance ministers of the entity and the Brcko District need, or what they advocate to do with these changes. I think we can also make such a request so that no one will challenge us to get those indicators so that we can focus more easily on these things. For these reasons, I think one of the conclusions could be: it means that in the following analyses we have to have an analysis of the changes and the addition of these rates from the aspect of the financial situation so that, if there is nothing else, we can participate in seeing why someone will not impose a excise duty on high-tariff goods, why. If I can get money there, I don't see why I can't do it. But here I think this conclusion could be binding on the Directorate for indirect taxation, which means that it does an analysis of the changes and the addition of what those in terms of finance mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26876	I suggest to Members who mention the conclusions, etc. If they're going to make them and deliver them here when we plead on this agenda point. Let's move on. We have Mr. Vinko Zorić's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26877	I'll be very brief. So, I think that we should after..., did, one exhaustive explanation by Mr. Minister, in the first reading, when he said that the law compromises all 21 compromises within the working group and then said that the Management Board for indirect taxation would not accept any significant amendments. I personally, you know who you were and in the last session, just enough not to say, I screamed and invested amendments around lush oil for heating. And this solution is part of the solution, so the users of lush oil will credit the state again, but thank Bog we moved from one place and I accepted it, I didn't invest the amendments. However, the amendments tabled are, let's say, good or acceptable in part, but they are selective. We can't say here that, I don't know, one product in front of the factory costs cheaper in a country than here, we have other products that cost cheaper in some other countries than in front of the factory here, and these are much more expensive products and much more luxurious products than mentioned products. So, on behalf of the party to whom I belong, HDZ 1990, I say on behalf of my colleague Raguž that we accept the law, we accept the Commission's report and we will support the law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26878	I have more Bajazit Jašarević reported. Here you go, Mr. Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26879	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to state the position of the SDA Club to support the text of this law. And, given that some assessments have been made here, we would like to say that today is a good law for BiH, that it will help in this time of recession, that certain improvements in the law will be, certain shockers of the overall state in budgets at different levels of government. When it comes to addressing MPs, no address should be rejected because ideas are bright, but we must accept that they must be supported by the majority in the procedure prescribed by law. That's all it is. Each of these ideas, and all of those ideas that we have already presented in the procedure, should be the subject of our interest and that we are creating most of it parliamentary, regardless of who is the position, and who is the opposition, and in the subsequent amendments to the law some of these ideas will certainly find their place in the law. I think it would be good to say that we have received a law that is progressing in relation to the current Excise Act, that we have obtained a law that is in accordance with the laws on the excises of our neighbours, countries in the environment, and that it will introduce absolute order on the market, but also partially protect domestic production. We, of course, are not satisfied but we think today would be a clear message that we have reached agreement on a valid solution. What I'm about to say is, it might be better to shut up, but I mean it. If we didn't need to have the position of the Management Board of Direct Taxation, today the results of the vote would be the same, because the entity's views on the progress of the Excise Law are equal only once expressed in this House, and the second time before that in the Indirect Taxation Authority. We are absolutely aware that if someone would now allow us to ignore the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, that we would have the support of Parliament on this agreed 22 packages, and if we started to share on the amendment, the overall support of the law would be questionable. I think that we have made a good step, that we have obtained these laws by emergency procedure today in parliamentary procedure, and that is therefore one small sign of our efficiency when it comes to any support for the BiH economy and I call on all... who here have expressed a certain reserve under this law to change their position until the vote and to support today's law. If we had the right, it would be good to invite the House of Nations to adopt the law at one session in both readings, to take effect as soon as possible, and to apply it in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26880	Jerko Ivanković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26881	Dear President, colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, You, the chairman, try to run this house professionally and on certain principles and I appreciate it very much. I mean, if we were to vote on this law today, we'd be putting in place a principle that the House is declaring something that according to the law must have the board's opinion, and we don't have it today. Introducing that principle, I don't think it would be good. Because if my amendments are not adopted today, I will turn them into amendments and additions to the law at the next session, or to someone, and then I will ask again to declare this law without the opinion of the Management Board. So I'm going to ask that this principle that we adopted today to plead something without the board's opinion will then be a problem, because you're going to say it, but we don't have the board's opinions and we can't plead it out. I also appreciate the efforts of Mr. Minister who, in his letter, wanted to bring the whole process forward, made a contribution to this law to come into force as soon as possible, but objectively, it would not be okay for us not to implement the law that is in force and the procedures that are now in force, however bad they were. When we change them, then we'll respect the others we've changed. For this reason, I repeat the conclusion: 'A discussion and a statement on the Proposal of excise duty laws is being postponed until an opinion has been received from a session of the Management Committee on Amendments to the Proposed Excise Law.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26882	Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26883	I have to replicate my colleague Jašarević, although he himself said it might be better if he didn't say that sentence, so I guess it was better if he didn't say that sentence, namely, that the vote would be the same. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26884	I'm sorry, Mr. Lijanović, there's no delay in the debate, we're not having a five-time debate once in a while. So you can't delay the debate, the debate is under way. You can plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26885	But the problem is when we get an opinion...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26886	You want to argue one more time, don't you? Okay. Here you go, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26887	Chairman, you're confusing me now. So it's our very accident that we're going to vote the same, have or haven't had the board's position. Look, I think these people on the board of directors mean they know quite well, so they don't even bother to finish the job and hold that session, because they know that we're going to vote today, whether we have or not had the board's position, and that's the problem. It's not just what happened before... it's... Parliament's problem when it comes to this issue, but this is also the problem with the functioning of this Parliament, but it is. Therefore, party attitudes must obviously be respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26888	Replica, Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26889	I thank you, Mr. President. As for these requests from Mr. Lijanović, on many occasions repeated, that we do not have the board's position here, I would just like to remind ourselves that we have heard here a clear view of the President of the Management Board that representatives of procedures can decide peacefully today, so here is just that we have in mind and that we are doing something and we are making laws and strengthening...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26890	Eh, I have later registered... for discussion, according to my own good practice, Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26891	Mr. President, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, well, about eight months ago, I had submitted an initiative to amend and supplement the Taxation Act and, behold, after a long time - I hope there have been a lot of discussions in entity governments, i.e. the Resort Ministry and also in the Department of Impeccable Taxation - we have received this bill that already, here, we delay its adoption. And I think it's still what it was possible to do, how good or bad it was, we talked about it the last time, and here and today we keep talking about it, and I think we should be aware of all the facts that this 24 moment was not possible to achieve more, or to reach the agreement and consensus that everyone who decides to do so, that I'm not repeating it now, but what's agreed on. With the financial effects of this law in mind, I last spoke of them, who daily something about a little less than a million marks, I think it's a shame to lose every day in extending the deadline for adopting this law. And that is why I call on all my colleagues and colleagues to adopt this law today, and that everything that we think is not good enough and good enough in this law, and there are such things, should, of course, be re-opened by everyone's right, each of us MPs, and Jerko and your right, among other things, to run it, and to start all of us and to talk about it and ask the Administration for indirect taxation – the Management Board consent. When we get it, it'll go, etc. Is 100% formally, as the law says, consent has arrived? I think it is, especially if the chairman of the board of directors tells us. Therefore, we should not doubt that. I think we should adopt this today, and then in the next period, the damage is very great if we don't adopt, in the next period we should look for better and even better and better solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26892	Mr. Jovičić, one moment, please. So, our guests, the participants of this first Conference of Parliamentary Authorities to oversee intelligence services in Southeast Europe from Romania, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia, asked for a few minutes to be in the hall, to welcome our parliament a little and to see how it is done, and to hear Mr. Jovičić's wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26893	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26894	Well, of course, now you'll be discussing it when people come in. Here you go. Here you go. You can, Marina, here's the front row. Go ahead, go ahead. Marina, so put them in the front row, no problem. Here, let me, then, once again welcome our dear guests and wish them a pleasant stay in Sarajevo and a successful work at this regional conference and for these services to be under civil supervision, so to speak. Here, Slavko, you have a chance to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26895	Thank you, Your Honor. I'll take the opportunity to welcome the distinguished guests, because I'm supposed to be with you, but since you've been denied for my discussion, you'll hear little now, although these listen regularly because I answer often. So, when it comes to,...we definitely, the Honorable Chairman, must express the impotence of this House. Countless times, 25
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26896	It's not exactly our best commercial.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26897	Well, of course, we've said countless times contesting these, they, here's the Directorate for indirect taxation. By supporting Mr. Lozančić's discussion and all of these procedures, which is why and, of course, what Mr. Jukić has now said is that every day indicative estimates say that we are losing a million marks, I would like today that instead of this, we have an analysis of how we will be aware of public spending under the IMF arrangement, all municipalities, cantons, entities, states in deficits, inflows of funds in accounts, so it is least important that the account will be paid if there is something to be paid. Here's what this really is today, so in normal countries parliaments have permanent sessions, and the IRS can't meet and today we're writing them a tariff order. When will it be their turn, when will they get along, when will they sit down? So when was this excise law? A few months ago. And he, I said then, when he first entered the parliamentary procedure, was superficial. I ask everything if only on three, what would I call it, items, I don't know any more, three things that law defines? Cigarettes, so we talked about cigarettes, got a little bit tired of everybody. Oil, okay. But a chain reaction to the collection of all products will cause, we need to be aware. Well, then we talked all about it. And what did we get today? Got a superficial bill. That's why I didn't make any amendments, because I know management's gonna say no, and then I'm powerless here. Why, people, are we afraid to tax luxury and countless luxuryes around us? Well, we're a luxury, too, MPs. If I didn't say this, the press will write, you know what they'll write about us, thank Bog, nothing affirmative. So no matter how we adopt this today, and I'm not about to break over our knees, and that's not why, people, we're putting it off forever. Is there any money in this country that we can save ourselves? This year in the first quarter we're close to 3 billion marks in the deficit. What's gonna happen to us? If anyone is wondering, and I will repeat again, although it is not related to this law, on November 3rd I get the consent and support to hold a session to see if we will survive economically and there is nothing. Normal states, he says, parliaments in a permanent session. And let us see this when it will come into effect because every day, such as Mr. Jukić, a respected colleague, said – we are losing, people, money! And the money can only be taken on luxury, gold watches, yachts, fairies, cars, over 100,000 marks. Why are we afraid to tax it? That's why the superficial law of this, it's superficial and the Board of Direct Taxation and the Management Board didn't take care of it, really, but they're back on the fairy system, again the poor one who smokes, last time I told Drava, now I won't, now I'm going to tell Drina Sarajevo, not to be this in the... sense of what I'm getting, as I'm used to telling the company to Drava, but it's understood by all normal people, so why are we afraid? Here, guys, I'm smoking Marlboro and I'm telling the public to make it 20 Marks of Marlboro. First I'll leave cigarettes for health care, because I won't be able to pay that much, and we're afraid of that. We won't, people, come out of this crisis, we won't get away with it, and we have an extraordinary opportunity and a chance. Why? Because we're not going to pass a law on the fight against luxury, against ourselves. When I say against myself, I mean not just the MPs, but all this elite, so-called. Newly combined businessmen, especially thieves and mobs – we must, people, stand by the neck! How? Taxes. In America, you can rent TV to tell Obama what you want, but you can't pay taxes, it's 500 years in prison. Well, are we going to learn something from someone, not just listen to 26 here Bajden do something political? Let's get out of the crisis economically, and then we'll define everything politically. And that's why I'm asking the Directorate for indirect taxation to sit around all the time, if necessary, although our minister is really effective and he does everything. Indeed, thank you, do, I follow it all. But these other guys need to be pushed a little bit. Does Parliament have the strength to tell the Council of Ministers to complete this by a certain deadline, not a delay indefinitely. So, when do we have it? Before the vacation? No one in this House should mention, say the word we're going to go bankrupt. This country will not fail, it must not fail. Not because of us, for we are the guides, but because of the people of the righteous and the citizens who expect us to create something for them, and we create nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26898	I don't know if I heard correctly, did you mention that to the vice president of the United States, he asked for you. Let's go to replica. Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26899	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to remind us all that, on the day of the entry into force of the Law on the indirect taxation system, the introduction of any indirect taxes in BiH must be approved by the Committee. So he doesn't have to give an opinion, but he has to approve. That's a significant difference. If we dispute the procedure because we don't have an opinion, it could be challenged when we need an opinion. We don't need an opinion, we need approval. When you're not given approval, it's not given. So it's not given, it can now explain those who know the right better. So we didn't get clearance. I think that is the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission in the report: that all the conditions are met to decide today, not in the way we would like, but in the way the conditions are met. And I have to say this. No matter what we think about what we have now in BiH, this provision in the law was the condition of this reform of the indirect taxation system. At the mark of many, one of the best and most successful. With all the problems that we have, I don't think we've gotten the conditions to change it yet, but there have been conditions to get into the process of changing it, so let's see if we're mature here to preserve that tax discipline, or there's got to be some independence and some more active entity involvement. I think today can be decided and all the conditions are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26900	What are you going to do, people forget how difficult something has been done, etc. Let's move on to the replicas. Mirko Okolić. Here, I apologize, here comes the minister, or you can hear everything. Okay. Mirko Okolić, replica. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26901	The replica, Mr. Chairman, is a respected colleague of Slavko Jovičić, who said: "If a tobacco tax and cigarettes are raised through excise duties, he will stop smoking." It will not be good for the state, because the law is not proposed in this sense that it stops smoking but that it collects as much revenue and as much budget as possible. And if he's going to stop smoking, it needs... some other law and so I don't think Jovičić should be jeopardizing the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26902	Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26903	Well, I would ask my colleague Jovičić to finally stop confusing the Bosnian-Herzegovina public and MPs and guests, here are guests from neighbouring countries, from the region. As an MP for the ruling party and a member of the ruling coalition, it would be good to make sure that, at least six months at least, this parliament is awaiting a debate on the economic crisis and on the global recession and its causes for the BiH economy and six months we cannot even open the story. Therefore, my colleague Jovičić, I would like to ask you as a representative of the ruling coalition, which also has its ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers to at least try, use your influence, to open the debate. That's what I'm telling you... one of the people who...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26904	Just one moment, Denise, just one moment to escort the guests. See you, thank you, good luck, cheers, happy work.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26905	So you take advantage of, colleague Jovičić, your influence and we finally get on the agenda these essential questions you're talking about, but I'm afraid what you're saying is just verbal support for opening up essential problems, and in reality you don't seem to have any effect on us really opening this issue here. And this is a real topic and a key topic for the citizens of this country, but you'll agree with me that six months we can't, here, get that agenda on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26906	Here, the guests are gone, let's get our home stuff in here. Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26907	First of all, the replica of the esteemed colleague Okolić. I'm going to force myself to quit smoking, and I'm going to pay taxes another way, because there are people who need help, so the cigarette comes as a comfort because of this crisis so they don't end up on neuropsychiatry or something else, God Bog, so there's going to be higher costs. 28 And as for the presentation of Mr. Denis Bećirović, I agree only in one fact, I have no influence in the club, to be clear once. Now, in a party even less, in Parliament even less than the first two, none, because if I had in the Council of Ministers, I wouldn't mention them, I don't have anything, because if I did, I would have... at least they would have realized it since 3, I repeat, in November when I asked for a joint session of both homes to discuss a recession that lasted since the end of the war, only no one, I said, has told the people. So, Mr. Bećirović, all you had to do was put this in an explanation, and your preamble is good, and here I'm going to explain that I have no influence anywhere but the media and a little fun for the people, and I'm not into demagogy. It's really in my best interest that this people live well. And if you know my statements that will remain recorded in Parliament, I am sorry that these colleagues have gone, in neighboring countries, I like to see them live well, and I see that they live well while they have taken the diaries and come to us to learn something. So, I like everyone living there well, but I prefer that we live here well. Here, my children, my passport, I only have these lands, my luck is nowhere to travel, that's what my influence is, and that's the only time OSCE pays me expenses there I'm going somewhere, etc. So, all I agree with is what you said and you're asking me now to put pressure on someone. Mr Bećirović, support me and all my colleagues in Parliament to say who will come out here for a pay phone and say: we will only discuss economic issues and how we will survive. So that's the point. There, are you satisfied? I don't have any influence from today, and I haven't had any until now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26908	If you please, Mr. Jovičić, your initiative has been supported and adopted by Parliament and Parliament is in trouble, not you. So, Parliament asks Mr. Vrankić, Mr. Špirić, of the gentlemen of the Council of Ministers who delivered us two pages of paper – I hope that they listen very carefully and that they are a little uncomfortable here – therefore, it is not a problem with you, Mr. Jovičić, be sure, but the relationship is with Parliament. Husein Nanić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26909	I thank you, Chairman. I don't know, here's a replica of Mr. Jovičić's exposure. I don't know how to take his exposure – serious or fun, as he does otherwise. Three things I couldn't keep quiet, for the first time I kept quiet, for the second time I didn't, that fellow distinguished guests of ours called out to pick up their journals and travel somewhere. It's really totally irresponsible, irresponsible. I don't think that's how we contribute to the quality work of this House. Secondly, that we are a luxury in the first exhibition, as Parliament is kind of a luxury, and they are not cigarettes, etc., and that we are working in the first place. I really ask you to control yourself in your statements and that these statements do not personally contribute to you as an MP and to your authority, especially to the authority of this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26910	I don't think there's any need, Slavko. Well, of course, but there's no need, I think the way we started talking isn't okay. He didSlavko mean it. It's his way. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26911	I didn't, the Honorable Chairman, meanfully, don't Bog.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26912	You don't ask me for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26913	But I want to affirm how these countries... and MPs live better, that people there, and we can do better than them. We can do better than them. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I see some things, so we can do better than them. And I didn't act like I wasn't serious. And today I will say for the first time that I have never lived as well as I have now as an MP, never, and I have never had less responsibility, and I should have the greatest responsibility for the people today. Well, you say what you want, this isn't an election year and a campaign for me to promote myself. I'll criticize myself, and why. Because when I start, two days when they hear there's a session of people opening the Internet, which I can't live with the people that I don't know, from the cords, from the kinological associations, I don't know what people are getting sick of, says, "Will you put this country on your feet?" And all these are the problems of this country and the problems of which we carry the burden, gentlemen. And thank you, Mr. Chairman, for clarifying that it is not my fault, but the responsibility towards Parliament and the Council of Ministers and those who need to come out with measures to better live and get out of the crisis, that is the essence. Oh, no, God Bog, that I'm using the lazier here and underestimating here, but I'm just warning you that we're not responsible for our people and our citizens, that was essentially my story, to the extent that we should.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26915	Well, of course, you need to understand your picturesque way of expressing yourself like that. Let's go, Sadik Bahtić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26916	I'll just take a minute. I had a discussion last time. It's just that I'm going to call on this parliament to adopt today means the Commission's Finance and Budget Report, because this proposed law is not perfect, but it still brings us new revenues, the effects are cca 300 million, for roads 120. We know what public works mean, investment, employment. Luxuz is not all covered, I said last time: boats, boats, cars – but, my Bog, there is time and what is proposed at this point is good, because it brings us new revenues and I call for us to adopt this law. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26917	Mr. Vrankić, will you stay on board if necessary? Please, please, make sure we don't open the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26918	I'll try. Thank you very much. Here, I'm only going to ask once more to make a positive statement today about this law. I think it is the interest of all, and I declare under material and moral responsibility, as it is said, what I have expressed is the position of the Management Board – that it is the position of all members. In the meantime, I have also consulted with members of the Management Board who stand by this statement of the previous and absolutely do not think that it should be used as now some manipulation in that section whether it has been declared or not. This law, as my colleague said, is 300 million marks. So we've already lost half of them, because it's been half a year, at the annual level. We've been keeping an eye on people, about everything, this isn't a law on the protection of domestic production, this isn't just a law on collecting income, this is something in between. We talked to all BiH producers, maybe it's incorrect to say, everyone was involved in this law. Between the dilemmas we had, we listened to what variant we would take. Because when you put it all on the scale, put it in the computer, completely different results come in than when you're talking, when you're talking casually. What we didn't do, what we don't talk about, and what the people would say, my soul hurts for it, they have two things. We didn't treat agriculture through this, because we couldn't, we didn't create conditions for it. There's no register of agricultural holdings, as they say, no land register, we don't know who we're gonna give it to. If we gave everyone that they could pour fuel to say it was for a tractor or something else, we'd get an evac and lose all possible income, we'd come to the opposite thing. Another problem that stands when it comes to non-alcoholic beverages: in the EU they are not even burdened with excise duty, we still are. That is why this part that we have treated in the European way, tobacco and tobacco processing, which are excellently proposed and because of that part that is fixed and that is changed each year by the decision of the Management Board, means that there will be an increase in the next five years that needs to be leveled with EU countries. During that period, we need to relieve ourselves of the burden on these non-alcoholic beverages so that we can achieve that part the way I feel we should. And here, I don't think there's any reason why you shouldn't believe this. Normally, the law can still be fixed. When it comes to luxury, just one more sentence. Entities were not in favour of spreading further burden on luxury, because they do so through direct taxes with their entity laws. And it's a direct and clear attitude and we have to accept it as such. All other multiplication by simple mathematics – increase something from one to two that is twice as much – is the wrong account and please do not use it. It's not perfect, it's much better, it's much better quality, it's progress, it's 300 million marks per year. We'll see an analysis after, here, a certain period and there will be any changes, if necessary. Thank you very much. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26919	Thank you. Here, I don't have any more reports. I am finalising the debate on the Excise Law proposal, paragraph 8. We're going to point 9. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Postage of BiH (second reading) At the 52nd session, we also adopted a conclusion that delayed the debate and a statement on the proposal for this law, in order to create the possibility of making new amendments, etc. I remind you that the Commission has adopted 14 amendments contained in the Report and have become an integral part of the proposed law. However, on 20 May, as I said in the introduction, the resolution ministry submitted a comment on the already adopted amandman iv.e. The Commission, which I delivered to you for the purpose of meeting, therefore, and in the plenary phase, and before the 52nd session, we had amendments to Šemsudin Mehmedović and Milorad Živković which are current. And after that, we no longer received amendments to the new aspects. I think it was important to mention. I'm opening a debate on the Post Code proposal. I have a report from Remzi Kadrić. Here you go, Remzija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26921	I thank you, Chairman. Therefore, it is good that you have also noted in the opening remarks of this observation submitted on Amendment IV. to Article 7. The proposal for a postal law which the Ministry subsequently delivered after the Commission for Transport and Communications adopted certain amendments which form an integral part of the proposal for a law. So, let's not open a debate about this, when you read Article 7. The bill's proposal is truly contradictory, vague, ambiguous, multi-sensual, so for these reasons it was really very difficult to put an amendment to such a member who is in itself ambiguous. However, I believe that this amendment, which has deleted Article 2.3 which has become an integral part of the proposal for a law, is still considered to be... this Article 7 is less ambiguous, less contradictory. And for these reasons, these subsequent remarks that came from the Ministry were, in my opinion, unnecessary. They could, if there were indeed some reasons, agree within a certain time limit with the amendment's proposings, to be seen, to intervene in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But when everything is summed up and taken away, I think that... and many provisions, other provisions of the law are contradictory to each other, so we've come into this rather awkward situation. All the time, I think the proposal that passed in the Commission is to make it a good proposal for a postal law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26922	Branko Dokić. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26923	Mr. Chairman, I, too, will say a few words on behalf of the Commission, or as chairman of this committee. I would like to point out that one part of the amendments that went past the Commission had, how can I say, a consensus we agreed on, and these are amendments that were supported by the Ministry. The other amendments, including this very controversial system of voting, were not part of the Commission's members for this. We've really had one specific situation right now. First, the ministry was immediately against the amendment. Now we have a situation that both entities, that the entity ministries, are in charge of this issue and of one and the other entities in writing, have delivered, which is why this amendment is unacceptable. All three postal operators delivered in writing to the Ministry why such an amendment is unacceptable. I really can't handle this situation right now. Now two sentences on behalf of Branko Dokić, MP of the PDP in this House. I think it would be worth the effort to seriously consider, perhaps even if there are parliamentary, business opportunities, some modification of amendments that, as you said, are still current to pass the law. So here's the discussion, I say, if there are options it would be... useful and if we care to pass the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26924	Well, of course we do, but we're really quite limited by business opportunities. We also discussed at the College, asked the secretary for help, etc. So in a way, we're in a very, very delicate situation. And I very much appreciate what you've been talking about and Remzi. So there's a mood to not make mistakes and to get out of this one right way. But here, we'll see what else we can do. I don't have any more reports. Finalising debate on point 9. A bill of mail. Let's go to point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts (second reading) It's about another reading. We got the report on May 25th. As you have seen, the Commission has adopted three amendments that have become an integral part of the law. And in the plenary phase, Milorad Živković defends four amendments. So, I'm opening a debate about this law. Here, Slavko Matić as chairman of the committee. Here you go, Slavko, if I'm okay with this. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26926	Yes, Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, here you have already mentioned that the Foreign Affairs Committee discussed two days ago the amendment to this law. Of the eight amendments tabled, seven could be said, given that VII is. The amendment, as proposed, by counterpart Živković – identical amendment that I have proposed. Of these seven amendments, the Commission accepted three, two of which had both agreement and a positive position and the foreign ministry. For this III. No, but the extenuating circumstance that all three amendments, which we have accepted, have been accepted by the vast majority, seems to me, unanimously by all the present members of the Committee at this session. There is a problem with amendments that have not been accepted at the Committee, and you have announced here that counterpart Živković has expressed his desire to defend them today. With these amendments, we can obviously be in danger of the law not being passed, which I'm holding out so it wouldn't be good. The law in this text certainly reduces progress in relation to existing legal solutions for very practical reasons, because certain deadlines that apply to applicable legal acts are significantly reduced, in a more clear way establishing the procedure for the conclusion and implementation of international agreements and contracts, although there is probably room for further improvements to these legal solutions. But here, given the fact that I know the content of amendments that we haven't accepted at the Committee and about which there have been very different reflections, I'm afraid it's going to be today at the House of Representatives, and that the final result may be that we don't accept the law, which I don't think would be good. But here, today it's very difficult to influence this outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26927	Thank you, Mr. Matić. I don't have any more reports. I am concluding the debate on item 10, so the proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. We're going to point 11. Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (second reading) In the second commission phase of the draft law, the Commission adopted the proposed text. Šefik Džaferović has filed eight amendments that he defends in the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any charges to argue with. Finalising debate on item 11. Let's go to point 12. 34 Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the BiH Border Police Act (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26932	Well, let me say, past certain announcements, that there would be a need, that there would be a need for certain amendments, so here's my suggestion that we don't go to another reading today, but to go regularly, so here's what I've come up with, and I'm going to personally try and make amendments...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26933	Of course, of course, you'll plead according to the proposal, you won't vote for the proposal, and it's okay, there's no problem. Let's move on, so point 15. Ad. 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Competition Act (first reading) It's about first reading. The Council of Ministers delivered it on 29 April. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has been responsible. We were given an opinion on May 22nd. The Commission supported the principles of the proposed law. So I'm opening a debate about the law in the first reading. I don't have any charges to argue with. I'm closing the debate on item 15. We're going to point 16. Ad. 16. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26937	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26938	I'd like to ask you to be patient. Here's a break, if we're going to be at 2:00, because we're at the limit of the quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26939	I'll be pretty short. You probably remember all the laws that I proposed two years ago about denying, minimising, etc., holocaus and genocide and, reading certain materials from these sessions, then I saw that most of the debaters who at that moment couldn't accept the law, in fact in such a form, were actually willing to support the law in amendments to the law... actually criminal law, so waiting for a certain period needed for... the return of certain legal... provisions in the legal procedure, then we three colleagues proposed amendments to the law on additions to the criminal law of BiH, which actually refers to matter... which we already discussed, which is a Holocaust, genocide, crime against humanity, etc. And that actually their denial is kind of sanctioned. I think this law should be supported first and foremost for moral reasons, and I have no doubt at all by colleagues sitting here not to support this law for just one reason, which is actually constitutional matter that
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26940	Please, Husein, just one moment, we're missing, we're gonna lose the quorum exactly. Here, I sent a secretary to call his colleagues. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26941	He's talking about rights, about human rights, so there's a member that says that you shouldn't hurt anyone, actually, and there's no greater pain than mental pain, and there can be no greater pain if you tell someone something didn't happen, and it happened to him. It happened to his kids, it happened to his cousins, it happened to his friends, it happened to his acquaintances. So that moral value of us as MPs and me makes me think that we will uphold this Criminal Law. However, nothing this law adopts only because of moral obligations, but also because of the legal norms that we need, which bind us to certain international obligations that we, like this Parliament, have ratified and signed a resolution on the denial of holocausts, a UN resolution that has been signed and ratified by this Parliament, then the Additional Protocol on the Convention on Cybernetics... and the criminalisation of acts that we also signed as a state, and not only signed but as this Parliament ratified. This obliges all of us to pass a legal standard that will deny the existence of a Holocaust and genocide that we must adopt means a legal standard that will sanction people who say there is no Holocaust or that there is no genocide anywhere, which the International Court has adopted as a final legal norm that was genocide. And the third thing that leads me to believe that this addition of the Criminal Law should be accepted and supported is actually international practice, because in Europe 11 countries have passed laws on the ban on the denial of holocausts and genocides and, mainly, the only country where genocide took place, that is BiH, has not adopted and has not sanctioned its laws, either in one way or another, denial, banning genocide, holocausts and other crimes related to this matter. That's why I think, since this is the law in the first reading, there's no reason why we shouldn't support this law today, so before there's a constitutional basis on a number of grounds. On the other hand, which doesn't require any financial resources. And on the third hand, the majority of MPs in previous debates have pleaded to regulate this matter through Criminal Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26942	Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26943	Mr. Chairman, here, I'll try to be brief, not getting into the essence of this story. I think all MPs are fully agreed when it comes to these categories that they should find their place in certain solutions. However, I think everyone also agrees that these are too serious topics to come to their use for daily policy purposes or their politicisation. The SNSD's club has repeatedly said that such solutions should cost the entire parliament, the Council of Ministers and others, meaning when it comes to things in BiH that are sensitive to nature. I think it is good, such as this matter, such as holidays and similar things, to agree around them and not to be the exclusive right of three MPs of one nation, or three MPs of another people, but to be a joint proposal, especially when it comes to amending the Criminal Law, given that it is one of the most significant laws. One of, under 38 alleged signs, the heavy laws on which many experts work and always changes the score in such laws are very sensitive. It's not good, so even though we don't deny it, and we have the right to do business without other institutions, to change and pass laws, it's not good to do it in this way, without the Council of Ministers' participation, without the involvement of experts, without the participation of the Justice Department. That is why our proposal is the conclusion that we delay the statement of the proposed law. Since also in the earlier debate when we had similar proposals, it seems to me, Mr Ajanović, there is one letter and the Council of Ministers' position that they are ready, means, but in a different form, they probably assumed this form, that they are willing to participate and make their contribution. And I think this is now a way for the Council of Ministers to participate in the creation of this solution in full capacity and ultimately to reach it. And I will make that conclusion on behalf of the Club and propose, so that we delay the statement on this law until the Council of Ministers' opinion is obtained.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26944	I thank the esteemed representative Kalabić. The following has been reported by honourable representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26945	Thank you. I won't talk too long. Most of what I was about to say was said by counterpart Ajanović and counterpart Kalabić. I fully agree that this is a matter that should not be politicized and I really don't access these amendments to the Criminal Law in a way that, or I think I'm saying to myself, I can say, on behalf of my colleagues that we would get some kind of authorship, and I think that the author of these changes should be Parliament. So, all of us here together, because I think there's a consensus, my colleague said there's a consensus. And the question is, in my opinion, if we hadn't adopted today, or in the procedure if we hadn't adopted this law, as we would have sent a message to the local and the world public, because this is a ban on the denial of holocausts and genocides, and these are the things that, in my opinion, are European and world achievement, and all the countries in which the holocaust happened have passed the law. There are 11 of them and Switzerland whose territory wasn't there. I think that both BiH and because of the genocide ruled by the International Court of Justice in The Hague has a moral obligation towards victims and Holocausts and genocide to sanction such acts. I agree that it would have been better if the Council of Ministers had proposed, but since it hasn't already, here's why I don't see why, here, I suggest that all Members of Parliament take the authority, I really don't want to be a team here. So I suggest we support the first reading of this law, any changes. I'm not in a position not to accept in the amendment phase changes that... will likely be, of course, aimed at improving the text. So, I would accept everything except that I couldn't really accept as a man, as an MP, the fact that eventually if this Parliament could refuse such a law and I think we would send a very ugly message. The message would be read if we would deny... the holocaust. I don't think that's anybody's goal, that we don't have the right to do it and we don't need to politicize this thing. It should be simple and as counterpart Ajanović said when 39 was first launched an initiative on the new law, then it is said, I think, even counterpart Kalabić and his party said they would accept no special law but to make changes to the Criminal Law. Here, we did it. I think we need it without a big crowd, without a big story, a score or a no-point, it's not a pre-election year, it's nothing, we just need, I think, to adopt this law. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26946	I thank the esteemed representative Huskić. Replica, distinguished representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26947	Just so we don't get it wrong. I, when I was talking about consensus, I was saying that there's a consensus between us, that this issue should be regulated, but not that there's a consensus that these solutions are the good that you're proposing. So I wasn't talking about this kind of consensus, I was talking about the need to... but I said, by that I meant that behind that consensus, as legislators, we should all stand together with the Council of Ministers. I was talking about it, as no wrong message will be sent because, if it is not good in BiH, if no one but three MPs wants to work on this, it is not good if everyone else is against it, allegedly, and only three MPs, and I don't think so. Here it is a little bit, here, let's say, about some uncoordinated activities that look like this, not to dispute the right, and I think this conclusion that we can, because we're doing changes to the BiH Criminal Law without the participation of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice, I mean, I'm not going to say it's irresponsible, but I think they should participate, they have something to say about this. Because you have terms here that are very interesting for BiH. Some of the terms discussed on the Constitutional Legal Commission also mean in a certain sense, very professional terms which... probably experts and experts have something to say and how they will be defined and whether these are the best definitions for BiH. This issue should be opened, meaning at one high and professional and expert level together with all the others involved. You know when we've been making these changes who's been involved, just for the very reason this law is important. It's important and the amendments to Criminal Law mean that, and I've talked about it, and I think that we're close to agreeing that this should be done with the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26948	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26949	Thank you. So when I was talking, I said that we didn't go from that this is the final text and that this is the best possible solution. So there are and we are aware that there are better solutions and because of 40 we think that we should open up the possibility that these better solutions should be proposed, that we adopt them, and the only way to do that is to support the principles at this stage, means in the first reading, and in the next period to fix it. And we are, personally, ready to accept all well-meaning suggestions, any improvement in the text, I am convinced of other colleagues, because otherwise we will not get to the quality text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26950	Thank you. The following was reported by a respected representative of Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26951	I thank you, Chairman. So let's absolutely remove some dilemmas here right now. There is absolutely nothing questionable about including the Council of Ministers and experts and experts in the phase of the amendment and making the most quality bill in this area. Therefore, when it comes to these things, there is absolutely no need to question it. We don't take it upon ourselves to be the ones who create ourselves such a position... that we are the only owners of this business. So let me just say some things at this stage. Therefore, Chapter XVII of the Criminal Code describes 31 crimes against humanity and the values of protected international law given in the description of these crimes. We are therefore merely suggesting that two more new crimes be introduced within that head, which would be, – Everyone,... – into one crime: “Any one who publicly approves, deny or hardly reduces the crimes of genocide, holocausts, crimes against humanity, war crimes against the civilian population established by domestic and international courts, will be punished by prisons from six months to three years.” It's one crime described as a new crime. Another crime is: 'Whoever distributes or otherwise makes the public available... through computer, media, electronic or other systems of material that denies, significantly minimises, tries to justify or approve a holocaust, crime, genocide and crimes against humanity established by domestic and international courts, will be punished by a prison of six months to three years.' We thus propose a description of these two crimes. We gave priority to the term holocaust. Of course, if people who are of the profession can propose a better definition at this stage of the amendment, nothing is disputed about all this. So I really don't see any reason why we don't adopt the bill in the first phase and open these questions to pass one quality law in the next phase, not to repeat the reasons that the other two legislators spoke of, the esteemed colleague Ajanović and Huskić, and indeed it would be harmful, would be a harmful message, a bad message not to accept the principles of this law today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26952	Jozo Križanović. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26953	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it's really hard to be against sanctioning, denying holocausts, genocide. It is therefore difficult to be against the adoption, that is, the introduction into the Criminal Law and these acts. However, here is one real question of one, I would say, our bad practices. It is difficult to explain that three fellow MPs propose... a delicate amendment to the Criminal Law, conditionally speaking, whose minister of human rights is, etc., it is difficult to say that this problem is recognised in Parliament, and not recognized at all in the Bosnian-Herzegovina society. It's hard to enter, you know, criminal provisions without the opinion of a particular ministry, let's say the Ministry of Justice. So, what am I saying? We will support this bill, but there are very many reserves, you know, and I can fully understand my colleague Kalabić. So we create an atmosphere good for the law, but we won't lose anything if it's delayed for 10, 15 days, either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26954	I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate on point 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements... Criminal law. We're going to point 18. Ad. 18. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2008 We got the report on April 17th. Information is for 2008. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion to us on 11 May. The information was received by the Commission and the Commission proposes the same thing to this House. In the opening remarks, I said that the prosecutor, the chief prosecutor of BiH, was at an important meeting and that Olivera Đurić, the secretary of the Prosecutor's Office, was present, in case he had any questions or possibly any clarifications, although I was in agreement with the Secretary of the Prosecutor's Office to register it, she did not have much authority in that regard, that she would register all the issues, all the observations and transfer to the Prosecutor's Office, and in later time we would also get the prosecution's views on our possible issues and considerations. But here, I have a reported Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26956	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SNSD Club, I would like to say that at the beginning of the session you mentioned this point and you said that there will be no prosecutor present today during this debate and the SNSD Club feels that it would be useful and complete to postpone the discussion of this item of the agenda until the moment when the prosecutor can be present because we have many questions and we want the prosecutor's answers, with full respect for the person present in front of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. But in order for us not to be correspondence 42 with the prosecutor, we are therefore asking on behalf of the club to postpone the debate, whether for the next or the next session there, but means to ensure that the prosecutor's presence is ensured, and then we have a debate on this information.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26957	Well, then we should do it this way. (Of course, here, and Mr. Jozo Križanović applied for the debate.) So now I've consulted with the secretary, and we'd have to ask the House now if he's ready to discuss it without a proposal. And if the House decides to argue without the presence of the promoter, then it is debated; and if it does not decide, then we would postpone. As far as I'm concerned, I understand your reasons. Mr. Križanović, we should do it now, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26958	It wouldn't be bad.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26959	You see, Mr. Križanović, if you don't mind, we'll set ourselves up on this club request. It is therefore possible to discuss business if the House decides to discuss itself without the presence of the promoter. If he doesn't decide, then the debate is delayed until it's secured. We had to put in some business.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26960	Let's see if we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26961	Yes, we are practically deciding whether we will continue the debate, given the fact that we do not have the Attorney General, and that the Secretary of the D.A. has no authority in terms of the answer Mrs. Marković was talking about. And I have consulted the secretary, and he proposes that we make a statement immediately because it will depend on whether we continue to discuss it or not. So please prepare to vote on whether or not we will conduct a further debate without the chief prosecutor's presence. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! [[Common discussion]] Please excuse me, get ready to vote, I've been talking and I've lost it. Vote now! 10 votes "yes", 14 "against". 43 Therefore, the House is not prepared to hold a further debate on this report without the prosecution's presence. So, it's being postponed for the next session. I'm asking the D.A.'s secretary to immediately say that the session will be, we planned, June 10th. So here we announce ourselves 20 days ago practically. _________(?) That he's not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26965	It would be a good idea now if we could say it consistently and postpone this debate while there is no security minister. Indeed, it is my initial proposal, so please put this proposal to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26966	I still think these two things differ, but here, I'm sure this house can lead the debate without the minister's presence, but here I am, of course, obliged by the MPs and to check this out. So, do we want to hold a debate on Information without the presence of a resolute minister? Please prepare to vote. Vote now! And this proposal by Mr. Denis Bećirović was accepted, which means the debate is being postponed for the next session, right, Branka, June 10th. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26967	June 10th, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26968	And I hope Mr Sadović will also be able to attend this session. Let's move on, point 20. Ad. 20. Proposal for a resolution on improving the protection of the family – Proposer: Ambassador Adem Huskić We had this in procedure. We agreed that it should be done by the rest of the ministry, etc. and I am pleased to say that this has yielded fruit and that we now have, in practice, unanimously supported the motion for a resolution, completed and unanimously supported the proposal for a resolution to improve the protection of the family in BiH and that the Commission is proposing that we adopt it. But here, I'm opening a debate if there's any need to discuss it. There you go. People appreciate it. Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26970	This is paradoxical, Mr. President. I really don't think there's anything to discuss, and on the other hand, I feel like I have a moral obligation to say something.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26971	You express your satisfaction that this is how it's done, and it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26972	The satisfaction and gratitude of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Secretariat of the Commission for Human Rights, the Commission for Human Rights, and I don't know if I skipped anyone else, the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly, thank you all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26973	Thank you. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26974	Well, my debate is similar. So, what he took from me, I won't repeat it, but I thank my colleague, Huskić, who proposed this resolution. He selflessly offered some 45 other MPs to be co-signator of this resolution, but praise is worth the fact that this resolution was made, encouraged and created in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26975	Here, let's just wait for the vote, and then we'll officially commend Mr. Huskić. We're going to point 21. Ad. 21. Declaration on Parliamentarian Sadik Bahtić's initiative from the 50th House session, held on 1 April 2009 Let me remind you that the initiative was in the sense of "in charge of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Civil Affairs to find opportunities, namely a decision or conclusion that BiH's Football Team from the Reserve Fund and the Sports Grant was awarded 100,000 KM." As you have seen, the Commission has supported and delivered the initiative in a further parliamentary procedure. Here, I have a report, it's probably in this style to thank those who supported it. Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26977	Yes, the initiative was also on the Finance and Budget Committee and... The Commission has accepted... The day I submitted the initiative was played by the BiH team in Zenica. I think this is the least the state parliament could do for the BiH football team that achieves excellent results and best promotes the BiH state, is our ambassador, have real chances of getting into the stock market and qualified for the World Cup. And we know what it means in every field and in the economic field. I believe the Council of Ministers also has a modus as well as others. I think this is just fine. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26978	Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26979	I thank you, Mr. President. Regardless of this announcement of yours that we're going like a last wheel, I might change a little bit. Respecting the initiative and arguments Mr Bahtić made, it is absolutely one of the best sights of BiH's presentation, but the question opens here is whether this parliament can set out 46 and how to single out anyone in terms of BiH's presentation and on the plan of sport. And in that sense, I think that we should remain on what is the official policy of the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that passed regulations and regulations. I'll remind you that a tender for this kind of application for all sports alliances and organizations has been completed these days. At the Council of Ministers' level, it is run by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and I think that a project to support the Football Team of BiH should also be valorised, putting it in context from the position of all other associations and alliances. And I'll remind you that some are in a much more difficult financial and organisational situation than the Football Alliance that has both rich sponsors and media and each and every one, and let it have, and every other kind of support. And I'm personally involved with some people in support, through certain sponsors, and I'll continue to be, but I think we should think very carefully about whether we should exclusively seek the only financial support of the Football team. I think that counterpart Bahtić will understand this argument, because it does not dispute this initiative, but should be put in the context of the position of the alliance, co-financing and the role of the state and this parliament in their further development. I think that we should stay and ask the Ministry of Civil Affairs for how sports alliances and projects have been treated for this year, especially since this competition is ongoing and what is the realisation of these funds so these days on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26980	Here comes the game. Branko Dokić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26981	Mr. Chairman, I'm a little abused by this position of replica. They usually turn up for a replica when they need to attack someone, I do the opposite. I am reporting for the line so that I will not discuss it afterwards, and to say that I am in the full range of this debate on this issue and that it would be good if Parliament did not put itself in a position to plead at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26982	Replica, Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26983	Well, obviously, my colleagues realized that nothing was exclusive. And so far, the Council of Ministers has helped in a certain way with greater amounts than this. I believe that the state representation of BiH that achieves excellent results deserves, and no problem, may that be the whole Parliament's position, but I think that is the least we can do. You know when a game is played to forget all the problems, all the euphoria, and I hope. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26984	Here, we've got Slavko Jovičić, the tied-up player, let's go. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26985	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if I'll have the first time, speak for the club, imagine, not for myself. So, on behalf of the SNSD Club, I'm proud to have that kind of authority. So let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26986	And it was an effect, it was an effect, but it was just a moment ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26987	Well, of course, much more serious. So, let me get one dilemma straight. I was rooting for the BiH team when she was playing in Zenica. Well, they always say RS doesn't want anything. _________(?) [[Common discussion]] [[no microphone turned on]] I'll answer later, eventually, for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26989	Can I have your patience, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26990	No, these are good, they give me initiatives and ideas about how I'm going to improve the debate further.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26991	Then let's wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26992	So, once we had a long time ago, and it seems to me that I asked a parliamentary question, that the prosecution and SIPA, when those fanatics, as they are called, are fanatics, not only they are called, they have demonstrated for a reason, but they should not have been making riots against, my permanent term, thieves who have robbed and there are no more indications than there are evidence that the Fubed Alliance of BiH has suffered huge damages because of the unconscious, as economists, business and management of the management, and very important sports organisations that promoted BiH. The only problem I see is that naked Srbin, unhappy, in Gacko, I can't think of what he was defending, but it's a good thing he came here from Serbia to defend for BiH. Oh, it's very affirmative! And well defended, thank Bog, saved all that there. Now, I support what Mr. Raguž was saying. If Parliament constantly takes responsibility to award this and rewards, and I would like it to happen to stimulate our athletes, to be at least in something 12, 24, not to be 126, because I don't like the number or, 48 I don't know, 150. So we have such opportunities to stimulate other organizations and help them. I'm not, I repeat, against helping the Football Alliance, but I think that they are the most resource-efficient and able, and through marketing, and charging tickets, and all other activities, but there are priority sports organisations that have affirmed BiH, achieved a huge result, which have been neglected, and no one is helping them either. They don't have any sponsors, they don't have budgets, they don't have donations, they don't have these extraordinary rewards. Well, I don't think this should go into some habit of giving me an ad hoc when some good... What are we going to do tomorrow, if he loses, God Bog, the BiH team will demand in a row that they return 100,000 of these marks to us today with interest. And I wouldn't want them to disappoint us. So, the thing should still be this Council of Ministers to see from which funds they will find these 100,000 marks. Can we really get wasted in this situation, and I repeat again, I don't think they're in such a financial crisis that they need these 100,000 marks to help. First of all, I don't know what they're going to spend it for, if it's a reward for every football player, coach, that masseuse, so we say, here's what we're rewarding you for getting those results, you share it with each other. Is that then a prize to the Football Federation, the administration to raise wages? Is this buying new equipment? No Niko for a purpose knows what these 100,000 marks would go for. What would they do with that money? So, I'm not for these -- I'm for giving, of course, and stimulation, and support, and to affirm both sports, and the country, and all that in that frame -- but not ad hoc. Catch us, people, euphoria after three wins, and then, when it comes to defeat, we defeat ourselves. We don't need to live out that elan and the enthusiasm just for three or four months, but maybe this would be good if we said: we will reward them if they qualify to go to the European Championship and the World Cup, so we can mobilise them even more, to say, "Look, these will give money if we're stuck." But now maybe they'll take this, so two games, because they're all stimulated well, mostly that team is all made up of those who are well-supervised and all their honors. And aphirmize the country by other clubs, here's the one with the 3.5 thousand inhabitants of Germany's champion city, all of us having fun about the misery, a miracle, where we're lucky to be placed among these countries, who have these stronger representations, to that championship, and then to stimulate them, and not after two or three results, and then we're disappointed. If they don't, what do we do? That's why I don't think we should go to Parliament like this with these proposals, they're as good as proposals, but let the Council of Ministers consider whether it is possible to find any means, whether other organisations that are in a difficult material situation are helping, which have also affirmed BiH. And here, if someone doesn't get me wrong, that disability team, they need help, and I'm talking here as a man, we have to be people, and at least we're people, to realize that these people gave body parts no matter where they were, I'm not talking about it, and they're still giving and sacrificing themselves to affirm the country. If such organisations need much more help than those who have materially secured themselves, thank Bog they are, and they should play for BiH out of love, not that we will help them with 100,000 marks, it is small for them. They once sign the contract solve the whole problem of the existence of their next generation. So I don't think that this should be supported in this way but returned to the Council of Ministers, so if they find any money or wait for a better version of some better results, then let's say, "Here you are now, you've earned it, you've affirmed the country, it's an honor." Thank you very much. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26993	Replica, Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26994	You obviously don't read, sir, your colleague, the materials that the Council of Ministers has helped various collectives so far, and with much higher amounts, that's what offered me. Because I've read and 200 grand is given to those who don't have any results. And I guarantee that it wasn't... this that the Council of Ministers probably wouldn't give anything for, they have private, but as the Football Alliance claims they don't have any money, they have nothing. We're state lawmakers here, I guess we're interested in our national team achieving results and qualify for the World Cup and half the world will know about the BiH state then. It may not answer to someone, but that message is a clear message that the BiH state is participating in the World Cup football, and these guys deserve it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26995	A little patience, we're at the end of the session, please don't lose the quorum. I have a replica, Branko. You were, too, drago, signed up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26996	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26997	Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26998	Well, here, very briefly, is enough just to support the request of selector Blažević for, about, no, no, in Banja Luka, but about that contract for television transmissions, it's worth a few million, you know, so these 100,000 don't mean anything by it, and that's what my colleague Jovičić was talking about, what's going on in the Football Federation, and maybe we could discuss what's going on. A football alliance? Is the Fubola Alliance, as an organization, embarrassing itself to the national team? We could discuss it, and I think it would be worth it, and separate the team from the Football Federation itself. And football players play well, but the money you're about to give to the Alliance, if I understand correctly. I mean, what I'm saying, if I get it right. That's why I don't think we can support this. I want to say that my kolega Jovičić spoke on behalf of the club and that we are... pleased with his discussion. And I am pleased to note that after working breakfast with the new president that Mr. Džaferović was present here, this breakfast lasted a little longer this morning, but the new president is the president.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u26999	As far as I know, Mr. Džaferović is not having breakfast. And we're going to Branko, Branko Dokić, replica. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27000	He's a replica of his colleagues, Bahtić. I would like to remind myself that in other sports BiH is also achieving excellent results. Unjustifiedly, there it is, and the public is little known that BiH entered the 2nd group Davis Cup in tennis a month ago and achieved a fantastic result. So she's in, she's already qualified. Is it necessary to remind you that individuals provide personal means to achieve such success? And the tennis alliance has determined to go towards this ministry through the competition and thus seek support. So here I mentioned a sport where everything is regular, where the fantastic result is, again I say, where BiH has entered the circle, has already entered the circle of 32 countries of the world and will play that cup. And they didn't ask for an exception.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27001	So we continue the sports section. Mirjana Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27002	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's a little weird that I, as a woman, opt for a debate or a replica about this issue. But I'd just like to remind you that in this country, first of all, we haven't had a solution to the question in the legal framework of top-notch sport in a long time. Secondly, we have many more sports organisations or individuals of enthusiasts who achieve far greater and worldly recognition of results. I am grateful that I came in line after Mr. Slavko Jovičić, because it seems to me that much more weight was his insistence on the status of our national team in the sitting volleyball, which has brought this country several years ago also Olympic gold medals, so we did not have such an initiative, and I think that our discussion here today is without reason after reminding Mr. Raguž of this contest which is in progress and on a fair match and transparent allocation of funds to which all sports associations or associations are entitled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27003	...the discussion of Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27004	I must first say that I was one of the MPs when we discussed and adopted the Sport Act here, which proposed a concrete amendment that should legally regulate the issue of funding top athletes. Unfortunately, this amendment, which we have referred to on behalf of the SDP Club, has not been accepted, unfortunately. And we haven't obviously solved that problem the way our neighbours and other European countries have solved it. We are now being brought here to show ourselves about this initiative: either we will support it or we will not support it. I still think it's a symbolic gesture, but these 100,000 KM won't solve the problems of financing the BiH football team. But also, when we have opened the debate 51, why not say that this BiH football team is really the light of BiH that represents us in the best possible way both in Europe and in the world. And what's the least we can do is help them. How and how to help them, it's a question we can talk about. Of course, if we separate certain financial resources, we need to know who they're going to, who they're going for, who they're going to follow, how they're going to end up with. So, it is quite clear that they should and are right about those colleagues who have spoken about it: to separate really footballers who achieve top results, from Misimović, Ibišević, Džeko, and so on, the Nemanja of Supić, so that we don't get all of them. They also show politicians in this country how you can move forward when you work together and unitedly. However, these successes should be separated from very dangerous phenomena, not to use now severe terms of crime, etc. They have competent authorities to examine this, but it is evident that it does not work when it comes to that part of the team. Someone mentioned the BiH Council of Ministers. It may not be an opportunity to be within this agenda point, but it should be said that the Council of Ministers' really inadmissible attitude towards sports and top athletes. We could open the topic today of how many top athletes want to play for the BiH football team, not only in football but also in other sports, handballs, etc., and how many years and months wait to get BiH passports. And if that were happening in other countries, believe me, in seven days we'd get a passport from France, Germany or some other country to defend the colors of their country and their representations. Unfortunately, that's the way it is with us. Sadness was also the example after our great victory football against Belgium, when the high representative was rebuked with BiH's joke and when he was happy, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, not to repeat what he said on that occasion, looked like he looked, and at the moment of little joy for the people of this country he made some statements that diminished a truly great victory that did not resolve the question of ours, whether, in those qualifications, but gave hope and encouraged the people of this country. So I think if the promoter stays on whether or not to support it, the SDP Club will support it. However, it seems to me that it may be a more meaningful conclusion that we here are in charge of the Council of Ministers to consider how we can really support the representative parts that achieve the ultimate successes. In the first place there should be pointed out representatives in the sitting volleyball that have achieved the greatest successes, here mentions someone and Davis Cup etc. We don't have much resources, but let's do one, let the Council of Ministers figure it out, the Resort Ministry, deliver it to Parliament, so what we can, at least, be symbolic means, to support the best in this country. This is what other countries do, and perhaps this debate and this initiative is an opportunity for the resolution ministry to consider that this amendment, which I was talking about, is the amendment of the SDP, and how to legally reward top athletes – to include it in the law someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27005	Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27006	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, you see, today we have one, let me say, extensive debate on a relatively peripheral issue. The problem here is that Parliament enters a single zone of its incompetence. The task of this Parliament is to pass laws and to exercise control over the application of the law. I'm not gonna take up your time, but I'm asking you a question about what it would be like now that my colleague Bahtić has an affinity to football, and I have a handball, another colleague to someone else, and what it would look like to 52 if... each of us were trying to race to make these alliances materially helpful. I would understand that even if there was a certain request from the Football Federation of BiH if it had come to some financial difficulties in realisation, this time towards qualifications. I'd understand that, too. But this is about Parliament wanting to reward an alliance sportically for possibly some results. I will not be in debt, and I will say that I support the presentation of fellow Bahtić of Martin and that we turn this initiative over to the Ministry of Civil Affairs to provide us with information on how to allocate funds to sport alliances, on which criteria, how large they are, and then we can take some kind of, you know, policy here: whether it is okay or not. That's it, and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27007	Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27008	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27009	Husein Nanić, replica. Vinko, I'm sorry, I didn't see right away.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27010	I thank you, Chairman. I will say very briefly about Mr Križanović's exposure, to refer to the ministry as competent or, I don't know, to interpret this request. I think we've passed the laws and we need to treat them, we have, above all, the Budget Law of the Institution and the Budget Act. It clearly states how a grant of funding from sports, culture, etc. is awarded. – through public competition and the rest. And I think that in this case, with a request like this when it is said "to be in charge of the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Civil Affairs to make a decision or to conclude that 100 000 are paid to the Football Reserve and Grant Team", we do not know why, we do not know when, we do not know if there is a request, there is no, that it is truly unserious of Parliament to ask that this request be determined.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27011	Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27012	This way, I am sorry that my colleague Bahtić has no more right to a replica and should not be called after that way that he loves football so that's why.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27013	No microphone 53
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27014	I'm defending you, my colleague Bahtić, not to be called that way because he loves football that's why he suggested this. However, there should be criteria in all of this. I respect some of the results of the Football team of BiH, however, it should be observed here and said loudly that BiH's football team has failed to achieve any success, but it is on the way that it may succeed in the World Cup, and that would be a huge success. But if the football team of BiH is placed at the World Cup in South Africa, they'll get some money for it, some money. Because it's a rich sport, FIFA is going to reward every team that's placed with millions of amounts. And every next step they reach at the World Cup further, so the conclusion is that in the Republic of Croatia the football team is the best export product. So the most profitable company that makes the most millions of euros and has huge reserves, even so much that it will build its own camp. What I want to say here is to encourage top-notch sports and ask Mr. Minister to prepare one material, where he would suggest this home which is here willing to support top athletes, to make criteria. Criterions, not those that counterpart Križanović partly spoke about and already existed, are rightly replicated by counterpart Nanić, so there is the Ministry of Civil Affairs to do so, but to create criteria for the award of top athletes. I would say world championships again, European championships, gold medals, bronze medals, titles, etc., because it is not as easy to place in every sport at the world championship. So, for example. Some sports can go to any world championship, football players unfortunately have not yet won any titles at the European and World Cup. But they will therefore be rewarded by their international alliance, which is very rich. However, young athletes, I know a athlete who is third in the world to 18 years old, and only 15 years old, he doesn't even have a scholarship, there's nothing, no reward has been won except for his poor alliance that gave him some sort of symbolic reward. So, to make a criterion: when some athlete achieves some top score, he will be rewarded by the Council of Ministers with so much and so much, not from this fund for competitions to help these alliances, sports, etc. But also, if possible, Mr. Minister, to make myself so parallel to the ultimate result of awards and alliances and professional headquarters. Because the alliance can't produce top athletes if it doesn't have financial resources. Certainly young athletes should have scholarships, and top athletes for top scores should be adequately and financially rewarded. My colleaguesBahtić initiative is very, very good. But here we see that there is no mood to accept. But she's implicated so many conclusions and suggestions that are very good, and which, here, the minister, based on perhaps a stenogram, might need us here in some, is it written form to give me, which in one, I would say, in the next session, and accept. And colleagues of Bahtić should certainly not mind this initiative, and neither should he resent us for not accepting its initiative, because we are not against the Football team and it is unfortunate to put all of us here before the final act take or leave. Because in that part, colleague Križanović is right: which would be what would happen if each of us suggested that we finance this or that alliance with this or those amounts. Because I know about recent successes in individual games and handball players and basketball players, etc. I've got figs and thumbs for football players to succeed. But they haven't achieved any results yet, but here we all give them support to succeed. Thank you very much. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27015	Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27016	Well, actually, I almost have nothing new to say, since... the predecessors mostly said everything. I'll just brief... We should have criteria in which way and how to reward top athletes. And I don't think we should be a people of short memory. The two of us wins of the Football team of BiH would have taken to their feet and we would have jumped now, all of us, and we forget that the Football Federation of BiH has laid down crime, corruption and thieving for years. Finally in court, for years we've had protests of fans, years of walking around the city and all of a sudden, if we showed up with these 100,000 marks to encourage them, I'm afraid it wouldn't be misunderstood. So, I'm for criteria, I'm for encouraging and encouraging... high and good results, but in this case I don't think this decision should be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27017	Here, Mr. Nović has expressed his willingness to give us some information and to introduce us to the practice conducted at the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27018	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I didn't expect anything but that this occasion would, of course, be interested in sports as a whole in BiH and, whether we like it or not, sport is the best ambassador of each country, but we must look evenly at all sports alliances, both professional and amateur. If we don't have hope and help sports in development, we won't have, I'm sure, top athletes. However, since there have been some specific issues of honourable MPs here, I should just say that the Sport Act is intensively trying to implement and that in this spirit it is already in the final phase of the Rules on the financing of top athletes in BiH, as it is regulated by law. And, once that rule is passed, we will see in BiH how many top athletes truly are in BiH and what top athletes mean. Whether only it implies participation in world championships, Olympics, etc. Or more than that, like in every country in the world? So it will be very clear and very transparently determined: who are top athletes and, of course, according to the possibilities of this country we will go accordingly to the Council of Ministers to determine which financial resources we can give to top athletes. The second issue is the issue of the funds set out in the BiH Budget. That's what they're called. The grant should be borne in mind that it is 1,300,000 for this year for all sports organisations in BiH. These are very modest means but... already in the distribution of these funds have been better removed, and this is the final phase, which means that we have also proposed the Council of Ministers absolutely established all criteria for the allocation of these funds. The grant was published on the Ministry's website for more than a month, and in almost all the daily papers and all those who thought they met the conditions for these funds could and applied, and there were nearly a few hundred applicants applying for this modest amount of funds. I believe that the Commission 55, which is formed and which is working and which is in the final phase in the best possible way, will try to really share the even cookie we have. Of course, the most crucial thing is to share according to the criteria, and regardless of what is relatively small, it is when it is properly distributed that we will all be satisfied. I just, you ask one question, of course, it's up to you to make a decision that if you now have 1,300,000 of these funds, because the others are gone, it's going to raise 100,000, and then you're going to ask the question of the regularity of the tender that's been announced, given that you're going to have to go to that tender again, because it indicates exactly how much money is being shared in this grenade, and I think it might come into question, unless there's some new funding coming out of any budget reserves and so on. And what is important is to inform you that the Sports Council has been formed, in accordance with the Law on Sports, which numbers 17 members, which highlights athletes or sports workers, who are already meeting several times, and that the 'Strategy for the Development of Sports in BiH' is also in a more advanced way, not to say, the final stage. And what's the key? It is crucial that we seek to determine exactly what sports are, which is where BiH will advocate co-financing in the coming period. And when we do that with this strategy, then we'll have a lot easier, clearer and not only criteria, but also ways to move on. So, I expect that this strategy, since not only is foreseen for the Council of Ministers to consider but also for this Parliament, will be adopted by September at the latest, and then we will be able to plan additionally, i.e. budgets in line with what the state will have for next and next year. And, I just came back from a meeting where we talked about the possibility of BiH being the organizer of the World Junior Handball Championship, where it is very important to show the world that we are able to organise... one of the championships, and the handball in BiH must admit that it has both a tradition and that there are good halls and we have achieved, I would say, an almost unique agreement, both entities and the state ministry, as well as the Handball Alliance to give the guarantee to BiH that we will support this handball championship, and we will leave everything else at the moment aside, and we will discuss and negotiate in the next period how to implement this organization, how much money we will give. That's why I'm optimistic that we need to take it one step at a time. It is hard to expect to come out so quickly with proposals to say that BiH will allocate 5 million or more for sport. Of course, if you can do it, I'll all-out support it as a resolute minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27019	Thanks for the information. I'm closing the debate. It was enough, we had sports news.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27020	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27021	Around the passport to the athletes, the passport to the athletes, so it doesn't stay in the air. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27022	I'm just asking that it's good to always have the right information. Not a single passport application stands in my ministry. Not one, any official we issue, whether someone is complaining in BiH about not getting a passport. You know what our responsibilities are, and we are intensively working to get all BiH citizens passports and visa-free regimes, at least when it comes to our ministry, and I hope that we will hold the deadline that we gave here before you, which is that all technical conditions for the issue of biometric passports are on July 1st and that the test phase of the issue of biometric passports begins on July 1st, and very fast and complete issue of biometric passports. Of course, there are other conditions, but it's for information.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27023	Thank you. Here, I hope that... this is how we can conclude the debate on point 21, about Parliamentarian Sadik Bahtić's initiative. We only have two more points on the agenda. I suggest we finish this, and then we take a little break, take a vote, so this time we're very effective. So point 22. Ad. 22. Appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to bring the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions You know, it's about different adopted texts at home. We need to appoint three men. At the extended college, i.e. at the College, we proposed Lazar Prodanović, Sadik Bahtić and Velimir Jukić, people from the Finance Commission. So when we get to the vote, they're candidates. Is there anyone else who might have suggested it? If not, I'll conclude the debate on item 22. We're going to the final point. That's point 23. Ad. 23. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement on credit between BiH, represented by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, and Raiffeisen Zentralbank Osterreich Actiengesellschaft – Development of the water supply system in the municipality of Livno, b) International Health Regulations (2005) 57
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27028	I'm giving up the other amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27029	Mr. Živković is giving up on the other amendments. I thank him for saving time. So now we move on to a statement on the bill. Please prepare to make a statement on the bill. Vote now! 27 votes "yes" (22 Federation, five RS). The law received the necessary general and entity support and was adopted in a second reading. We're going to point 8. Proposal for an Excise Act (second reading). We have here a proposal for a conclusion that we should declare before the vote. Mr Lijanović suggests "The discussion and statement on the proposal for an excise law is delayed until an opinion has been given from a session of the Management Board on amendments to the Excise Law Proposal." 60 Please prepare to make a statement on this proposal for a conclusion. Vote now! Four votes "yes", 27 votes "against". The proposal for a conclusion did not receive general support. We're moving on to an amendment statement. So, in turn, Šemsudin Mehmedović has one amendment. Please prepare for the vote. We declare the amandman of Šemsudin Mehmedović. Prepare to vote. Vote now! Five votes "yes", 20 votes "against". The amendment did not receive the general majority and was not accepted. We have, Jerko Ivanković, also, one amendment. You're not giving up, are you? So we declare the amandman of Jerka Ivanković. Prepare to vote. Vote now! Four votes "yes", 23 votes "against". He did not get the general majority, no amendment was adopted by Jerka Ivanković. And we have two more amendments to Momčilo Novaković. Let's go in turn, about amandman I. Momčilo Novaković. Vote now! Ten votes "yes", 20 votes "against". I. Momčilo Novaković's amendment didn't get the general majority, it didn't go through. Please prepare for the declaration of amandman II.. gospodin Novaković. Vote now! 11 votes "yes", 21 "no". Neither has this amendment been given to the general majority and has not been adopted. We are now pleading on the proposal of the Excise Law, in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 28 votes "for" (19 Federation, nine RS). I agree that we passed the Excise Law proposal in the second reading. And here we have a proposal for a conclusion of Selim Beslagic, which reads 'About each of the next amendments and additions to the Law on Excises in BiH, the Directorate for Direct Taxation is obliged to submit an analysis of the positive effects of these changes.' Please prepare to vote. Vote now! So we're voting on the proposal for a conclusion by Selim Beslagic. 36 votes "yes" (24 Federation, 12 RS). 61 I conclude that selo Bešlagić's proposal for a conclusion was given both by the general and entity majority and adopted. We're going to point 9. Proposal for a Law on Postings of BiH (second reading). We have amendments. Šemsudin Mehmedović, four amendments and Milorad Živković, three amendments. We're going in line for the amendments. So, gospodin Mehmedović's amandman I.. Vote now! 10 votes "yes", 17 votes "against". I. Šemsudin Mehmedović's amendment was not supported. Let's move on. We vote on amandman II.. šemsudin Mehmedović. Vote now! Nine votes "for", 17 "against". Also, amandman II.. He didn't get the general majority, he wasn't adopted. We're going to Amendment III. šemsudin Mehmedović. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 10 votes "yes", 20 votes "against". Also, amandman III.. He didn't get the general majority and he wasn't adopted. And we still have amandman iv.e. šemsudin Mehmedović. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 10 votes "yes", 19 "against". And amandman iv.e. šemsudin Mehmedovića was not given the general majority and was not adopted. We're going to Mr. Živković's amendment. We have three amendments. We declare amandman I.. glasati now! 13 votes "for", 16 "against". The amendment I. Milorad Živković did not receive the general majority and was not adopted. We're going to Amendment II. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 14 votes “for, ” 16“ against. ” And amandman II.. He didn't get the general majority and he wasn't adopted. And we have a statement on amandman III.. Milorad Živković. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 13 votes "for", 16 "against". And this amendment didn't get the general majority and was not adopted. 62 And now let's make a statement about the bill's proposal, in the second reading. Please prepare yourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27030	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27031	I don't have it here. Niko delivered it to me. I don't have anything in writing, believe me, the Law of Post Office. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27032	Well, I don't know if I have the right to intervene at this stage, but in the conversation at the club before the vote, we received information that you will ask that this be returned to the Commission, which, for these or those reasons in the meantime, did not discuss these issues after the last delay. In view of the fact that, once again, three operators, all three state public operators have made observations, given the fact that both entities have made observations, we believe that there are elements to put it once more. If you don't, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27033	I understand what you're talking about, Mr. Dokić, but postponing, I don't know, doesn't create a business opportunity for us to get into the content that went through the commission phase and where we didn't have a countermand to fix it. Now, just some special circumstances, I don't know how. Bye-Bajazit, I don't mind, no one cares if this goes down here. Here, I'm because, now I'm going to suggest how. Here, let's postpone, but in the meantime we need to figure out a way. Here, let's make sure we're ready to postpone the plea. Please prepare for the vote on the postponement of the Post Code vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 27 votes "for" (18 Federation, nine RS) we postponed the statement on the Law on Postes and we tasked the Commission to find a way to intervene together with the College and check whether... operators and these entity ministries etc. They're really right when it comes to amandman iv.e. to Article 7. The postal code. So let's move on to point 10. Proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts (second reading). Here we have amendments Mr. Živković wants to defend at the plenary stage. So we have four amendments. Please prepare to vote. Vote now on gospodin Živković's amandman I.. 12 votes "yes", 20 "against". 63 I. find that Mr. Živković's amandman has not been adopted. We're going to Amendment II. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 12 votes "yes", 18 "against". I find it's not amandman II.. gospodin Živković was not adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman III.. gospodin Živković. Vote now! 12 votes "yes", 19 "against". Also, I find that neither is amandman III.. Mr. Živković was not adopted. And we also have a statement on amandman iv.e. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 13 votes "for", 16 "against". I also find that this amendment has not received the general majority and has not been adopted. We are left to make clear now about this law, in the second reading, in the text adopted by the Commission. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 26 votes "yes" (Federation 24, two RS). We don't have entity support. We'll get along later. We're going to point 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (second reading). We have here eight amendments to Mr. Džaferović. Please prepare to make a statement on gospodin Džaferović's amandman I.. Vote now! 20 votes "for" (18 Federation, two RS). There's no consent. We vote in the second round on gospodin Džaferović's amandman I.. Vote now! We have 11 votes “against. ” Mr. Džaferović's amendment was not adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27034	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27035	He quits, Mr. Džaferović gives up on the other amendments. 64 We move to a statement on the proposal for a law, so in the text set out by the Commission. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 32 votes "yes" (23 Federation, nine RS), I would like to conclude that we have adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection. Let's go to point 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the BiH Border Police (Second Reading). And here we have two amendments to Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27036	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-27-0.u27037	I understand, it's the whole system of harmonisation with the law. Okay. So, I find that Mr. Džaferović has given up on both of his amendments. And now we move on to a statement on this law, in the text set out by the Commission. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 32 votes "yes" (23 Federation, nine RS). I agree that we adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the BiH Border Police, in a second reading. Let's go to point 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Defence Act (first reading). So, we're pleading on the bill's proposal, in the first reading. Vote now! We're pleading on this law. Vote now! 26 votes "yes" (22 Federation, four RS). We don't have an entity majority. There's no consent. Here we go to the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now! I agree that 10 MPs voted "against" and that we did not adopt the Amendments and Supplements Act. Let's go to point 14. Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination (first reading). I have tried to animate you to plead both in the first and second readings, but one number of MPs and clubs is not ready. They are looking for an amendment phase, etc., although the fact is that it was unanimously adopted by the Council of Ministers, although the fact is that one of the conditions is etc., I will not insist. That's what people want. So we vote in the first reading. I'm not suggesting anything, but I'm warning you, and I know what's going to happen to those amendments, etc., but it doesn't matter. 65 Please prepare to vote. We're voting on the bill's proposal, in the first reading. Vote now! 32 votes "yes" (20 Federation, 12 RS). I find that we adopted the Proposed Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination in our first reading. Let's move on, 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Competition Act (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal, in the first reading. Vote now! 34 votes "yes" (21 Federation, 13 RS). I find that we've adopted... Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Competition Act, in first reading. We're going to point 16. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 36 votes "yes" (23 Federation, 13 RS). I agree that we adopted the draft law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration in the first reading. So let's go to point 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH – Proposers: MEPs Ekrem Ajanović, Remzija Kadrić and Adem Huskić (first reading). However, here we also have a proposal for one conclusion. The outcome of the vote on him depends on whether we will declare the law today. So, "It is a delay to make a statement on the bill's proposal until the Council of Ministers' opinion on this law is obtained." So, we are voting on Mr Kalabić's proposal to postpone his statement on this law. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 31 votes "yes" (19 Federation, 12 RS). We have made, we have adopted a conclusion on the postponement of the bill proposal until the Council of Ministers' opinion on this law is obtained. Let's go to point 18. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2008. There's been a delay in the debate. There's no vote. 66 Let's go to point 19. Information from the BiH Ministry of Security on the state of security of journalists in BiH (realisation of the conclusion adopted at the 47th House session, held on 4 March 2009). It's also delayed, because of the record I'm saying this, there's no voting. Point 20. Proposal for a resolution on improving the protection of the family – Proposer: MP Adem Huskić. We're voting on the motion for a resolution. Vote now! 34 votes "yes" (24 Federation, 10 RS). I agree that we have adopted a resolution on improving the protection of the family, Proposer Adem Huskić. We're going to point 21. A statement on Parliamentarian Sadik Bahtić's initiative of the 50th House session, held on 1 April 2009, "to task the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Civil Affairs to make a decision or conclusion that BiH's football team from the reserve fund and the grant for sport is paid 100,000 KM". We've discussed this a lot. Please prepare for a statement on the Initiative. Vote now! 17 votes "for", 15 "against". No entity support. There's no consent. We're going to the second round of voting. Vote now! 11 votes "against", i.e. there is no general majority. So Sadik Bahtić's initiative was not adopted. Let's go to point 22. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to agree on the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions. Lazar Prodanović, Sadik Bahtić and Velimir Jukić were proposed. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 29 votes "yes" (20 Federation, nine RS). I agree that we appointed Lazar Prodanović, Sadik Bahtić and Velimir Jukić to this Joint Committee for Harmonization. So we're left with point 23. Giving consent to ratification: a) Agreement on credit between BiH, represented by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, and Raiffeisen Zentralbank Osterreich Actiengesellschaft – Development of the Water Supply System in the Municipality of Livno and b) International Health Regulations (2005). Do you agree to make a statement about both of these in the package? 67 Prepare to vote. Vote now! 37 votes "yes" (24 Federation, 13 RS). I agree that we have agreed to ratify these two agreements, i.e. the Loan Agreement and the International Health Regulations. Just one moment to announce: the next session is June 10th. Thank you for your cooperation. I'll see you. The seat is closed at 14.15.
