ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26413	Please take your seats to work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, the media, I am opening the 53rd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. At this point, 32 MPs are present, which is enough to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I believe another number of MPs will join us in the meantime. The absence was justified by MPs Jovan Todorović, Zlatko Lagumdžija, Rifat Dolić and Sefer Halilović, and Sead Jamakosmanović announced he would be late. As we practice in previous issues, I will inform you about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions. Let me remind you, you know that we've appointed three of our members to this joint committee to see if there's a need for alignment, whether or not we've met the assumptions for harmonising the exact text. However, in the meantime we have received a report, I hope you have had the opportunity to see this, where the Joint Commission, on 11 May, informed us that there is no subject of reconciliation, so there is no need for reconciliation. Therefore, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions was adopted in the same text and will be made public in order to enter into force, so in the text adopted here at our House of Representatives. In the context of previous issues, as indicated in the call for this session today's session, we should make clear on MP Adem Huskić's initiatives for inclusion in today's session's agenda, to remind you, the next item of the agenda - a proposal for a conclusion on the mandate of BiH's legislative and executive authorities to make their own action plans for implementing recommendations from the committee of the Council for Peace Implementation of 26. 3. In 2009, and - Making a decision to declare January 27th on the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims and July 11th on the Day of Remembrance of Srebrenica Victims. Materials for these proposed points you've got. So, I suggest we get right to it. 2 Please, let's go dot by dot, to prepare for the vote. So, we are voting on a proposal for a point to require legislative and executive authorities to make their own action plans, etc., as I said. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 20 votes "for" (19 Federation, one RS). There's not enough entity majority. We don't have the consent. We will plead immediately and in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Against including this point at today's session, we have 11 MPs from the RS, which means that the proposal for this agenda has not received the necessary support. We are going to make a statement on the draft item 2 of the agenda proposed by MP Adem Huskić. So 'Making a decision to declare January 27th on the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims and July 11th on the Day of Remembrance of Srebrenica Victims'. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! And here we don't have a third of the entity needed. We don't have the consent. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Eleven MPs from the RS have declared against the proposal to include this item of the agenda, which means that the proposal for this agenda has not received the necessary entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26414	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26415	I don't mind. Here you go, Mr. Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26416	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26417	What about the listing? You'll get it, you'll get it, of course. It's a practice for us to list whoever he's looking for. Now let's go to the opening notes about the draft agenda you got here on the benches. I hope you have that. And, now a little explanation, as the new 3rd point, we have added: - Proposed legislation on the excise duties of BiH, in the second reading. I would like to remind you that this proposal for a law has been considered by a brief procedure and that we have received the Report and the relevant 3 committees in good time. Of course, we also have an explanation regarding the mandatory procedure under the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. The new 17th point is included: - Report of the Joint Commission on Efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services. You also got that report. The 15th item of the agenda you received earlier was removed, not now this one on the bench but earlier, so the proposal for a resolution on the protection of the family, Proposer Adem Huskić, for the reason that the committee in charge adopted the conclusion that the motion for a resolution should be completed, in collaboration with our... The legislative sector and the competent ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Human Rights and the Ministry of Civil Affairs, in order to obtain this updated and possibly more quality text. This is about the very points of the agenda, and this morning we received a letter from the BiH Prosecutor's Office asking us to postpone the report on the work of the Prosecutor's Office, which we put on the agenda, for the reason that the chief prosecutor was prevented from attending. I think that should be appreciated, that without the prosecution's presence, it would not be correct to discuss the D.A.'s work report. So that's where I hope we can immediately agree to take this point off the agenda, if there's no different opinion. We simply don't even have a business assumption that we have a promoter, etc. So now something about the presence, one more thing, so this agenda item related to the Information Ministry of Security on the Security of Journalists of BiH; we last concluded, got no material, to put it on the agenda. Unfortunately, I must conclude, Mr Sadović, that we have not received this material until today's session. I apologize for speaking to you like this, but we really didn't get the material, and the agenda point is on the agenda. Here, that's about the agenda itself. Mr Vrankić has sent an apology that he will not be able to attend the excise point and on the point of the proposal for measures to overcome the economic crisis, etc. and has writtenly appointed and authorized Mr. Šakota, his assistant, to attend this session today. Here, that's what I had, a little bit longer, like some introductory notes, clarifications and explanations. Now I'm opening a debate on the agenda proposal. Here you go. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26418	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we are very busy in the Bosnian Herzegovina public these days with the issue of visa liberalisation. Yesterday we had a chance to hear a speech from a high representative here in Parliament. I was talking about it at one of the last sessions of Parliament. 4 The laws to be adopted by this Parliament concerning the Roadmap for visa liberalisation are laws passed by the Council of Ministers and which fell here in Parliament. There's not a lot of controversial things. If there is a political will among all, and I believe that all of us want BiH citizens to have a liberalised visa regime, I propose that today's session be placed in the agenda, and it may be a working conclusion on this, because I think that nothing is disputed... however you will, it says: 'It is the Council of Ministers that until the next session of the House of Representatives', let's see if it is 15 days or needs 30 days, 'in the parliamentary procedure delivers all the laws concerning visa liberalisation, unanimously at the Council of Ministers', and then Parliament here, without any debate, adopts them and thus fulfil the requirements of the Map of Way and join BiH with a group of countries that, starting from the beginning of the following year, should enter the... liberalised visa regime.' Here, I'm going to write this down now, so I'm going to deliver it to you, and I'm asking you to vote on it, or the agenda point, and we can immediately adopt it as a conclusion without any discussion, I don't think anything should be controversial about it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26419	Here, I'll give you one piece of information, maybe she'll sort of satisfy and be in line with what you're talking about. Yesterday, the College of the House of Representatives reached one conclusion that it was urgent to address the same request to the Council of Ministers during the day, with us ready to schedule a session before 27, because 27 is quite late when it comes to some timing, etc. We'll have a joint college with the House of Nations today to include the House of Peoples in this initiative and so the College of the House of Representatives in that direction is doing exactly what you're talking about, by doing an analysis of what's with what law. Some have fallen, they can fall again, one is in the process, one is waiting for the House of Peoples. .... We have those committees, etc., so today at a joint session with the People's House, we will try to make a deal together. Of course, I will try to get in touch with the chairman of the Council of Ministers today, etc. But in any case, it would also be important to support this House of Representatives on this agenda. But here, I don't insist, Mr. Džaferović. You choose to deliver to me what you suggest if you consider it necessary after this information. Here you go, Mr. Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26420	I thank you, Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, I just wanted to intervene on what Mr. Džaferović said. In the last session, when we discussed the visa liberalisation document, I proposed a clearly worded conclusion, (should we come to the High Representative and say that we should do it or do some things?) and that conclusion was rejected. Unfortunately, rejected, and this shows our relationship to the problems we are talking about both our responsibility and our respect for ourselves as institutions. 5 I have proposed this conclusion in three steps: it means that a thematic session is held, that within 30 days the Council of Ministers be delivered, and that only laws concerning visa liberalisation are discussed at the session. Unfortunately, we are not like Parliament... answered in this situation, at the moment when we should, and when we are called to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26421	Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26422	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, here I am, reporting for the simple reason not to deny that exactly, Mr. Nanić, what you said. Mr Belkić informed you that the College has taken the activities it has undertaken and I just need to inform you that this is not about the address of the High Representative, just so that there is no, here, false interpretation. So your proposal for a conclusion was standing and he was really, really good for me. I wish we had adopted him, I wish we had all these laws on the agenda today. But I don't think visa liberalisation is a subject and these laws that are our common obligation, to which any of us should individually profit, so we can profit all together. The aim of the College was to try to secure an ambience in which we will all profit together and our citizens together with us to ensure what is our obligation both with a high representative and without a high representative. To be honest, there was one letter of reminder that we received from, I think you also received this letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and based on a letter from the European Commission in BiH, in which there is a tax on what is expected when it comes to the Parliamentary Assembly on the adoption of the legislative legislation that is necessary. And the College's position was to remove everything that stood up to this house, and it seems to me, here are six laws, if I've counted well, and the establishment of police committees and bodies, aware that within the law, and which were in the procedure and which fell, there are not many topics of compliance. So, you're aware that there's a possibility of doing it quickly. And, I just want to remind you here, so I don't think this proposal of Mr. Džaferović's conclusion will in any way interfere with this initiative, so to speak, with the College's proposal, I think it can strengthen it. I think we should express our common intention to work on it and further commit the Council of Ministers. It would be good, but now someone will say that it is short, that the Council of Ministers, having already made laws, makes an effort in the next day or two to agree on disputed details and that by the end of this week, I am stressing by the end of this week, informing us that they can deliver these laws, that we can schedule a special session and that indeed in one, I would say, we do our part of the obligations in this part of the ministry. Well, in that sense, here I call on us to support this proposal by Mr. Džaferović, but indeed, it is not a subject on which any of us would particularly like to profit. And, I must say, the College has been completely unanimous and unanimous about this request to the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26423	Nice to Kalabić you. Is it a replica, drago?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26424	Mr. Chairman, here is the truth that Mr. Lozančić has taken part of my discussion, but since there have been a lot of unargued accusations in the past days, and it is now going in some direction, why we are willing to support the conclusion of the Kolegijum and why we are prepared, especially if we agree, to support Mr. Džaferović's conclusion, but we remain in a position when we voted last time, it means that these are not the two things proposed by our colleague Džaferović and what Mr. Nanić suggested. Since we are ready to banalise things in BiH so that now that citizens think about those three or four laws, they think that in each third sentence the word visas, travels or liberalisation is mentioned. You just have to tell people there's no mention of it. That the issue of weapons in all countries is a very serious matter and in 99% of countries has nothing to do with visas, because they ended it, they solved it. And the people told us, "Just finish it and you'll get it." And this is a much more serious subject. So, the legal stuff about a lot of things, and by the way, we're going to solve a very important thing that I really support and we need to solve. And we were against the the thematic session because a lot of things can be solved in collaboration with the Council of Ministers, in the ministry itself and in the commission itself, where we mean, and without the thematic session, we could and can end a lot of things. You have a law that depends on one, let me banalize the matter, the half-alignment that can be passed and we have the law. The request from Brussels is to pass the laws. That someone doesn't think it's prescribed what members will look like and we have to adopt them like that. They're just asking us to adopt those laws and we need to adopt them. But these things we need to tell people that they are more important and that they are treating a very important area that is regulated in all countries of the world and should be regulated, and at this point it is only related to visa liberalisation. And as soon as we're done with it, it's got nothing to do with it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26425	Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26426	Thank you, Chairman. I think the chairman of the Expansive College said yesterday that the College of the House had already done so and I think it is unnecessary to have any discussion about it. Perhaps it would be best if Parliament would give its consent that since the College has already done so, without the need for any conclusion now here to open a debate on this. We simply from the SNSD's position that the laws that were here in the procedure had serious objections and if they come the same such laws I am not optimistic that they will be adopted. We were told by Europe that we should make laws, but she didn't tell us how these laws should look. And I ask the Council of Ministers to cooperate with the entity parliaments and all those who need to say their consent regarding these laws and find the possibility of coordination and compromise, and each will bear their share of responsibility when it is explained and who is guilty and who is not guilty, and who is responsible for the adoption of these laws or not adopted. 7 Just to remind you that we have different practices here in Parliament and some like to call for one practice when, in the Council of Ministers, ministers gave consent to some law. But here we have today's draft law on the framework of foreign policy in BiH. That law, so no one gave consent to that law. All ministers... from the RS are overvoted and this law has no constitutional basis, and here today is on our agenda. But we're going to discuss this law and we're going to tell the reasons why we're not for this law, etc., etc. I want to say a few words on another subject and the way we work in this House. The mandatory items of the agenda are the points that came with the commission's report, such as the mandatory agenda item on the D.A.'s report. We couldn't get a point off the Rules of Procedure at all which is mandatory from the agenda as it is now being discussed here. We can say that it stays in the agenda, and then, because there is no proposing, let's postpone the debate on that agenda point for the next session. That's what we can do. As we can do, I would call on the one empowered by the finance minister, the assistant to tell us what the problem we have in relation to the Bill on Excises of BiH, not to take it off the agenda, to start the debate or to postpone it, because (as you have seen, we have received, probably all MPs), three laws concerning this law on the distribution of incomes by the High Representative, so we need to adopt that law and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the system of non-indirect taxation in BiH. These laws are related to the Excise Act. We can't just pass the Excise Act if we don't change those three laws. I call on the assistant, I call on him to explain this matter here and see how we will get out of this problem that is obviously not the issue of this Parliamentary Assembly, but it is a common problem for BiH and we need to find a way to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26427	Here, my colleague Živković has opened a series of topics. So, we could discuss this all day. I suggest we go back... I'll respect the Rules of Procedure, be safe, and I'll call the assistant when I have to, when I consider it necessary to call him. So let's take it in a row. Are there any other amendments and additions to the agenda and the debate on the agenda? There isn't. I have an official proposal here, Mr. Džaferović, do you remain at this conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26428	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26429	How am I supposed to provide and how do I know that Parliament has supported it? 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26430	... An extended college to make Parliament completely behind it, to make it stronger. I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26431	So, the College of the House of Representatives at yesterday's session reached a conclusion, a sort of conclusion, to refer to the Council of Ministers' request that it be urgent, not within 15 days, that, as soon as possible, the proposals of the laws which, when it comes to procedures, are free from the obligation to continue the procedure, to deliver them in a harmonised manner, so at the level of the Council of Ministers agreed, with a request to be considered by an emergency procedure and that we will immediately convene the meeting. Here it is, do you support this attitude and this kind of action of the College?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26432	Is it an emergency or a shortened procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26433	Emergency procedure, emergency procedure. Please prepare to vote. So this is about supporting Parliament's College of the House of Representatives on this plan.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26434	Consistent.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26435	Consistent. Well, I said consistent, but I don't need to get all kinds of consent, only if the Council of Ministers has agreed. Okay. With 24 votes "yes" (16 Federation, eight RS), I find that the House of Representatives supported the activities of the House of Representatives in an attempt to meet a number of visa liberalisation conditions. So, this puts an end to the need for a statement on the conclusion proposed by Mr Džaferović. When it comes to the D.A.'s work report, Mr. Živković is right. So, the agenda point is mandatory and we won't plead. When we get to it, then we'll discuss and decide, conduct various transactions, so to speak, delay the plea, debates, etc. Okay, so we're left with what's been proposed for today's session, so 9 1. Approval of the minutes of the 52nd session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New Parliament issues; 3. Proposal for an Excise Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 4. Proposal for a law on the framework of foreign policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 5. Proposal for a law on the use of sign language – MEPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić (first reading); 6. Proposal for a decision to join the amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposed Members of the SDA Club; 7. Report on the implementation of the laws of the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 8. A report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 9. Report on BiH's Attorney General's work for the period from 1. 1. 2008 to 31. 12. 2008; 10. Interim report by the Commission of Investigation on the establishment of the spending of donor funds; 11. Proposed measures of the BiH Council of Ministers' competence to mitigate the impact of the global economic crisis on Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy; 12. A strategy to prevent and combat domestic violence for the period 2009 to 2011; 13. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a revised strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement Annex VII. Dayton Peace Agreement; 14. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2008; 15. Information from the BiH Ministry of Security on the state of security of journalists in Bosnia and Herzegovina (realisation of the conclusions adopted at the 47th session of the House, held on 4. 3. 2009; 16. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes on an effort to reach an agreement in the identical text of the Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services; 17. A statement on Momčilo Novaković's initiative on the point "Examination of positions and measures to improve the situation of BiH citizens who were employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia and fired from work from 1991 to 1995" 18. Giving consent to ratification (a) the agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Albania on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying, (b) the First Amendment to the Credit Agreement signed between BiH on 25 July 2005, represented by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH, and the Kingdom of Spain, represented by the Credit Institute Office – The financing of the water supply system in the Municipality of Olovo, (c) the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of BiH and the Ministry of Interior and the Public Administration of Montenegro on the implementation of joint patrols along the common state border. So those who led the process of negotiations also call the government of Albania the Council of Ministers of Albania. Okay. 10 So that's the agenda and I think now we can start to realize. Let's go to the comments first. The answers were received by Adem Huskić, Velimir Jukić, Denis Bećirović, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Rifat Dolić, Remzija Kadrić, Šefik Džaferović, Lazar Prodanović Svezmanovic, Željko Kuzmanović, Azra Alajbegović, Rifat Dolić and those I did not possibly read and received. I'm opening up the possibility of commentary responses received. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26437	The esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed representatives of the media and guests, namely, at the 24th session of the House of Representatives, Parliament unanimously accepted the initiative proposed by the SDP Club, which was related to the need, i.e. the conclusion was that the Council of Ministers delivered within three months to the House of Representatives, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH a strategy, a new strategy for fighting corruption and organised crime in BiH. I remind you, Parliament adopted this initiative on 13 February 2008 and we should have on the table in May 2008 a strategy that will be discussed in Parliament, especially because BiH falls on a scale that measures the level of corruption, especially in Southeast Europe. However, instead, I received an answer to the parliamentary question, and therefore I stood up, which said that the Council of Ministers only made a decision on the establishment of a 'Inter-resor working group for the creation of the Strategy' on 26 March 2009. So, I want to express my complete dissatisfaction with the fact that the BiH Council of Ministers was due to deliver a strategy in May last year, and here we finally get an answer that literally says that only in March, so at the end of March, they formed a working group that will deal with the development of the strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26438	I'm sorry... Remzija Kadrić, just to give the information. Meanwhile, as you have seen, I hope, you have received information on the state of security of journalists in BiH, which the resolution minister prepared and informed me that this was also adopted at the Council of Ministers, but unfortunately we did not get it. I apologize to the minister, in whose, in some ways, address I have sent some kind of criticism for not getting the material. Here, the material is here and hopefully you'll get to this point of the agenda and some of it you can read. So, Remzija Kadrić, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26439	I thank you, Chairman. So I received an answer to one of my parliamentary questions, although there were even more of these questions and I expect answers. So the Council of Ministers provided me with an answer to the question, "What is the state of functioning of the Plant Health Protection Authority?" I received one quite incomplete answer, and... in that answer it says that when it comes to the national structure in this administration, it stands, among other things, that four Srbin, three Hrvat and one from the 11 others were employed there. So, in this administration, when it comes to civil servants, there are no represented Bošnjak. Based on the labour contract, there are a lot of irregularities, etc., however, it is expected from the Ministry of Foreign Trade in these memos that they have launched some activities to improve this situation in this administration and is expected to settle this situation in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26440	Lazar Prodanović, comment also.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26441	Dear Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and guests, I have received a reply concerning the number of newly admitted civil servants through the State Service Agency's competition and I thank you for it. However, I would like to conclude that it was stated here that a total of 559 newly admitted civil servants were admitted in the last year, 72 of which worked previously in the post. This number does not cover trainees, and I would like to request an additional answer to this question. So, to inform me in this number... how much of this number are the trainees who have been to those jobs. Namely, the public in BiH, often young people who compete through competitions called through the National Service Agency... disappointed to raise their documents, knowing after the completion of the competitions, unfortunately, that the largest number of those who are admitted to those jobs was previously found in status or trainees or workers for a certain time. I think the State Service Agency must pay special attention to this and give equal access to the competition, as well as to the quality of all those BiH citizens who compete and meet the conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26442	Šemsudin Mehmedović, also a comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26443	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I asked the BiH Attorney General's Office at the 47th session of this house: "When and how will BiH's defenders include resolving BiH's property?" Unfortunately, this answer, here, after two months I received, or just over two months could have been written the same day because this is an example of how I should not answer parliamentary questions. They were probably counting on us not to read the answers to the questions asked, so they answered that. Namely, the BiH Ombudsman's response is that the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers appointed BiH's lawyer as a working group for the creation of 'State Property Law'. If all the BiH Advocates' activity is in being appointed to the task force, then I really don't see the need at all for the Attorney General to exist with this kind of work. On the other hand, the answer already prejudges the solution to the state property issue, as it says here 'and the distribution of state assets'. I don't know what right it is, if we don't have Law 12 defined that state property will be shared in the first place, how the right of the Attorney General to even mention the notion of distribution of state property. Today, we have a report on the work of the Ombudsman on the agenda and there will certainly be a discussion on this topic and on the state within this BiH institution, because this is what I think is better if we don't have it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26444	Velimir Jukić, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26445	Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked the 25th parliamentary question. Two, so almost three months ago. I received the answer and thanked Mr Sven Alkalaj, BiH Foreign Minister, and the Council of Ministers for the response that I would say is correctly drawn up and complete. However, what was actually written in response shows that the question was justified, and the question was: "What is the BiH Foreign Minister, Mr Sven Alkalaj, doing, in accordance with the BiH Constitution, to balance the national structure of employees and managers in this ministry, including the DKP network?" So, the situation is such that it's well planned, but with completeness it's not. In particular, the alarming state of fill of the management staff is where we generally have an unfulfilled significant one, especially when it comes to the staff of the Croatian people, where the fill-up in the leading places is 50% to 75%, rarely beyond that. I think Mr. Minister and the Council of Ministers should take this account and fix this as soon as possible, and especially what is directly responsible for the minister, I think the minister himself should do. So in the cabinet of the nine-man minister, there are no Hrvat. I don't think that's to be praised, and I don't think that's how it should be done and that in all ministries, and especially in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has a special specificity and weight because it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it should really be a real representation in every sense and a reflection of the national structure and the population in BiH. I would not specify the details, except it is evident that the mostly unfulfilled manual can, I will repeat, from the order of the Croatian people and I call on the minister to carry out these fillers in the coming period to achieve the balance. And, what's positive, the overall imbalance is not great, but the structure of that imbalance is questionable because they are mostly unfulfilled management places. And, I call on the minister to make a real extra effort and to... these completes carry out as soon as possible and reach a balance as provided for by the Organisation and by other laws and regulations in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26446	I hope I've well established that there are no more comments on the answers to the questions received. We are now crossing and opening the process of asking new questions. Šefik Džaferović. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26447	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will ask one question to the BiH State Service Agency, which reads: 'What is the way in which the score and evaluation of the candidate for director of the Directorate for European Integration of BiH has been carried out, with a request for Parliament to be supplied with complete material regarding the case?' We are witnessing this morning's signs in the media from which it could be concluded that there is a very ugly and illegal, illegal practice in BiH, which is that although... the laws have been imposed that members of the commission should be given their grades exclusively on the basis of the criteria of expertise and ability, so candidate reference, in some ways, doubted that the vote could have reached so-called. ethnic voting and voting, while the criteria of the candidate's ability and expertise have been ignored. In BiH institutions as a multiethnic country, of course, we should all participate, have ratios, have proportions, parities etc., but in the work of such established institutions only the Constitution and the laws of this country must be present and nothing more. It's gonna be a sad thing if it turns out to be true and very dangerous for this country to, for example. The Bošnjak, a member of a body, votes for the worst qualified or least reference candidate of Bošnjak, while ignoring a more reference candidate who comes from the order of the Serb and Croatian people. And vice versa, a Srbin, a Hrvat, etc. These people should point out their grades in line with the professional, in line with candidates' references and candidates' abilities, regardless of ethnicity, and that is something that we have to stop in BiH if this is shown as a practice. I am in favour of the commission members, when they come, among other things, and by the ethnic key in these commissions or institutions, doing their job professionally and on the basis of professional criteria assessing candidates, because in this country we know where there must be an ethnic criterion and we take care of it, and what goes to the competition must be in line with the criteria of professionalism. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26448	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26449	Dear Chairman, distinguished guests of NGOs, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I received one letter and it was addressed to 40 addresses and came to you from people who are suspected, accused and convicted, who are at the meeting at KPZ Tower. To say that I had these prisoners at their request and visited and they had no objections to treatment, but in this memo they sought and asked the Ministry of Justice: 'Is this the only country in the world that retroactively applies Criminal Law?' And they stated above, which is very indicative, that they have no objections to what they are suspected, which will prove their innocence in court, rather than the application of the law, so they say they are aware that all individually committed war crimes and criminals in the armed conflict in the period '92-'95. For years, they must process and sanction, that they are ready to make a personal contribution to do so fairly and legally, that they are committed to going through with it for the sake of justice, 14 truths, tolerance and peace in the BiH area, and that they are determined to do so in a fair and legal and civilizational way the whole process. They are seeking, since one series of laws was imposed in 2003, among other things, that they state that they are, I say, retroactively, that they are required by those laws that came into force in 2003, and not those that were valid... when they allegedly committed those crimes of war crimes, and they, I repeat, seek; therefore I ask the Ministry of Justice to answer whether this is the only country and whether it is possible to harmonise legislation and return to the system of application of the law, because it is now charming, and that in the Court of BiH is tried under these new laws of 2003, and in the cantonal some prosecutions it is tried by the laws that were in force at that time of the events of these events. So, they're even expecting us to settle this as soon as possible, so if that doesn't happen, they've come to the point that they're ready for a hunger strike, a boycott of the court, some other measures. I, therefore, do not enter into the measure of things, just ask the Ministry of Justice and this topic has been and I have repeatedly asked it: 'Will the Ministry of Justice explain the Court of Justice too, so if the Constitutional Court is to, is it possible to apply the laws that came into force in 2003 to... that time that was in '92–'95. A year, or for those people who are yet to be charged, or suspects, or the trial process is under way, will these laws apply? So will this country once explain it to someone, because they have also turned to Strasbourg." I think this is a simple solution, that the Justice Department must answer these questions and ask me as soon as possible, because the processes of many are ongoing, in writing the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26450	Please watch your time. Here, I'm Mr. Slavka. I have you for a minute. Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, I want to ask one question that has actually been repeated, which I repeat, because I have not received an answer so far. In fact, at the beginning of February of this year, I asked the BiH Prosecutor's Office a question, and until today I have not received an answer. It has been more than three months and I therefore consider it appropriate and I want to repeat this question, although I am sorry that today we will not be able to discuss their information on the Work Report and will not be present as a chief prosecutor, because I would certainly also have in the discussion of this material certain questions for him and given the trends that are happening in the BiH Court of Justice, it is evident and clear in the public that these two judicial institutions are very up-to-date and very fast when it comes to the prosecution of Srbin in BiH, and the BiH Court of Justice when it comes to condemning Srbin in BiH. So I was 15 wondering why they didn't find it appropriate to answer one parliamentary question, because I, too, was from the RS, not believing that they were too busy that he didn't have three months to take this question and answer it. So my question is: 'What stage is the criminal record against Atif Dudaković, which was filed in September 2006 along with evidence of the war crimes committed? I'm not interested in the answer that criminal charges have been received and that it's being handled because me and the public already know that. I am interested in whether the evidence that was delivered has been analysed, whether the suspect's hearing has been conducted and whether the hearing of the victims who were the subject of this war crime has been initiated?" I hope the BiH Prosecutor's Office will find it appropriate to answer this question of mine and hope I get an objective answer. If that doesn't happen this time, I just want to say I won't give up on this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26452	Mr. Genjac. If this is a mistake, I have here, okay. Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26453	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, the international community, NGOs, means of information, dear guests, here, I will ask one parliamentary question, before that a little and short explanation. The case of Branimir Glavaš, which took place in the Republic of Croatia and BiH, has been shaken by the public these days. So, the criminal Glavaš, who, in Croatia, was sentenced to 10 years in prison for crimes against the Serb population in Slavonia, instead of going to prison, thanks to the strange failures of Croatian institutions and BiH, left Croatia peacefully, or came to BiH. To make the scandal even bigger, he is welcomed with attention in certain parts of BiH. Since BiH, along with other peoples, has lived the Serbian people since before the war, as well as one who, during the war in Croatia, was expelled from Croatia and also from Slavonia itself, and that many of their people, i.e., and that some reactions have been expected over many of their narrow and wide relatives, as well as neighbors and acquaintances, by the criminals Glavaš and his followers. That is why I ask the BiH Council of Ministers the question: 'How is it possible for BiH to grant BiH citizenship at the time when the investigative and judicial proceedings were opened that most of the local and foreign communities knew about? Who gave him permission and when did he approve of BiH citizenship? Does the granting of citizenship have any kind of injury, formal, legal, security or harm to practice?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26454	Remzija Kadrić. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26455	Thank you. I will ask only one question to the Ministry of Civil Affairs at the Council of Ministers, which reads: 'What are the reasons why the Ministry of Administration and the local self-government of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not, as it stands, hand over 465 cases of the file of persons to whom BiH citizenship was assigned by naturalisation, as stated in the report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens of BiH, for a period of 1. 1. 2008 to 16. 2. In 2009, and what about those items?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26456	Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26457	Dear colleagues, respected chairman, esteemed guests, respected ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, taking into account the overall situation and position of BiH, both in the political and economic terms and strategy that our Council of Ministers, the Presidency, and we all take up and represent, means the country at all levels, especially given that in the Council of Ministers we have three constituent peoples, we have ministers and the complexity of the state in each segment, and I had a vision that we will take care of all segments, performances, and this primarily refers to the deployment of troops in Georgia. I think it's one big mistake of our country, especially that Russia is in the Council of Europe, which we have traditional connections, which we know that Russia didn't turn off the gas of BiH when it was meant to be, etc. And that every country should be our friend, that we as little people shouldn't participate, and we know for ourselves how insulting it was when it was hard for you, so someone comes and tells you soldiers, and it hurts, and it's certainly being considered in all the narrow circles, and I especially think there's a big mistake that's been made. I ask the Council of Ministers: "Who has and when has made a decision on the deployment and participation of BiH soldiers in the military exercise in Georgia?"
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26458	Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26459	I have three short questions. First question: 'How much legislation has been rejected in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly since BiH's signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, so in June 2008, until today, 13 May 2009. the year?' That's the first question. Second question: 'What laws were rejected in the pre-mentioned period? 17 I ask that the names of the law, the number of the sittings, and the dates when these laws are rejected. Third question: 'What MPs voted against or abstained from these laws? I ask that the names and names of these MPs be given to me precisely, as well as the information that political parties belong to." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26460	This looks a little like some kind of investigation, but good. Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26461	Dear Mr. Chairman, my question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers, by asking that, since it is a problem,... delivering answers to the competent governments of entities and cantons. Namely, I place it on behalf of the Parliamentary Group for Population and Development, which reads: 'What activities are being taken by the Council of Ministers, Governments of Entity and Canton to ensure the achievement of internationally accepted development goals, including the Action Programme of the International Conference on Population and Development and Millennium Development Goals, especially when it comes to family planning, reproductive health and meeting the needs of young people? And did governments plan and allocate appropriate funds in the budget and in what amount to achieve these objectives?" This response, in addition to the general importance, is needed for the presentation at the International Parliamentary Conference on the implementation of the Action Plan on Population and Development in Cairo, October of this year, at which a global parliamentary call for action ICPD+15 will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26462	And I have another reported Velimir Jukić. Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26463	These days, we have witnessed that newspapers have also written, meaning press, and some radio stations have talked about this, about importing frozen meat over 10 years old into BiH. In EU Member States, the maximum time or age of that meat may be one year or up to two years. So it's only ten times more than the standard in EU countries, or five times that. 18 I ask the Council of Ministers: 'Are all applicable regulations and procedures respected when importing... frozen meat to BiH? Is the applicable legislation governing this problem in BiH in line with rules and standards that apply to the EU and regulate food security issues?" I've been asking a little questions these days and talking to some people who are procedures and ways of obtaining a license, or a solution to meat imports. Therefore, the BiH Veterinary Office plays an important role in the chain, so the issue concerns both him and his work. The same question concerns whether our legislation is sufficiently quality, complete, comprehensive and to what extent it is in line with EU regulations and standards. Now let me just say two sentences about the damage this has to do. In addition to being harmful to the health of our people, our citizens, there are even greater damage or equally great damage to domestic production. It's known that the price of this kind (now, what is it, I don't know), so let the meat be here somewhere around 2 km, with all the costs up to 2.5 km. And now, if we compare our meat producer in BiH who has a hundred problems, from having weak incentives and understanding by the state in the broadest sense, then of all levels of government, it is impossible for him to be competitive and that he can produce at all any economic cost any meat at that price. And that's how we choke every thought and idea to support and develop domestic primary meat production. I think the Council of Ministers on this issue should be very, very seriously approached, analysed and seen what are the consequences of human health, the quality of our diet, the products that are made... of this material or meat, and which have negative effects for, at least the beginning, some production and the existence of conditions for meat production in BiH. So I think that this is still unsustainable and that this is very, very harmful for BiH, and some stories about some, I don't know, with incentives, when by means of systematic measures we destroy domestic production, I don't think they make any sense. We are actually bringing ourselves into an absurd situation: what is not acceptable and edible anywhere, we import it very cheaply and here we poison our people, our people, so later we need to treat them, of course, and so on, and our manufacturer will never be motivated, there is no one to sell the manufactured goods to. So, meat, if this is from imports, and we see what quality – almost inedible, at least in a large number of countries. Here's just one quote from some people, so experts from this area, who say, "Although EU rules don't regulate the duration of frozen meat,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26464	Mr. Jukić, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26465	on the basis of the available knowledge from the literature of the sustainability period
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26466	Do you hear me, Mr. Jukić? Time! 19
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26467	the deep frozen beef at – 30°C is up to two years. The meat after this period loses all the necessary nutritional characteristics of the meat."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26468	I'm really asking, so MP questions, etc. According to the Rules of Procedure: you all write a letter, a question, a surrender, a brief explanation, etc. There's no need. Because obviously, you see, there's no interest, we're on the verge of a constant quorum and a little television statement, a little coffee, etc. It really doesn't make sense. We're always at the limit of the quorum. I ask you to be patient and participate in the work because that's why you're all paid as much as I am. Let's go to point 3. Ad. 3. Proposal for an Excise Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) So, Mr. Živković has already told some history here about this law, but here I will remind you that it is the law in the second reading. You have the Commission's report, the opinion of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, a positive report, a positive opinion has also been provided. So you saw from the Commission report that the Commission accepted one amendment, and in the plenary phase, one amendment to the Šemsudin Mehmedović dam and Jerko Ivanković. And also, Mr. Novaković has submitted two amendments in accordance with Article 118(3)(a). Therefore, these amendments, which are defended here and which have been submitted on the basis of new aspects, have not delivered an opinion from the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board which is under way. Therefore, requests for an opinion were submitted. I held this morning's interview with the finance minister on the circumstances related to the link between this law, the amendment and the addition of this law to the Law on the indirect taxation system and the Single Account Act, where the funds collected under this basis are poured in, and Mr. Vrankić assured me that the Council of Ministers has established amendments and complemented these two laws and obtained agreement and a positive opinion from the Management Board on indirect taxation but, unfortunately, they were only here this morning, or at the very beginning of the session. And we did not, to put it that way, dare ask you to discuss them under article 127, because at least 50% of the MPs would say we did not read them, etc. It's a proposal of what Mr. Živković was talking about. And on the other hand, we have a situation that if we were to adopt this law in the second reading, so it goes naturally to the House of Peoples, it's not definitely adopted, it takes a month and a half to get the Administration to pass sublegal implementing acts so that it can take effect, which says that at the next session we can solve this issue of harmonisation of those three laws, when it comes to harmonisation, so to speak. 20 Behold, therefore, I have had so much for opening remarks and clarifications. I'm opening a debate on this law and amendments that I said we didn't have an opinion from the board of directors. I have Sadik Bahtić reported. Here you go, President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26470	Thank you. I'll do it for a while. You have already said that, of course, the Commission has adopted the meaning of this Excise Law proposal, with the amendment of counterpart Jukić who agreed on the 10-fing toll issue. And we had two more amendments and later colleagues from Novaković. You explained that it went to Banja Luka on the Management Committee for Opinion. I'll just say a few sentences. So, the Commission's position and my position is to adopt this law, and we accept all your arguments, so we accept that, and I think that's quite okay. But all I'm saying is that these three amendments that have gone that they have their own justification have an excuse because they're being further taxed by the rich, which is not exactly the case in this proposal. In one way, domestic production is protected and income increases considerably. I'll just say a few sentences. This law means we need, it's welcome, it's as it is, the effects are positive, they bring us an additional 290 million revenue, 180 million on excises and toll 120 and it's very important that it goes to a special... account within the Single Account and it's strictly intended: to build a highway 120 million in these times of crisis, recession. And it means we need this law. But I also think, like my colleagues who have tabled amendments, that this law has not quite covered it, you've heard it on the Commission, the luxury and the rich, and that's probably what my colleagues are going to say. There are no cigarettes, tobacco, believe me, Ronhil remains in Croatia 5 KM, we have 2.5 KM. So this law half, about... half the mark per box means it brings income. The domestic, yes, has not been done or perhaps a quality analysis of the total sales, retail prices in ours, and there is the most involved... the Sarajevo Drina. So, it goes in favor, goes in favor of these... expensive cigarettes, imported. When it comes to toll, however, it must also be taken into account in the surrounding countries. This is a matter of excise duties, it was heard, it is a regional issue, it should take prices from Serbia-Montenegro, Croatia because of the grey economy and smuggling, because BiH has no quality mechanisms to prevent smuggling. The question of toll, it was also heard, the remark is mine, the remark that 10 fenings that it was a blow to all citizens, and... 120 fact-finding on the poor. According to me, you could find some modus, we know that... However, our distributors are making huge margins now, so we have these gas stations every few miles and now our prices are lower than in the surrounding countries. I said, I'm not against the rich, there's no rich country without the rich individuals if these individuals pay their debts to the state, but most of us don't pay them and have their strong lobbys and participate in these laws, and we need to make it public. Here, and counterpart Mehmedović suggested one justifiable, in my opinion, request. Coliga Jukić is likely to say, this law should find itself, and there is no way to introduce excise duties on luxury cars, to determine the category of what a luxury car is, over 1,800 cubic metres, over 2,000 cubic metres. And in BiH, believe me, here's colleague 21 Jukić said, there may be hundreds of boats, boats, yachts registered in BiH, no one pays for the fening. And couldn't it have been put into this bill of excise duties to bring in one part of the income. For it is a fact: let him who has money use it and pay. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26471	Momčilo Novaković. Business intervention Mr. Zorić. I didn't see you reported here. Here you go. All right, I've seen it, you're welcome, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26472	Like this, I, esteeming my colleague Bahtić, didn't understand him. And please give us... College, I'm not going to talk about the sekretarijat right now to make sure we hear about it. So, these microphones, I can't force a colleague of Bahtić to remove paper from the microphone, he puts paper and I don't hear anything, only when he looks at the Council of Ministers then I hear excise or something and then I don't hear any more. No, seriously, this isn't the first time. Jozo sits in front of me, I can't hear him when he's discussing. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26475	Only yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26476	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26477	Is that a rerun, Mr. Bahtić?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26478	It's not a rerun, probably. 22 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26479	The only thing, Mr. Zorić, is that I get a moving microphone so I can go from one to the next. Here you go, Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26480	There's a lot of stuff that means, and when you hear it, you can't say it's heard. There are probably certain lobbys, in my opinion, the main point was and on the Commission there were and I say that the price of Ronhill remains 5 KM in Croatia, we have 2.5 KM. Also, I said boats, there are no yachts, boats, yachts, boats, there are over a hundred registered in BiH, and no one pays for the fening. So, we need to adopt this law in part, but the wider leprosy of luxury is not covered consciously and certain lobbies have had an impact on it and it needs to be covered. Let those rich still have it, but let them pay. In that context, I also think about this toll that it didn't go to... distributors, but it went to all the usual, people to pay 10 fening, and those who make extra profits will still have extra profits and build gas and motels, and the state pays very little, it is. kolega Zorić, have we heard from you?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26481	It's not you. It's the tech.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26482	What about in tech? Thank you, thank you, good.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26483	Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26484	I must say, for the first time, when we held a debate on this law, I had observations as to how this law came into practice and how it moves in this process, from the moment it comes to Parliament to this day. In fact, a reduced procedure under this law cannot be seen as a shortened procedure under another law, only from one fact, which is that consent to both this law and amendments must be given to the Administration for indirect taxation. Shortening the procedure, I was saying then, makes it impossible for MPs to participate equally with the Council of Ministers in the creation of this law, that is to say, in the adoption of this law. In fact, here we see today that we have amendments to two colleagues on whom the Administration has neither given consent nor refused. Today, if it weren't for that problem you were talking about, we would have passed that law in a second reading without the administration having come forward at all about the amendments of their colleagues who came in time. Taking the fact that my amendment didn't come in time, I'll explain why, why it didn't come in time. Before that, just to say, that we would even be having a debate about this law, the indirect tax administration had to give consent. That's right, if it's good, it's not good, we've realized a million times and it is and it's not good. The fact is that this house 23 passed the law in its first reading without having the consent of the Directorate for indirect taxation. That the Direct Taxation Authority gave its consent on 7 May... allowing this law to be the subject of debate at this house and on 8 May, the Commission sat down and discussed the amendments. The MPs had an amendment for eight days. We had a session on the 29th. The shortened procedure is seven days, the 30th is, of course, the next day of the session, followed by a state holiday on May 1st, so weekend, and I claim that there was no way that the Administration for indirect taxation in this timing will achieve any contact, not only with parlament, I am talking about amendments, but also with the Council of Ministers. And of course she didn't do it. Why did I ask that today these two amendments, which I have proposed, be held under Article 118(3)? I just haven't found another way to get up here today and talk about this, and I think what I'm saying makes sense. I like the idea, and I support the idea that we're not voting on this bill today, so I figured out Mr. Živković, but let's do it on the next one.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26485	His motives are different in nature.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26486	I don't know what nature motives are. I heard what Mr. Živković was talking about, and he said that two other laws have not, that they are connected, that they need to be put together, that they should be seen as a whole, and that way, eh, I'm saying that I support, so that, that way of thinking. I believe that we would also allow the Administration to declare these amendments, and I would ask the House and the Commission that this amendment, which I have proposed, also, of the instructions of the Administration. Of course, I, it's not disputed that I know how the administration will react, but I think it would be correct, given what I was just talking about, this briefness of time and everything that was found in that time, in those seven days, how business-based the short procedure is foreseen. That is why I propose that today we hold no debate on this amendment that I have proposed, nor on the amendments of my colleagues who have repeated, nor on this report, but to postpone all of this for the next session. So, all of this to be postponed for the next session, and once again today, we insist on the Directorate for indirect taxation, as the House, we insist that we make a statement on all the amendments that are related to this law were found in the procedure. That would, I mean, avoid unnecessary misunderstandings about this law, use that term. I have to say, I've heard a lot of rougher expressions from some council of ministers, and some lobbies, and about Ronhil, and I don't know what it's all about. When it comes to these laws, I don't want to talk about them. So, I'm just saying that this way we'd do away with the shortcomings that seem to be evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26487	There's a little problem. This home has pleaded for a brief procedure, that's one thing. Another thing, Mr. Novaković, you've discussed and now you've invited these other six to give up the discussion. I don't see anyone giving up. 24 Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26488	Mr. Chairman, I am not a spokesman for Mr. Živković on behalf of the SNSD Club, I will say. It would not be correct to talk here and on your side about motives and to extract subjective thinking about what motives are.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26489	No, motives are the harmonisation of the law, and Mr.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26490	You don't have to explain that to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26491	... Novaković is talking about obtaining an opinion from the Administration.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26492	I know what Mr. Novaković is saying, and so do you. So it's not about motives, not about this or that, it's about how we get to the law. ... I will support Mr. Bahtić's discussion first and, of course, Mr. Novaković. They had, however, been fortunate that Mr. Novaković proposed these two amendments, but this shows the whole absurdity of how the laws are passed, as it is possible to invest the amendments. In my first reading, I strongly attacked this law because it was superficial and had just explained about this unfortunate Ronhil and those activities that wouldn't contribute much, so he argued that luxury goods were taxed, and everything else, fully aware. That's why I didn't even submit the amendments because in the interview, I'm going to say to the private manager, and I'm getting assurances that my amendments, whatever they are, I can't get the support of the Directorate for indirect taxation. What can this parliament do then? That's when I stood up and I'm gonna stand up and now and I'm not gonna support this law in whatever reading it is, whatever form it is, whatever procedure it's in, because it's covering cigarettes minimally. That's when I asked for the maximum, and on these very imports. That's when I asked that the excises increase to alcohol, which is now missing in the new proposal, I asked for luxury goods, so I even mentioned, to remind you, and cosmetics and gold watches and I don't even know what it takes. And nothing's been done. This is just a new scam. And that's when I said one term that's known to everyone: force on the villa by increasing the excise on fuel. It's okay, it's okay. But what's gonna happen? The distributors will increase the margins, make extra profits, and we'll get 120-170 million in the sub-account. Like, we're going to say, we've accomplished something, made up for the losses because now customs are zero. On one side, on the bridge, as I say, lost, on the keg they get, and then a chain reaction comes in to raise prices for other basic life supplies. And what did we get? Again, we have received the wrath and misery of the people to turn to Parliament, and we are the only ones to blame. That's why there's no point in investing any amendments that are known to be unsupportable in the beginning. And what Mr. Novaković was saying, we adopted it in our first reading without the consent of the indirect taxation board. Well, then, there is really a question of what this 25 parliament can do and how, especially if there is no coordination with the Council of Ministers in preparing this law and about all these goods. It's really impossible for three items to be. And what Mr. Zorić was saying about this technique. Well, I'm very famous, I speak loudly, I speak loudly, and since I'm at the beginning, here's three minutes and 20 seconds and it's not 12 hours yet, so we haven't arrived yet, so I'm also waking up these sleeping ones, but I can't wake up those sleeping ones who are preparing these laws. Why are they really putting us in an awkward position and putting on coffee, putting on alcohol, putting on oil and oil products, and there aren't any of these boats, and there's not a lot of cars on our roads that are worth 200-300 thousand marks, and there's no luxury of any goods. So then I said, I have to remind you, it's better to ruin 10 to 100 cafes than 10 cities to starve. And you're going to say now: it's not the procedure of this law. I won't support him in any reading, in any procedure, 127, 6, 340, five thousand times to come, because he didn't cover all taxes and excises. Lazo, don't laugh because it's rude. If you don't agree, leave the session. It's better without a quorum to be than to be distracted, because that's not how I do it. So, what's the problem here? Here's the problem that surfaced this law, superficially. Why he did not include countless products of luxury goods to be taxed excisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26493	Look what it's all about. Mr. Živković has a business intervention, but you see what this is all about. Mr. Novaković invited you to give up the discussion, to postpone the statement and debate on this item of the agenda until we get an opinion on the amendments and until we officially put this on, what Mr. Živković was talking about, amending and supplementing the Single Account Act and the indirect taxation system. And as for the relationship between the Governing Board of Administration, etc., no one forbids us to amend and supplement the Law on the indirect taxation system and to vote and then go to the Constitutional Court with the Administration to see if this is a legislative body or not. So there's no need to keep saying that. But here it is, Mr. Živković, a business intervention. I'm sure he's heading this way to stop the debate, if these applicants agree. You're on, that's great. _________(?) We're undeclared. Me, you undeclared, very handsome.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26495	Thank you. Mr. Chairman mostly told him what I told him I was going to say here. And last time we discussed it in our first reading, Mr. Mehmedović very strongly attacked the principles of this law. I said I would not continue to participate in the debate until the Council of Ministers heard a clear and loud response about such an act. We today do not have 26 capacities in the Council of Ministers, neither of the chairman nor of the finance minister, to tell us clearly and loudly that there is nothing here that MPs should tomorrow justify themselves to anyone for what they are doing. So there's no capacity for this debate to be discussed today in the second reading, even though I suggested last time that we postpone to do so. On the other hand, which is why the director of the Directorate for indirect taxation cannot come here to Parliament and say three words. What's that? State of the country? Who can't call him here in front of parlament to say why he won't give an opinion on any MP's amendments? Did this man come to this parliament at any time and say three words about important things, and excises in the state are important things. It concerns every citizen in person. And I ask... that it be delayed at first as it is proposed, that the next time also be called by the Director of the Direct Taxation Directorate to say three words about it and to answer the MPs' direct questions concerning this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26496	Here, the effects are that two more have applied for the discussion. But in the meantime, two others signed up. So, I ask Mr. Suljkanović, Jašarević, Jukić, Križanović, Okolić, Raguž: Do they give up the discussion with a trail of these initiatives, stop the debate and continue at the next session and decide? Even so, a number of people are gone, they signed up, but they're out. So you're not giving up, are you? There's no problem, go ahead, and we'll do it one more time. Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. So we'll discuss it next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26497	Mr. Chairman, my replica refers to Mr. Živković's exposure. Namely, if it takes a reason to refuse the law, then it shouldn't be my strict discussion at last session when discussing the principles of this law. I've turned my disagreement with principles into an amendment that I think would fix that thing. I am sorry that there is no opinion of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, that is, the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority, which is responsible, and not the Director of the Direct Taxation Directorate, as Mr. Živković said, and that is why I have volunteered to fix this thing. So, it's not the director of the Board, it's not the board of directors, it's the Management Board, and if someone should interpret it here, then it should be the chairman of the Board of Directors of Direct Taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26498	Replica, Momčilo Novaković. Is it a mistake, Momo?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26499	No, it's not a mistake. I mean, it's not right for fellow Mehmedović to discuss it like this. Namely, I, for example, am not talking about Živković, I'm talking about myself, but 27 I found myself in that story, asking to postpone the debate – does not mean that I will reject this law. I'm looking for ways to support this law, but I think the way it is is the problem. And secondly, they have procedural problems. I'm not interested in your amendments at all. You can vote, if no amendment passes by that law, you are not the reason why I'm asking for a delay, and especially I haven't talked about refusing or accepting the law. Those are someone else's; so I didn't hear Mr. Živković say he would refuse the law, but he asked to postpone, and I supported it when I discussed it. I still don't think there's any premise for this today. And I'm asking, of course, I suggested the conclusion, it would be a good idea, what the chairman suggested, to first make a statement about this conclusion that implies a delay in the debate. That's the conclusion I suggested. If, of course, we plead against it, then it's logical to have a debate. I support the chairman in the effort...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26500	We've got Lazar Prodanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26501	Chairman, a business remark. I find that there is absolutely no respect for Article 118 here. Rules of Procedure. So this is an amendment phase, we're not discussing principles and we're wasting too much time. This debate can be guided, except for new aspects and possible replicas of it, by those who have proposed amendments. We're wasting too much time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26502	Of course, it's not the first time. But I'm trying to give everyone my word and not interrupt people. Here, replica, Milorad Živković. No Niko's even mentioned their amendments yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26503	I just don't know if my performance challenges with certain MPs are a certain delay in what I wanted to say here. And when I want to defend both the position of MPs and Parliament, it is obviously interpreted differently. I defended the position of MPs, you directly and all, in the sense that someone came from the Council of Ministers and responded to those serious claims of yours. We did not then, nor today, get anyone from the Council of Ministers to answer that. I've asked to protect this Parliament and every MP. I don't see what I said about not supporting it, or I'm going to give reasons to refuse this law. And, on the other hand, I just called to tell Mr. Novaković, don't go, the law's statement is delayed, it's delayed, the debate is interrupted. Because if we're going to postpone the plea, then today we're going to discuss it all again, and then we're just going to vote on the amendment, one or the other. Let's discuss this law properly, quality at the next session, and we'll end the debate now. 28 _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] It doesn't say here. Here, read it. A statement on the Excise Act is postponed. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26506	Okay, with this annex, you see which position I'm in right now. So, everyone's suggesting we stop the debate, etc. But if they argue. A number of people have been reported, so they remained, Mehmed Suljkanović remained, Bajazit Jašarević, Velimir Jukić and Jozo Križanović. I am now getting the text of the conclusion which reads: 'The debate and the statement on the Proposition of the Excise Law in BiH is being postponed until the next session. In the meantime, the Finance Commission and the Budget will direct the Directorate for indirect taxation all the amendments made to make a statement on them." We've already done it, directed it, etc. So, I have that conclusion now and I'm asking these four men who are... _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Of course, then there isn't. There's no delay in the debate. We're continuing the debate. Mr. Mehmed Suljkanović. No, we're going to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26508	Please, I'll drop the debate, but I have a proposition. If we're really honest, then we could end the debate. I think we're going in that direction, with a proposal to amend and supplement this law, which would take away the powers currently conferred on the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. And I think we can do that in one way, maybe, now we can start that initiative. I started that initiative, I made a proposal, but it was rejected, but it's an opportunity for us to test it out. We've made countless objections here to the privileged position of the Board of Directors of indirect taxation, here's the chance that now with one initiative, we can do it expressly. It's not a problem, it's two members. Thank you. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26509	Of course, of course, everyone has the right to propose an initiative and conclusion. So, it's all open and we'll make a statement except for the interruption of the debate. Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26510	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I will begin by proposing the conclusion: 'The proposal for a law on excise duties and amendments until the opinion of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board is postponed, and at the latest until the next session of the House of Representatives.' So we're going to support and if the debate is delayed, this isn't a debate, this is just a debate about whether this procedure fits this home. I assure you, do not return that the Finance and Budget Committee is seeking the opinion of the Management Board for indirect taxation. That commission is not a partner to anyone in this world. If the House does not ask the Management Board to give its consent, or its opinion, the Management Board will not do so. So I think, Mr. President, that we should discuss today what we think is necessary to build into this law which is a good law if there are no amendments, but it would be better with amendments and which of these amendments this House thinks should offer the Directorate for indirect taxation and that they say: we have established one text, but we agree that this is also worth the attention. Or that we are not only denied but also answered why they don't accept the improvement of the text, even if it gets most of it in this home. If we just come down to asking for an opinion and get an answer, no, then breaking up at the next session won't have any effect. We won't agree with the board of directors, they don't agree with us, and I think we'll get back in position that we can't improve it. I feel the need to say that the existing law will bring improvement to the excise sector in BiH. The amendments proposed would improve this law but, from my point of view, I'm not sure that's what the Management Board of indirect taxation will think. If we ask today that they give their opinion and that opinion of what they accept, I am convinced that it will be enough for us to pass the law at the next session. And there's the point. So it would be good to say today some of our own judgments as the House on the proposed amendments. So I think they're good, and I think we should have a board of directors' position on this point of direct taxation. And I have to say one thing that can only be related to the Management Board of indirect taxation. The Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board will not give an opinion on tax policy laws when the home has a higher degree of responsibility than tax policy in BiH. Unfortunately, this kind of work doesn't suit us, but it is still a mechanism to preserve tax liability in this country, because there is no other way. There are examples here, I just wouldn't bring them out if I didn't challenge the replicas, when sometimes, past our responsibilities, we get to the number of votes up here, when we show that we're not responsible enough for our overall commitment. 30 So it will not be easy to change the law, if we think to preserve, that we are responsible, when it comes to changing rates and the laws as they are today on the agenda. I ask, therefore, to be clear about whether we are asking for an opinion for all amendments or for just some of these amendments, and when we get that at the next session, it would be a law adoption technique. And I think this circumstance Mr. Živković was talking about...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26511	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26512	...to help this, to need other laws in the package, to help this situation. As the Council of Ministers prepares the laws, the Management Board will surely deliver an opinion on our request, and they have been able to deliver very broad opinions and I think that we will then adopt all three laws at the next House session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26513	As far as the Management Board's relationship to our demands is concerned, you are a witness that I intervened this morning and we will continue to do as we did. Velimir Jukić. No Niko's allowed amendments to be discussed, I've never heard a word of them before.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26514	Here, as far as I can tell from the debates so far, the majority is that the debate is interrupted and delayed for the next session. I agree with that, too. However, I also think that we should bear in mind one fact, which is that these current amendments and additions of laws have an effect of approximately one million income marks a day. So that's what we're taking care of and not delaying this procedure indefinitely, because we're really losing. And I also dare to estimate that there are enough majority here to accept at least these changes. Of course, there was a very interesting and lively debate on the need for even more comprehensive amendments and amendments to this law, where the mention of boats, expensive cars and other goods that are not covered, but let it be a topic for other amendments and amendments to the law, that is, our right and obligation, and now I think it would be best to act as most of them and suggest: therefore, here, in a way, we do not end this debate, and to finish at the next session, that is, to discuss and adopt this law as it is, because it seems to me that any extension with new amendments will significantly reduce the chance of getting a bar and these changes that are certainly useful, especially when we have a reduction of income in the Single Account. With this, at least one part will reduce that reduction. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26515	Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26516	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's actually about the amendments today, so the second reading, and from that point of view, I wouldn't have the right to talk. But using this climate or atmosphere that a lot of colleagues have talked about that it was quite a short deadline for this debate and for the investment of amendments, I have actually come to support this proposal, which speaks of delaying the statement on this law today and allowing the conclusion of counterpart Novaković to make it possible to invest more amendments in the next five days, in order to include these proposals that have already been heard here today. Namely, what it's about. Even in our first reading when we talked in the last session, it was an observation that it would be good for this law to take full account of this issue, that this could not be one separate law outside the tax policy package, which should be led by the Council of Ministers. You see, we have, we should also be discussing today a proposal for a VAT law because we adopted it in the first reading at the previous session, and it's also... by a shortened procedure. Furthermore, there is a lot of suggestions here that should be taxed... i.e., luxury goods, then, I say again, VAT etc. It's one package that should be decided in a way, binding and uniquely. Here, for these reasons, I would support the proposal to postpone the plea, with, if possible, setting a further deadline for the amendment to be submitted within the next five days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26517	I've still got Martin Raguž on file. I hope this is what we're done with. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26518	I thank you, Mr. President. I only signed up to say what I said behind the microphone, unaccounted for, and apologize for that way of communication, but I haven't changed my mind. I think it is as far as this law should go today, that the budgets feel why this law is even proposed by those who are obliged to take account of it, but here we obviously do not all understand the same, so that if most colleagues and even those who have submitted the amendments ask for a statement from the relevant institutions and I think we should support it and allow us to get to those opinions as soon as possible. I hope it'll be by the next session. Here, I won't go any further, I'll support this conclusion. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26519	Thank you, Mr. Raguž, you helped me, you really helped me. So, like this, I have here a proposal for Mr. Novaković's conclusion. Mr. Novaković, do you mind if we say: further discussion is being postponed (so, because we have already held up part of the debate), so further debate is being postponed and a statement on the Proposed Act on Excises in BiH is being held until the next session. Meanwhile, the Finance and Budget Commission will direct the Board to indirect... Mr. Jašarević, if we don't change the conclusion, it doesn't make sense, because we're going to intervene, the College will intervene, I've already intervened, but it's a procedure for indirect taxation of the amendments that have been made, to this day, of course, at a more specific point. So, please let us be clear about the proposal for this conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 23 "for" (14 Federation, nine RS). There's a general and entity majority. Therefore, further discussion and a statement on the Excise Law proposal should be postponed until the next session, as far as the next session is concerned, while obtaining the necessary opinions on the new amendments. So I'm concluding this part of the debate on point 3. Let's go to point 4. Ad. 4. Proposal for a foreign policy framework law in BiH (first reading) On 17 April, the Council of Ministers submitted the draft law to the procedure. It's a regular procedure. The Finance and Budget Committee delivered its opinion on 8 May. The principles of the proposed law have been adopted. On 11 May, the Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion and established that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. So it's about the debate in the first reading. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Željko Kuzmanović. Here you go, Mr. Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26521	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, members of the Council of Ministers, guests from NGOs, I must make several objections to the promoter, in this case to the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH. Number 1 of the bill's preamble does not specify a specific material basis, or a member of the Constitution under which BiH could have jurisdiction to pass foreign exchange laws. The BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury is not under the Law on Ministrys and other management bodies in charge of the foreign exchange area, and there is no right and obligation to regulate this area. Unless you are familiar with this, editing the area of banking 33 businesses, i.e. Control and supervision is exclusively in the entity area, and this law directly... interferes in the area of control and supervision of banking operations. Furthermore, although the name of the law decidently states that it is a framework for foreign exchange, it is essentially a law that regulates the matter of foreign exchange business, which is supported by the fact that the proposal for this framework law has almost fully taken over the matter of the Law on foreign exchange, which I will return to later, because there is a draft law on the framework of foreign policy in BiH and what kind of law is this. This framework law detaileds the area of foreign exchange operations whose arrangement is not the Constitution of BiH or other act of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia given in the jurisdiction of the BiH authorities and institutions. Furthermore, and this is the biggest grudge, the proposed law regulates ongoing and capital transactions in foreign affairs. The details include property and bond relations, and economic relations with the abroad of natural and legal persons from the RS, which is also the constitutional jurisdiction of the RS alone. The draft law on the framework of foreign policy in BiH here outlines the reasons for the adoption of the law. In the RS, a new Foreign Exchange Act was adopted in 2003, which has been fully adapted to the EU's Capital Business Classification Directive and has been well liberalised, while the BiH Foreign Exchange Business Act, which has been adopted and in force since 1998, does not contain capital transactions and is primarily oriented to current payments abroad. So this isn't working at all, and I think the missing essence is. Therefore, the views of RS lawmakers are that the area of foreign exchange must be regulated, but only through the harmonisation of entity laws. I don't know since the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been in charge of passing a new law in the Federation of BiH, because this one alone... says here that this old law does not contain capital transactions, so it is not well-organised enough. It is our position, and also here it is noted that it is only possible to regulate this area through the harmonisation of entity laws and as stated in the Report on the Progress and Implementation of Measures from the Middle-term Development Strategy of BiH for the period 2004 to 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26522	Replica, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26523	This is not only BiH's jurisdiction and not only is it not the entity's jurisdiction – this will not be BiH's jurisdiction much longer either. This will be the authority of the EU – Brisel for a little while. Therefore, my friend, if we want to go to Europe, then this framework for Europe is so important, so important that it will no longer be asked about entity jurisdiction, but it will not be Bosnia and Herzegovina's competencies and be prepared for it. That's it, thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26524	I don't know if you listened to a high representative yesterday who asked us about these jurisdictions not to argue. But here, replica, may I have your attention, replica Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26525	I am glad that my colleague Džaferović is this familiar with foreign exchange business, but I must warn that here through the framework law on foreign exchange business is a significantly expanded topic, so this is in the jurisdiction of banking and RS. So it's purely regulated by the Banking Agency. It has also been proposed under the provisions of this law that certain powers have been given which have not been established by the Central Bank Act of BiH. The established provisions propose and regulate the competences and work of the RS authorities whose arrangement and security is in the exclusive constitutional jurisdiction of the RS, not the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So, through this framework on foreign exchange business, it has tried, as many times so far, to counter much. So this time in a slightly more perfident way than usual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26526	Let's move on. Replica, Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26527	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I would recommend that my colleagues first question the full name of this ministry, headed by the minister of the same policy option that a colleague belongs to, that is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations with the abroad. Secondly, there are drastic differences between foreign exchange and foreign policy. You are talking about foreign exchange business, and the full name is the draft law on the framework of foreign policy in BiH. So this is the foreign policy law. Thirdly, when you talk about competencies, then you should know that foreign policy is an integral part and very complementary with monetary policy in BiH, or not only in BiH, but in every country, including us. Thirdly, it is highly related to the balance of payments, exchange rate problems in normal economies, etc. and including our payment problems. Nothing in this law has entered, as you say, undermining the authority of entities in this area, but, moreover, ask yourself whether entities have so far entered the powers of the state under the BiH Constitution. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26528	Keep going. Živković, replica. No Niko's listening, Inzko asked us yesterday not to discuss these responsibilities, for nothing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26529	I don't think there's any need for a high representative to be mentioned at any moment. He said what he had, and the people of BiH will continue to live and when he leaves, praise Bog. The story of foreign exchange policy at a professional level for us MPs is limited by certain things, our calling about it and letters or explanations or procedural things that we have so far. So, if I get the information that no consent has been obtained from the RS entity for this law, if I get the information that all the elected ministers in the Council of Ministers have been voted on, I don't know what other information should be submitted here and that I speak at the level at which the distinguished colleague Hadjiahmetovic talks. At the same time, when we talk about that it is a law that crosses BiH's frameworks, as soon as the Constitution of the EU and BiH is adopted as an integral part of the EU and in what way I can appeal to certain members of the Constitution, we will bring the law without any problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26530	It's much clearer now. But here's the line. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26531	Thank you, Chairman. I respect, colleague Živković, your barriers, not personal but party, for the eventual adoption of some acts such as this. But the language of the profession used here as an argument couldn't allow me personally, based on my expertise not to react the way I reacted. Do not, i.e. when you explain your reasons against any draft law such as here – I did not mean you but generally speak – do not use the language of the profession... and the arguments of the profession, because they are really not arguments here. I can understand that you have an argument, or an order, or a directive not to vote for something but, I mean, don't use professional arguments for that, because they don't stand, especially those who are spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26532	Let's go, now let's go, Željko Kuzmanović. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26533	Well, I have to replicate to Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović, I, here's a case play, a longtime banker and a graduate economist. So if it's not professional enough for this home, then I don't know what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26534	Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26535	Well, I have to say that here some fellow MPs are trying to place some story which, I must admit, is very... for an ordinary man. It is said to be the law that should be for the EU, we should get close to the EU, then a simple man would say so what about those who won't support it, which is why they seem to want one, and the other won't join the EU. Please be nice, here insists on some professional arguments, reasons and others, and whether any of these MPs here, who should protect the Constitution and the law of this country, thinks that, aside from the profession and everything, that we should all protect, first of all, the Constitution of BiH as it is currently in force. And this constitution says nicely what is whose jurisdiction and... what is who in charge of this country. If jurisdiction is still in place that certain competences exist with entities, then leave the profession and leave it there... the story that we now need to do just for the sake of the EU to accept it. Well, you know very well, now I'm going to remind you of one... situation, people say in the people: when relatives or neighborhoods greatly praise a man, then he must be missing something, while they insist so much and potentiate. Do not put us in a situation and put the people in a position to adapt the Beekeepers' Law to enter the EU because of what needs to be done for the EU. It's going to become a degutant story about it, and you all know very well what to do, what to whose jurisdiction and what level to go to. If Mr. Živković said that the elected ministers from the Serb people's order in the Council of Ministers, there is no constitutional basis for such a law, then I don't know what we're talking about. The SNSD also said in a previous situation that we will no longer support any law where the revoted Serbian people's ministers in the Council of Ministers are, and I don't know what we're talking about now when it's clear, but someone insists on pushing that story just under the EU firm.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26536	Let's move on to the replicas. Azra Hadžiahmetović, second. He's giving up. Remzija Kadrić, first.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26537	First. Therefore, constitutional jurisdiction, competence in BiH in this area is provided for in Article III. (the competences of BiH institutions), and under d) it says: 'Monetary policy, as provided for by Article VII', and here is a colleague of Azra Hadžiahmetović, who is an expert in these matters, and 37 foreign currency policy is directly related to monetary policy. Therefore, BiH's jurisdiction over these matters is the exclusive responsibility of BiH, the electoral authority, you do not need any consent from the entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26538	Okay. Are we done? We did. Let's go to the hearing now. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26539	Thank you, Chairman. I could, given the length of this debate, set this up as a replica, but here I wasn't, since there was a little bit more in that line of replicas, so then I pressed this button for discussion. I mean, I think, so let's just say, neither of the other colleagues are quite right. In fact, it can't be said that BiH... has no jurisdiction in this area. I don't think the problem with this law is whether or not there are in this area of BiH jurisdiction, how much is the problem with the principle of the law on which it is set. Here, within these competences, the legislator has entered into what is not BiH's jurisdiction, and that is the essence of this law. So this law is not a framework law, nor does it speak about the framework of foreign policy. If he did, I think these discussions would look completely different. I believe that even colleagues who spoke of jurisdiction would then not speak of jurisdiction but would discuss the members individually, or we would enter that second amendment phase. The way this law treats this problem is problematic. Both he and his principles discussed in the first reading are the problem and are coming out of the sphere of BiH's competence in this area. Of course, we could analyze individual members now, we could talk about who they are and who they're not. But here, I'll just read in Article 19 of the law: 'BiH and entities must fully cooperate and take all measures to fulfil the obligations arising from this law.' So, in order to respect this provision, and I accept that it should be if we already pass the law that it must be respected, then it must indeed contain only the basics of foreign policy that it has meant part of BiH's jurisdiction. If we're looking at it from that side, then there's more possibilities here. One of the options is that we do not, of course, adopt this law, so that the legislator sits and, based on these discussions that are being conducted here, proposes another text of law which can and before means someone there proposes a period and will be in agreement with all those who need to support it here, first of all, with their colleagues in the Council of Ministers. And that's one possibility. It's a different option to go back. Of course, it is a business problem whether we can return the bill to the legislator at all, because our Rules of Procedure does not give that possibility – namely, this is no longer the legislator's law, and it is our law – and it is problematic, means that we return to the Proposer to continue, I don't know, either, but what we can do: perhaps we can return it to the Commission, in fact, to the competent commission that has accepted the principles here, because it has obviously accepted the principles and that at this stage we return them again to try to get the text of the law that is acceptable. It's a long shot. 38 I don't see, I don't really see the possibility of this law surviving unless something inside is seriously done at this stage until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26540	Business intervention, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26541	Business intervention refers to Mr. Novaković's last words. I mean, it's possible to get out of this situation. The Council of Ministers should withdraw the law by the end of the debate in the first reading. It's the way the law can start over. And when we talked about constitutional jurisdiction, I only mentioned two steps. So no consent has been obtained from the RS, the overvoted Council of Ministers, I have not touched the Constitution at all, constitutional provisions, etc., etc. But we can therefore get out of this opportunity and call on this Parliament and the Council of Ministers to withdraw this law by the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26542	Of course, you've heard various possibilities, but I don't have anything official yet. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on point 4. Let's go to point 5. Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on the use of sign language – Proposers: MPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić (first reading) It's about the law in first reading. Opinion on constitutional basis and principles, the Commission delivered on 24 April. A valid constitutional basis has been established and the principles of law are supported. I'm opening a debate about the law. I don't have any charges to argue with. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26544	He's got Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26545	Here you go, Mr. Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26546	I have applied for the debate and by preparing myself for this item on the agenda I really want to publicly commend the College that it has delivered this proposal for a law on the use of sign language. Unfortunately, I don't know why we didn't get this from the Council of Ministers, because this area is 39 need to be regulated in an explanation, especially what is said, means that the reason for the adoption of this law is the right of deaf and deaf people to be equally involved in the environment and work. It is one of our obligations and above all... I express one disdain for why this, what I said earlier, did not come from the Council of Ministers and therefore is not taken care of enough of this area. What I would like to warn is that immediately at the beginning of the Council of Ministers, it is asked to comply with these deadlines set here, within the deadlines to form a commission and I think that the commission and the composition of the commission, relating to the tasks to be done, corresponds to the needs of both this law and the problems that this law treats. And in the end, I really want to give full support and commendation to the initiators and the legislators of this law to discuss this law at the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26547	Thank you, Mr. Nanić. It will be correct to say that it is an initiative of the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf Persons, etc., which we considered very justified and used the business opportunities and provided the opinion of our constitutional sector. However, there is information that the Council of Ministers, more specifically, has something to do with this plan in the ministry of justice. However, our procedure is already under way and it may not be too late to use it now, to consult at this second stage, but it could no longer wait to be done and this, in my view, is quite correct. Anyway, I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate on point 5. Moving to point 6. Ad. Six. Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of Amendments to the BiH Constitution – Proposers: Members of the SDA Club On March 10th, they submitted a proposal for a decision to the procedure. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission has been given 24. 4. and, as you have seen from this report, the Commission found by majority that there was a valid constitutional basis and supported the principles of the proposed decision. The word comes from Šefik Džaferović, I suppose, as president of the Constitutional Commission or MPs. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26549	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to remind myself that the proposal for this decision is, in fact, the realization of the request of the president of the three political parties in BiH – the SDA, SNSD and HDZ BiH – who... have sent letters to their clubs in which all three have proposed 40 to bring together a broad parliamentary majority here in Parliament and that Parliament is determined to enter the constitutional reform process. So the proposal for this decision represents nothing more than the realization of it. It contains nothing that is not written in a letter signed by the president of the three political parties. I know that a different discussion was opened afterwards, both here in Parliament and past Parliament, but here is today the opportunity to also formally represent a home on these principles agreed between one part of the political parties. This, of course, is not enough for constitutional reform, constitutional reform needs one broader gathering and, behold, this represents an attempt of this kind. Here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26550	I also want to remind you that this House of Representatives has adopted another conclusion on this subject, but unfortunately we have not yet realised it because of disagreements in some things. But here, every initiative is welcome. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26551	Thank you. Here, you, Mr. Belkić, said what I was going to say about this agenda point, because we had a significant debate, we had conclusions, so we had more initiatives on this subject. And now, when we look at the text of this decision, its content, it has already been incorporated largely into what we are representatives of all clubs, the College of both homes, constitutional commissions have concluded. And I think, first of all, we need to consider whether we can now, with this decision, in some way, postpone that process that we have led to the end. And that's where we should have information from the College. The college was supposed to see with the College of the People's House, but there was only a question here in the SDA initiative: whether representatives of clubs from the House of Nations would be part of this commission. So it would have been correct here and by the U.S.A. if she had reviewed the work so far and said to what extent this decision corresponds to what we've all been doing here together. I think he's very co-responsing, and it's possible to find a solution not to go back and not to start over, but to base the agreement between the colleges of both homes, representatives of all clubs, really go with the work of that commission. And here it is proposed that a commission be formed by one representative of each parliamentary party, which we have already concluded. And I basically support, I'm not contesting this initiative. I'm willing to support it, but I'm pointing to the fact that we're synchronizing it with one final proposal of the commission's composition and it's starting to work. We should already, in our conclusions, start working. And I think that today we need to give an answer whether this is possible to fit into what we've done so far. I think it is, and let's get started, and let the College take part in the responsibility for the commission's work. Thank you very much. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26552	Here, Mr. Raguž, that's exactly what you said, I'll just add two more sentences. So, we have tried to implement on the collegiate of both homes what we have received as a task from this group, which you are talking about, ustavnopravni, etc., but we do not have agreement on two things at the level of two colleges. In full agreement, we do not have two things, so on the content to be dealt with by this working group, on the engagement of expert groups of domestic, foreign, etc. So, unfortunately, we have a stalemate here, we don't have consent, we're trying to continue, but nobody in business has the right to prevent the initiative and it's there and it's going on. So, Denis Bećirović. Excuse me, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26553	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, let's add a little bit of what Mr. Chairman was talking about. Mr Tihić believes that we do not need to further consider this proposal that we had here at Parliament and which was adopted as a conclusion from you. He believes that there is a decision that has been adopted in the House of Peoples and the decision that is here today before us and that there is no need to discuss some other modes. And that's why we can't take a step further on this in front of the Kolegijum, which doesn't mean that the House of Representatives can't decide in any other way to do it. And, when I talk about this decision, I want to say that when we were thinking about the way it should be done, we didn't, and so the leader of the three agreed on the agreement, Mr. Džaferović -- it was said that the MPs' clubs write together. What happened was that the decision in the House of Peoples came from only three MPs, what happened was that only the SDA MP club was alone without agreeing with the other two clubs that had meant one agreement did it, it means the question, it seems, hastiness and has led us into one situation that a good idea has fallen into difficulty in a certain way. And, in my opinion, I personally believe that this decision no longer stands a chance in this way to pass through here. At the same time, the question arises: And if they accept it in this form, the House of Nations is not in the same form accepted. Later, delegates withdrew their consent to this decision from the House of Nations in front of the SNSD, so it puts into question the legitimacy of such a decision at all, even though we can say in business that it has been voted in orderly. At the same time, it seems to me that too many expectations in constitutional changes make us nervous. And I think we need to make an atmosphere and a good preparation for constitutional changes in BiH to come up with quality solutions. It seems to me that the harmonisation of the BiH Constitution with the European Convention on Human Rights – which is also suggested by the views of our BiH agents before the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg – is necessary and necessary for the BiH Constitution to change in this regard. And some other things that seem to me to have a high degree of consensus in this country could change, but that is why it takes the support of all parties in the BiH Parliament to be eager and willing to talk about it, to consider, to create a commission, and not just three political parties in three MPs' clubs. That's why our intention was to include everyone to work on a broad scale. What's the subject of conversation? The subject of the talks is the Constitution of BiH. How can a solution be reached? A consensus can be reached. Everything else is a waste of time. If there is no consensus in any of our joint statements, they will not have the opportunity to bring any constitutional amendments at all. 42 At the same time, I do not think it is raising tension in BiH. I do not think that this is something that should not be done in BiH if citizens, i.e. constituent peoples who are the holders of the legitimacy of this BiH -- what they want from this country. And that's why I'm suggesting a conclusion on this agenda point. - As part of pre-prepared actions and possible decisions on possible constitutional changes in BiH, the House of Representatives tasks the BiH Statistics Agency in co-operation with the entity statistical institutions in June - in July of the current year to conduct a survey on the entire territory of BiH with three groups of issues that would concern the desire, will and readiness of three constituent peoples to live in one country. Then, questions relating to the model and the name of the country in which these same peoples, citizens and others would possibly want to live, as well as the question of a possible territorial organisation of the country." Why don't you ask people? Why don't we do a survey? It's not a referendum, it's a survey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26554	I thank my esteemed colleague, Živković. Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26555	Well, you see, when I signed up for the line, I hadn't heard this novelty Mr. Živković invented at the pay phone, so first of all, I'll only say two sentences about it. Mr. Živković, I beg you and all of us, so when I speak here in Parliament, we know that we are acting under the Constitution of BiH. Do not advocate anti-dayton and anti-constitutional matters and do not make any referendums camouflage with any surveys and know that You – the sovereignty and territorial integrity of this country are guaranteed and will never be able to question them! And don't play with it anymore, not even for the pay phone here. That's it. About how BiH will look on the inside, we will agree on that, and that is the thing that can be achieved by consensus within BiH. And the talks about sovereignty and territorial integrity and no questions, no polls or referendums -- that's not going to be what you know. That's one thing. Secondly, when the SDA initiative was submitted, there were no other initiatives. The House of the Peoples has not made its decision either. We launched it based on what we got as a signature from the president of the three political parties. After that, we waited for the application and for you, among other things, Mr Živković, and for the Constitutional Commission here in Parliament – to see what would happen, if we could gather around this idea. Here in this proposal, the decision does not say a letter, no comma, no less than what the three presidents of the political party signed here in Sarajevo after Prud in their request to us. Not a letter, not a dot, not a decimal, not more or less, just as it's written. 43 And this is today a chance to see if it was an honest agreement or if someone may have put their signature on by misleading others in order to reach some other political points. What is wrong with Parliament making a decision to enter the constitutional reform process and to be issues? Here, I'm saying today, even though it says it, it's prescribed there, even though it's written by a territorial organization, here I'm saying publicly that it's not real now in BiH about talking. But they signed it. And that's why it's written here in this document. And why wouldn't it cost if they signed it, if we're serious, and if we're determined to do it. And don't ever again, I'm telling you again, I beg you, don't play with any more words when it comes to the sovereignty and integrity of this country. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26556	The Honorable First Vice-President, Dr. Milorad Živković, responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26557	Mr. Džaferović, I know that you are nervous given your internal problem and do not tell me what to say about this speaker in view of the BiH Constitution that gives me the right to say and express my opinion here. If citizens, constitutional peoples, are not allowed to ask themselves what they want from this country in BiH, this is not the state, this is the dungeon of the people. And don't lecture me again what I can do, what I can't do, it can be voted yes and against. You can do that somewhere else and tell other people. As for the decision itself, Mr. Džaferović, about this honesty between you and your party, why is it not the same decision that came to the House of Peoples and here at the House of Representatives? Why are current issues inserted into the House of Peoples and why did your party president come out and say that 90% of the Constitution is changing, practically bringing a new constitution? So, you can go on changing the entire BiH Constitution, 90% of the new constitution, and you can't ask the citizens and peoples of this country what they want from this country. Don't lecture anymore, please, but vote for or against.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26558	Thank you. Next up is Honorable Representative Martin Raguž, Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26559	So they're here like they're on the way, but they're talking about important things. First, we've all accepted, so through that conclusion, the decision to set up a commission. And we did it under your chairmanship and we agreed on what that commission would look like and who would do it. And today as if we were doing nothing here, in front of the public, it means we're starting again from the beginning. I can't accept it, and it's going to be up to those who made those decisions and now they're not ready to accept them. Because whoever's among them, I won't talk about it, Mr. Živković. Of course, it is your legitimate right to make political views, and it is also legitimate for us to warn that the constitutional reform yesterday by a man representing the international community 44 is ranked on the highest list of priorities. That Resolution 171 was adopted last night at the American Congress, calls for an urgent constitutional reform. And what are we doing here? We're playing games. I have not once mentioned the story that this party HDZ 1990 has submitted its greatest support to Parliament at all by the number of votes, 28 out of 37. So we accepted a direct conclusion... that we work together, it's not our initiative anymore, let's do something together. And, Mr. Džaferović, it's not true that your initiative was waiting, we had an initiative for you before. And secondly, it doesn't matter who had the initiative anymore. We've brought to the College with all the parties to the conclusion that we're going to work and now we're giving it up. I don't accept that giving up, those who give up, and I'm going to suggest the conclusion that they're going to have to be legalized publicly. Of course,... they have the right to stand up and take political responsibility. But one huge job done so far should fall into the water. We can't give up on that. I think that we should stick to the conclusions that we have together at the College of Both Homes, the Constitutional Commission, club presidents, there are only two details left – and that we are working on it. It is a sufficient framework for what you said, Mr. Živković, it was a sufficient framework, a correct framework for all. But also accept that in this decision even the SDA, that is true, is the right gentleman, signed by the leader – and why it is not respected now. And let's once... let's really and openly say, if we're looking for our responsibility, our domestic institutions, the departure of OHR, the transition, then let's show that we can at least do what we sign. I don't think there's any giving up what's been agreed on at the College, that we've formed a commission and that we should keep working. Inside that, all initiatives need to be incorporated and not to put things back, not to waste time, and to be responsible for ourselves. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26560	Thank you. Next for the replica, Honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26561	Well, I didn't expect to replicate Mr. Raguž, but I'm not sure we recognize each other in your story, not a single sentence to see, to see SNSD. When there was a story about three leaders, in this House many have said what the three of them can't do, the three of them all need it. When we transferred on that commission to everything, now someone's returning to those three leaders. Why? Well, I see, if we said and we stand behind what we did on that committee, we stand behind that process, but then we clearly said that the three leaders' agreement could still be only the subject of these talks, but the basis is what we agreed on that commission, because everyone didn't accept it until then: they can't, they're not enough, they're small, they're like this, and they're falling into the water from those who said so. So if we want to be principled, we say, here we go. And we took part in that commission on the basis that we all agreed on. And today some others suddenly return everything before that commission, and you should honestly tell them that they're guilty of it and that they're trying something else. 45 What else are they trying to do, what Mr. Džaferović just said? The SDA is the big, perhaps the biggest party, right, and it is logical that the whole of BiH shakes a little when the party shakes. And it makes sense that this party has two proposals by two wings. But we don't have to be the hostages of those two wings that fuck each other's wings or keep on doing what they're doing. I was surprised that this wing that was public in the media against a territorial organization that suddenly became a proposing, and publicly said that the other one shouldn't have done it, that we weren't hostages to the story of a territorial organization, that you would be the same to us here right now... So he had two parts of the party in two homes, two documents. We know we're in that story now, we have to be hostages to that SDA election for one half hour or an hour, and I understand that, and I can even watch it with sympathy. I don't care, I can even tell you who I'm up against or who I'm against, and we have a box in the hallway and we're throwing in, uh, she's, uh, she's already going. I'm looking at it that way, it's really an insider thing. But what is not, Mr. Džaferović, is not in power in BiH sultan. And the Sultan asked some people. It's not a mosque either. And there they ask some people. And with such a tone that no people will ask themselves here, God Bog anyone ever speaks to this House again. They will wonder, and you will call it what you will, by talking, by chattering over coffee, by coffee, by referendum, by polling, by asking the people, and God Bog the time comes no more to ask the people. If you're going to choke and you remember the time when it was choked not to ask, but you shot down the '90s. those times, because you said they were evil, that they were nothing, that times were dark. And I don't know why, how can you come up with a solution, not to ask the people? How can you come, how do you think I work here without asking the people? How are we supposed to get out of the election without asking the people? That, that, that's a terrible message that I don't want to hear anymore. People have to ask themselves. I know that you've said it a little awkwardly, that it should be in...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26562	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26563	...some basements, so that someone else, and those times have passed. We didn't want to get back together with it, we're going to ask in this form or that form, and it's not a good message not to ask him, because I'm not here, I'm not here, I'm not the heir, I'm not the king's line. I depend here on the people, on his attitude and his choice, and, I don't want to, I have to ask, because I would send him an insult to say I won't ask you, I will bring the Constitution myself, I have such a political back that I can, without your question, solve these big things here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26564	Let's get on with it. Milica Marković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26565	It is a replica and an incorrect quote. I'll tell Mr. Džaferović first.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26566	And an incorrect allegation. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26567	Yes, this is, Mr. Džaferović, it would really be a time to understand both you and those who think as much as you do that a time has passed when someone can threaten and impose how they will live and work in this country. You in BiH today cannot force two people to do what you tell him, because it immediately calls for human rights and has a million institutions to protect itself, let alone threaten and force more than a million people in this BiH to live and organise themselves and to even organise in BiH as the SDA Party says. I'll just remind you of the beginning of '92. When a politician is from your party, and you know very well who it is, he said he would not sacrifice sovereignty for peace, but would sacrifice peace for BiH's sovereignty. And shortly thereafter, this country went the way it went, or went into the sun. My colleague already said that you've already declared yourself in those times, that it's a dark time, that it's a time past and that these are dark times that never need to happen again, and I think the same thing. But don't put anyone in a position here to try to threaten him or threaten him that it has to be as the SDA party says in this parliament, because it won't be safe, it will be as agreed and as the people say, one and the other and third and national minorities, all who live in this BiH, which form will be the modality, we'll talk about it. It's a replica. A false allegation. You said the three leaders had agreed and that in this decision, which you have presented here, there is no letter nor less than what the three leaders agreed on. I am now saying that the leader of my party, Mr Dodik and the RS prime minister, would never sign a single document asking the question, i.e. opening the issue of a territorial organisation in BiH, which explicitly requires that the new constitution of BiH affect and act as representatives of the international community. The SNSD's stance is clear on representatives of the international community and on the fate of BiH, which is that the fate should be agreed and resolved only by the legally elected representatives and institutions of BiH, not by any international representatives, the Venice Commission, these, they, we know very well so far that they have been building fate and what BiH has led to.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26568	I am asking future replica participants to keep the replicas in line with the topic we are discussing. So, we're not discussing either parties or leaders, we're discussing one document that's the subject of the debate. Mr. Lozančić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26569	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, honored guests, this could be called business intervention and replicas and correcting an incorrect quote, incorrect allegations, I don't know, here, and understand whatever you want. On the agenda, we have a proposal for a decision to join the BiH Constitution. We've opened a debate on constitutional changes. We call for agreements, we call for initiatives, we call for people, nothing new, everything that's already been seen here. Key question: do we, do this parliament want to enter the constitutional process? And that's a question of all the questions, everything else is easy after. If we want to enter the process of constitutional change, then we will accept this decision, and what will be the result of this decision – it is a whole other pair of shoes and so on, or something else. So, totally different if we want to. Here's the key question: do we want to get into it? I'll say 47 right away from this debate: I can see we don't want to. And that's why I answered more, not that I can assure anyone that he wants to if he doesn't want to, not that he doesn't want to if he wants to. Everyone here knows who wants to, who doesn't want to, why someone wants to, why someone doesn't want to, there's no need to make sure. I wanted to invite all of us, because we started using very difficult words, we started using tones very hard, there's no need for that. Don't let us poison the atmosphere because we disagree. We don't agree on much, about many questions, but let's try to work at least what we agree on. So, and I'm just going to give a brief answer about one conclusion of this home on Mr. Križanović's proposal that hasn't been realized, and I believe he won't be realized. So, not because I don't want to, but because there's no political will. It doesn't matter if we define the method and content through that conclusion, if we want the content of the commission to do it, whether we want dynamics etc. Or we'll go through this decision. If we could and wanted to realize that conclusion, I'm talking about all of us, if it didn't get me wrong, we could have realized this conclusion by now, and this motion for a decision would be too high, and that's what the promoters know. Therefore, if we do not waste time or emotion, whoever thinks the process should not go, he will plead against it; whoever thinks he should, he will support the decision. Whether it's this decision or they're unrealized conclusions, believe it's really peripheral. And here I am, calling again means all of us. Folks, one sentence is said as some have too many expectations, the people seem to have unfounded expectations of us. I'm sorry, but it's obvious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26570	Let's just keep wasting our time and let you know, just a little bit, that the break is at 1:00 and it'll last until 2.30. Križanović, business. ...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26571	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a suggestion, Mr. Chairman, if possible. And you see the list of those reported for discussion has frozen, frozen, has half an hour, and the list of replicas is growing. I would suggest, if possible, a little delay in these replicas, that you give people the opportunity to say specifically about this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26572	Nothing new, this isn't the first time, Mr. Križanović. Let's take it in a row. Martin Raguž, Martin Raguž, replica. No problem, sign in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26573	So my replica refers to... 48
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26574	Business.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26575	... what Mr. Kalabić said. So he said he wasn't in my story. I don't expect us to be in the story, in the stories, I expect to meet with arguments if we can meet. So, I just warned that we did one important job and we didn't start working on that commission, and I think we should do it. And I didn't even assess the right and constitutional story that comes from his party's position, nor did I speak of the position of my own party. And that's very true, Mr. Kalabić, and I didn't dispute the leaders' initiatives at the time, not now. And don't object to those who... we've been waiting for an official proposal from those leaders. Why didn't he come, whose responsibility was that? Those who have been sending initiatives to move things into Parliament and those who have signed different cities in BiH, and have not yet reached Parliament? That's the argument, Mr. Kalabić, it doesn't matter. And in the story, I will now tell you what my story is about this is a European democratic constitution, the same rights for every man and every collectiveity in this country. If we're gonna meet sometime in that story, I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26576	Replica, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26577	Just for a little while. I think it's completely unnecessary to open this kind of discussion. I said in my discussion that it was good to change the Constitution for all of us, for everything we need to do and, of course, we can do it by consensus here in BiH. But until then, we have a constitution, it's Dayton and it has to be respected and the meaning of my intervention was: until it changes and it doesn't go forward, it has to be literally respected what it says in eleven Dayton annexes and everything that happened afterwards; I mean the Constitutional Court Decision, etc. So that's my position and no other intentions and nothing else. Don't let us bring up some things here that are some sort of... sneezing character. We call each other, we're nervous, we're not nervous, I've always felt more nervous about the one who calls the other nervous. Pleased to meet you, Mr. Kalabić, don't worry about the SDA. 27. You will have even stronger, stronger SDA than you have today. We'll all have it and, thank Bog, it's good for this country, no matter who wins or what the result is. And the third thing, you see those four points, my colleague Marković, I've been thinking about that, the four points that are written and what's the content: neither the letter, nor the decimal, nor the less, nor the three leaders signed. You really look at it and you'll see. That's what I meant when I talked about it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26578	Here you go, Mr. Križanović. You're on your way. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26579	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm going to be very brief and I don't know how... to title this replica. She'd be a general character, to say the least. We are discussing a concrete one-legal initiative and a particular club to launch constitutional changes. But here I want to say that in the experience that we had in the realization of the previous conclusion, that's what our colleagues were talking about, we can expect this to not naturally come to life. We cannot form a commission or working group to make this, change the BiH Constitution, let alone agree on some content of change. Instead, you see this agreement by the three leaders who... should be regulated into some work on the amendment of the Constitution, was brought to Banja Luka, I think, sometime at the 12th month of last year, so it was three months before the initiative came, as it was called, while writing, and what, five months, five months passed by by when it came to this house. So... this is about dishonesty, a lack of will and determination to really do it. If this were an honest intention, then these three clubs, whose party presidents initiated this, would come up with a concrete proposal of what they were thinking here when they wrote what these constitutional changes contain. They came out as a proposal in the debate or initiated a concrete proposal and then it would make sense and lead to some result. Denial here that one of the presidents thought differently, what his colleague Raguž said, so they signed it, people, it... knows the public of all BiH. Although they perceived this as the content of constitutional changes, they must have had a vision of what it implies. And the logical thing is that... or one club of those three parties or all three come out with a concrete proposal that we know what the content of constitutional changes is. We're going to form groups and say we're going from the beginning to constitutional change, I don't think we have a chance here, no determination, no will, no ability, no desire, and, of course, most importantly, it won't lead to any results, at least this year. So, instead of... supporting this decision, I suggest that, in accordance with the definition of these three parties, they commit themselves and come up with a concrete proposal of what they expected and thought by signing one of these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26580	Drago Kalabić, replica for the second time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26581	Yeah. I'm not sorry to spend two replicas. However, this is an important thing, and I'm sorry that we've been brought into this situation, but we can't keep our mouth shut about such important issues. But this time I wanted to commend my colleague who came out and I'm sorry he came out because he now had a good discussion with his colleague, Džaferović, and that's good, it's not controversial. When they come out into the hallway, then these people from Tuzla, they say, we're for Tihić, and we need to boil it down for about ten minutes or those from Bihac, and I think it's the fruit of that kind of nervousness and I don't think anything bad about it. And he didn't need that first discussion, but when this story is about Mr. Raguž and Mr. Lozančić, as we don't know, we don't know who's responsible for what, so that's: he's mixing grandmothers and frogs in the story. We know what was going on, and we know how we formed a commission, and we know who blocked the procedure on the commission, and we know it was at Mr. Križanović's request, and we know that we had an agreement on everyone to form it. 50 _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Yeah, yeah. And we know who blocked it, and we don't want to do this job, but we're going back, even though we're on... Constitutional law... _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26584	We now have the replica Denis Bećirović and the discussion at the same time. So, up to your break, Mr. Bećirović. You've done well. Jozo, this is your recipe. This is Jozo's recipe.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26585	Mr. Chairman, I would, if you would allow me to give up the replica and use my 10 minutes for discussion, provided that also colleague Hadžiahmetović allows it to be a discussion, not a replica. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26586	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26587	Okay, 10 minutes, then we'll be there. I think that the topic we are talking about today is an important topic and there is no doubt that BiH and the people living in this country deserve a better constitution than they do today. It is evident, too, that we are very late at this job. And it is evident that there is much more sobriety, calmness and much less tension in Parliament, unlike the tone that has been discussed so far, when we talk about this issue. I also think there is no such question, nor these polls, nor is it good to ask such questions and such polls that question BiH's independence and sovereignty. I don't think we need such flammable questions and such flammable polls at all. We all know what's going on in these situations, and right now, let's say, such a question raises another flammable question to all BiH citizens: Are you in favour of abolishing, say, entities in BiH?, so we would be wondering what the result would be, etc. But I'm saying we all don't need that together. We need a turn in a completely different direction, towards those real topics, not more about flammable topics. We have today, and we are talking about whether, the proposal for a decision on the accession of the BiH Constitution and is proposed by the SDA Club. I must say and note that the proposer of this agenda, the SDA Club, does not give a very serious tone to this debate with the fact... that half the club, including the president and the deputy club, does not attend this debate at all today, but about that, afterwards. I will come here to this point 2, it is said, 'The Commission will be composed of one representative of each parliamentary political party.' Of course, there's a question of what's going on with the Constitutional Commission. It's logical that she was invited to deal with this problem. The second is a question that we can ask from the SDP: How is it that the largest opposition parties in Parliament are not in this commission? But that's democracy, too, under allegations. I want to say that SDP will not participate in the work on changes to the Constitution that need to bring things back to zero, even below zero. When the current majority in BiH, the parliamentary majority offers a text of amendments and additions to the BiH Constitution that will be the April package plus, the SDP is ready to be involved in the talks on changes and additions to the BiH Constitution. However, unlike the people who belong to the parliamentary majority, I must say that accession to the amendments and additions to the BiH Constitution is not just a matter and need to adopt a new BiH constitution. I would say it's a matter of responsibility to citizens, peoples and this country. When I say that, I mean the next one. It is not only a promise to remind you, from Prud or Banja Luka in 2008, that it is a promise to the citizens of BiH and that, ultimately, the text of the signed agreement on the basis of which the Council of Ministers was formed and the current parliamentary majority which is what it is, but still still still exists today. That is why this would be better to stand here in the title, not the proposal for a decision to join the BiH Constitution, but here I propose that it be 'A decision to join the programme objectives of six political parties from January 2007.' So, there is another story now which of these political parties has come out of the parliamentary majority or not, but it is an official agreement that is still in force and on the basis of which it is also reminded that in these programme objectives and in this agreement, 52 literally says: 'To bring new constitutional solutions that will establish a functional and modern BiH with European standards'. So, to recap, (and here is half the discussion relative to the minute I have cut), I want to say, therefore, this is not the question today whether we are going to approach or not, this is a question for six ruling parties: will it realize what they signed when they formed the parliamentary majority at the level of the BiH state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26588	The replica of Azra Hadžiahmetović and the break after the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26589	Thank you, Chairman. I was trying to fit my intervention into the Rules of Procedure, so I don't know what it would be called. I had problems with that, but now I really know that the replica, first of all, is on a good part of my colleague Bećirović's discussion. I have been paying attention today, as you can see, and the entire Party for BiH Party has listened to these controversy and debates on the Prudic Agreement, the Prussian Troika, the realization of the conclusions of the Prudic Agreement, the different visions of participants in the Prussian Agreement, the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, the state of the SDA, and now we have the position and opposition, so we have an attempt to expand all of this to six, namely the ruling furniture and leaders of six political parties, and all this, called the Proposal for a decision to join the amendments to the Constitution. We were at least talking about the Constitution today. And I think if you want to, excuse the expression, put on a good idea, then go for a bad, bad realization. And I'm afraid stories like this and discussions like this will really lead us to a good idea. I won't even say a good idea but really needy and needy, because I wonder after today's controversy and incendiary tones, false allegations, calls for the past, etc., what if we don't make today's "A decision on the accessions of the amendments to the Constitution". Does that mean we won't change the Constitution? I ask all those who have an argument to adopt this decision and against adopting this decision to think about what is really on the agenda. And, here, I would suggest, in that sense, that we might consider all these initiatives, and we have a lot of them, and some of them that are sour and a little bit longer in this House, and decisions in the newer times and initiatives, and so maybe we forget the addresses where they come from, let's address them where they belong, to some body, or to the Constitutional Commission, so let's let them propose to us specifically what we do. Or, and if you want, to support what was adopted last night at the American Congress in Resolution 171, in which it is called..., is BiH on the necessity of constitutional reforms, on an urgent constitutional reform that will allow Bosnia to become effective and effective in carrying out its domestic and international obligations, especially regarding the EU-NATO accession process, so let someone deal with how or how to realise this. So, I ask you to consider all of you who have been very keenly involved in this decision's debate so far: what can it mean or what kind of message we send unless we adopt such a decision, or if someone is against this decision, as well, and I suggest that they think about it. Thank you. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26590	Here's the break, let me just check it out. Mr. Križanović, did you sign up for this discussion and Mr. Kalabić for the discussion. No, no, it's a break, and if this is registered now and for discussion. Yes, and after the break, Kalabić, excellent. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats, keep working. Just hurry up, please, we're already late. Here, I think when Mr. Džaferović sits down, we have a quorum. Here's the stronger, Mr. Prodanović. Let's get back to work. So when I left, I registered a different list here that was on screens. So, I had Mr. Dokić reported if it wasn't a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26592	It's not a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26593	But here, look, Dokić, let the diversion happen so you're gone. So I've got a report later on from Kadrić. I see Novaković here too, if it wasn't a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26594	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26595	Well, then we'll do it like this... So as soon as a man moves, something breaks. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26596	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At one point, you said a legitimate regency: well, let's keep wasting our time, so I was thinking if it's my turn to make a contribution to it. And here, I will, but I'll try to make it as small as possible. I think everyone's here, and even the promoters, if they're going to be honest, it's perfectly clear that it's a day-to-day, as I'd say, a day-to-day-political activity that's known in advance of how it's going to go. Calling on the three party leaders who make up most of the congregation's majority, I don't think it's principled, not to use a bigger word, because if it were principled then those three parties would at least come out with such a proposal. Apparently they didn't do it and 54 I don't think it's right that one party, of those three, of the heritage, if you take, is a good result that these three have achieved. That good result should be followed by at least three parties and yet to convince one part of the congregation’s majority in order to make this a serious story at all. So, there's a very open question that my colleague Azra asked, and here I'm just going to underline: what does it mean if we refuse today, and most likely we refuse, does that mean that we've given up any initiative on constitutional change? Therefore, my appeal to the promoters to do the general interest, and not to do the day-to-day policy of some messages, they themselves withdraw this proposal, not to put us in a position at all to declare it and to return it to that procedure of discussion as it has already been initiated, along with one of my suggestions, additionally, that even in this initial procedure through the participation of all parties, in the way that it has been started in the College, that, in the definition of the discussions on changes, it takes care of what it is possible to do. Let's take one step further on this issue, relax these political relations, create conditions for greater confidence and, besides, I must tell you one of my own personal impressions, and that is the position of the PDP whose MP I am here, one thing and that is the harmonisation of the BiH Constitution with the European Convention on Human Freedoms and rights is a kind of hostage to our huge demands when it comes to constitutional changes. It seems to me that there is a consensus here in this House that we need to do this. So why don't we go that way and eventually see what else we can agree on and do it in this election year. Anything else, I'm afraid it'll lead us to be able to say that we've had fun about ourselves and, when we have fun about ourselves, we won't do anything. And once again, my appeal is, and this is why I came forward, I would like it to have been before -- that they themselves withdraw this proposal and make a full contribution to a wider one or, let me say, a comprehensive agreement on how to go about these changes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26597	Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26598	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26599	I saw you were up for discussion, so you've changed your mind lately. Aza Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26600	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, I would, in fact, like to say a comment on what my colleague Dokić said and, in fact, in some ways, try to help and strengthen the specific weight of certain things he said, of course I disagree with someone. I would actually say that this consensus on the need for constitutional changes is something that we are all absolutely aware of and that, in some way, we could come out of this item of the agenda by actually proposing one conclusion on this point, which would read: 55 'The decision on the proposal for accession to the BiH Constitution and the decision is forwarded to the Constitutional Commission to propose a model of accession to the constitutional amendments to the BiH Constitution.' In this way, we could, in some ways, reflect the need to join constitutional changes and possibly accept this conclusion, mean forwarding to our respective committee all the initiatives so far, all the conclusions so far, including this decision, and thus making a combination of good intentions and knowledge of the need for constitutional change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26601	We're going back to the public for discussion. Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26602	I thank you, Chairman. I will try to be completely brief in this discussion. I will come from the assumption that the decision to join the changes to the BiH Constitution has nothing to do with it, although it has often been mentioned, several times here and Džaferović mentioned that it is in direct connection with this Prudic agreement. So, I'm going to start from the assumption, from the belief of someone based on these discussions that we had until lunch that this decision has nothing to do with the Prudic Agreement and even more so on the basis of these discussions that there is a Prud, there really is a Prud, but there is no "Prudian Agreement." So, there's something pretty problematic about it. I did, once before and before, ask for an argument about that so-called. The Prudish Agreement to see that here people come to say whether they really... signed anything in Prudo, whether there was any joint statement or not and, behold, today I am convinced that this is really all questionable, and the existence of such an agreement and any agreement at all. Therefore, but starting from the assumption, I am starting from this decision by the SDA MPs' Club signed by Bakir Izetbegović that she is the one needed thing and this is the topic that this House should discuss and make decisions. For these reasons, I believe that, here,... certain amendments to this decision, I think it would be good to, in point 2 of this decision, which states that a commission will be formed to do the text of the amendment to the BiH Constitution or to add words, or to propose a new text of the BiH Constitution. So, if there is some agreement, willingness and in this commission to offer one alternative other than amendments and to offer one new text of the Constitution by the Commission. In addition, I think that if we were to involve the people and the people should be asked about these things, and especially when the Constitution, to add a new point 4, these other points would move, so my proposal for this new point 4 would read: '4. In drawing up the text of amendments or new texts, the Commission will respect the opinion and experts, as well as NGOs, public constitutionals, including the participation of international experts from the EU, the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission, and in particular expert assistance and expert opinions from the SDA." I think in that way this decision... would have one of its own fullness. 56 When it comes to these proposals or thinking about these polls and a statement about what the people should give their opinion on this whole story, what is important to point out here. So let's just remember that at the end of 1991 there was this kind of survey paper or, in fact, it was more like a statement, a plebistic statement offered by the SDS in late '91. years on where Srbin should live and then... the results of that plebiscite are known. What's important to mention here? It is important to note, therefore, that SDS does not renew such a story; and as far as SNSD is concerned, I do not think there will be any particular problems. That's the thing that SNSD, I'm convinced, is not on that story to insist on except today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26603	I have a business intervention, just one moment, Mr. Bajazit Jašarević's business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26604	Dear Mr. President, I wanted to propose on behalf of the SDA Club that this conclusion, which Professor Alajbegović made, be complemented: 'The debate is being interrupted, the decision is being delivered to the Constitutional Commission, and it is delaying the statement, and that on the basis of all the initiatives so far, the model of entry into constitutional changes is being proposed'. Is it possible to make a statement about this immediately? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26605	As far as I'm concerned, I'd be happy to tell you, when it comes to the content of the debate, however, I have four people, or five reported, and I wouldn't want to do, in some way, the situation unless people tell me themselves that they're giving up and then we'd put this proposal to the vote. On my record, Mr. Novaković is now up to speed. I see no one gives the signal that he's ready to give up. So, Mr. Novaković is on my record, and then here goes what you see on the screen. Mr. Novaković. And the one you can't see, it's Mr. Lozančić who called me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26606	I thank you, Chairman. I'll make a contribution not to waste much time here. So I'm just going to put a few things under for a little while. Namely, I don't think that... I have any problem when it comes to voting on this decision so it doesn't matter to me whether the SDA pulled a decision or she was at the vote. I think the result, at least from what I've seen so far, is the same. It is evident, of course, that both the SDA, or the proponent of this decision, is not convinced that this decision can be supported and 57 speaks of this last proposal, means that the discussion is interrupted and that the conclusion of our colleague Alajbegović is adopted. But here, I'll take a few, really, very short sentences. First of all, I think that today, perhaps too much in some things, this story about the Constitution has moved away from this decision itself. So, among other things, we came to see if we should adopt today a resolution that was adopted at the American Congress, so should we today support a resolution that basically said that we should approach constitutional changes here and what seems to me was never at all controversial here. We didn't argue about some other things, not about the need to approach these changes. Of course, the issue of the weight of this decision, you know, if we were to make a decision here, let's say, 'Resolution on the expansion of reservations in the United States' -- would Congress of the United States discuss it and draw some conclusions. So we have our own process here that we need to run independently and independently of these resolutions, of course, to try to make it work, not to take care of others and ultimately fail the process. I've been able to spot a few things from these discussions so far. Well, among other things, I noticed that the proposer himself, after all, said this wanted to check the honesty of all those who put their signature on the document. So it's not his intention to adopt this, it's his intention to verify honesty. The second thing I've noticed is that no one knows what anybody signed anymore. Here, from the SDA argues (and I know it is because I have this document here) that Article 1, or Article 1, of their decision, is completely rewritten and signed by the three leaders. And that's true, and there's a colleague Marković who's wrong not to talk about... BiH and the middle levels of government. So it's not like that. It is signed. And the only thing he didn't, and the House of Peoples adopted, was those other constitutional issues. When I look at it, I don't understand why a distinguished colleague from the House of Nations has withdrawn her consent to the decision she made. Namely, if the party president signed it, she obviously expressed one political naivety and thought that everything the president signed was enough to vote on. So, she needed, not enough signature, but needed... and to ask a little questions about the views of the party's own president. But here, most importantly, at this point today, neither the SNSD nor the other colleagues who discussed here from the RS have any intention of supporting this. I don't care, of course I don't want to be the hostage of the SDA election, I don't think I can be, so this process can't be the hostage of the SDA, because I'm more concerned that I don't become the hostage of that one signature on this document. And that's what worries me here, and not just me, but the whole RS. And that's why I'm glad the SNSD gave up that signature of their president. I am pleased that this signature is no longer valid and that today everything is practically transferred here to us, that is, this home which, among other things, proposed that conclusion or adopted the conclusion on Mr Križanović's proposal to form this working group. I don't think, however much we vote on this, we're not going to change the fate of that conclusion. That conclusion will go its course. Therefore, support or do not support this decision, the way in which this working group is formed will be as agreed. Obviously, we can't deal with that today. When I tell me, I mean two homes, or colleges two homes, and we have a problem. And, I don't even think, he probably Ragužn't agree with me, but I don't think he's even in that agreement the fate of constitutional change. I think that the fate of constitutional change in this country is not only in our hands but also in our hands, but, above all, the leader of 58 political parties and, of course, the international community, that is, the unity of the international community in the process which we have not known so far. And in the end, I'll be done. I didn't, of course, help or adopt, and I don't think I've been able to pass this decision by making these few views. I will not support, therefore, for these reasons that I have been talking about, I will not support this proposal for a decision on the accession of amendments to the Constitution, but I am still standing in the position that what we have begun to end or realize that we cannot respect our conclusion, inform Parliament that we are unable to do so, to open some other processes, because everyone is now practically waiting for the end of it, or to bring it to an end and start this business. It is not good to have that conclusion at rest for a long time, for virtually all the process will stand all that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26607	There's nothing left to do, it's all about movement, Mr. Novaković, and this conclusion of the SDP, but I would like to ask these next announced speakers not to announce help in both time and content. So, Hadži Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26608	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, considering this proposal for a decision to join the BiH Constitution at one point I realized that this item of the agenda has found its place for the reasons why it fits into the programme objectives of the majority that make up this parliament today. The truth is that it's the third point in the programming goals, and I thought they took seriously what's reform first, so what's left of it. In my opinion, in order to avoid violating the constitution, both the entity and the state constitution, it is necessary to find a solution, a constitutional solution that will simply fit into all this. I am afraid that these goals and this point, the third one, which is at these programme goals, and what is happening in the BiH Parliament today, are not just some political marketing that, by October, if something is not done, we will have elections behind October and we will have an uncertain situation in BiH again. We will have more and more of those who will find room for bribery, corruption, theft, creating a future for their children outside BiH, and BiH will put in one position where everything is there is, there is no justice alone. Unlike my colleagues, I agree with this majority who signed these programme objectives, especially when it comes to this constitutional change. We can say that we didn't enter the constitutional process and tell the public that we didn't, we did. What we believe is that the amendment to the Brcko District has really made one amendment, so we have introduced a new member, we have already begun to change the Constitution. What do different laws, framework laws, that are passed? They're breaking the Constitution, both of them, and I think they're bringing us into an even more confusing state. Behind that is what is hidden: What do we really want from all this? Do we want to make some constitution that will be a constitution for those who in some future, whether close or further, who do not want to live here and do not want their children to live here and keep this constitution in suspense or want to create a constitution in the future that will be a constitution guaranteed for all three peoples and provide them with safe life in this space. No one here is against anything, someone initially said, the sovereignty of BiH. 59 But here is obviously the problem of a member of the I. Constitution that we need to talk about openly, here is the obvious problem of the conversations that take place for the public allegedly by the will of the politicians from this space, and in essence the will of the circles of an international community that makes something that she herself thinks, and doesn't know what she wants from this country. This country can only be made by those people who live in it, only those people... who see their children's future in this area, no matter what its name was. Whether it was called the Federation, whether it was called the RS, whether it was called a third name, but it's essential that they agree. This question is quite good for politicizing and I don't think we have the right to politicize with this issue. That it is fortunate that we discussed this issue immediately after the signing of the Dayton Agreement, we immediately took some of the things into our own hands and made Bosnia, which I often say that what happened in this space, that it should not be the one in which, after this war, there must be a winner or defeated, in which no one will dispute BiH as sovereign, but also no one has the right to challenge the sovereignty of one, another, third nation living in this country, and to definitely sit down and to agree that this sovereignty can ensure that it is safe, that BiH is functioning, and that it is safe in its home. One local community makes up a series of houses. Every house is sovereign, and no one can break it down. Why BiH can't also do a series of autonomys in which it will have some kind of security. Are we going to allow us to come to the next election, but again with the international community's gratitude? I'll never get her out of my mouth, because she's guilty of all this. She allows what she's asking these people to do today. She allowed it to say that part of the territory could be secededed, she allowed individual politicians to say sovereign is, unique, without this entity, without that. If he truly thinks well of this people and of this misery and poverty, then he should say, gentlemen, neither of you can say it as the smallest politician can't say it. We're aware that's been punished. And what leads me as a man to have people sit in the OHR today who have continued the continuity of their predecessors, who have signed some acts with some politicians in which they have taken over what BiH will look like, except that we don't know it. I think it's time to get into all this. The easiest thing to say is we won't. Are we gonna let the kids handle this? They'll be able to handle the least of it, and the biggest obligation is ours to do it. My proposal and the party proposal that I come from is that Bosnia, compared to 2001, means before the war begins, should be so, since there have been victims, since people respond on various grounds, which in The Hague, which, in Sarajevo, will last for a number of years, so arranged that there are no winners and defeated and to be guaranteed for all three peoples. Reform laws for this country will then be able to be resolved in a congregation. In this way as it is propagated and dusted in the eyes of the people, we will solve it, the Constitution will be changed by amendments – we will never end up with reform laws, we will experience the collapse of Europe, and BiH will not be near the door as they say. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26609	Is that, Jozo, in the last second? Replica, Azra Hadžiahmetović. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26610	It's not a replica, it's a correction of the wrong quote and business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26611	I'm sorry, misquote correction and business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26612	Al' no... here, there's only a button for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26613	It's okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26614	First, before the war, there was no 2001 unless you might have thought of some war between 2001 and 2009, so much correction of the wrong allegation. And secondly, you've devoted a good part of the discussion to the guilt of the international community here. We have before us a proposal for a decision on constitutional changes. I think that your qualifications only because it is not on the agenda will not cause replicas, otherwise I ask that we manage the Rules of Procedure and discuss what is on the agenda. The international community is not to blame for what's here. Let us ask ourselves, who in the international community forbids us to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26615	So, Slavko Jovičić in his name and on behalf of Drago Kalabić. Use your time, no drag.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26616	Hadji Jovan Mitrović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26617	And I apologize, Slavko. Mr. Hadži Jovan Mitrović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26618	We know that Yugoslavia existed in 2001, that there were all these peoples across that area, both in Serbia, in Slovenia, and in Croatia, and in BiH, and Macedonia, not 2001. In '91, I apologize, I apologize, yes, it's a false allegation, yes, yes, yes, I apologize, that there was a Yugoslavia where we had the chance to simply live and to part as people. And don't just convince me that we split up because Marko, Huso, and I don't know who the third one, didn't make the deal, and there wasn't a fourth one behind that, that they were trying to find somewhere better to play a dance in someone else's backyard than in their own. At this point, BiH has become something on the principle of Yugoslavia. That's why I'm saying that the Constitution is very important for this BiH, that it's not some experiment in some future global movement that's going to happen, that they didn't want to, with or without us. No one asks us, we know that all the wars that ended 61 ended in the face of great forces. For this reason, the Constitution is very important, in the Constitution to guarantee these things well, to provide security for everyone, and that is the key to all other reforms. And I apologize for this, that was the lab in 2001, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26619	The smallest problem is years. I, Mr. Jovičić, hope you got the consent of the club president to erase it from the reported, but here's the discussion and you got his time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26620	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You did a good assessment, I just turned it off, because I was afraid it wouldn't come, so it'll take my time. So last session I prayed when we had these topics, and this is one of the most serious, why the representatives, the club chiefs, didn't agree on a unique platform of proposals, but this is now only one party's proposal, and it's been said about Prud, about three leaders. Well, even if everything was defined there that we have to vote on today as some of the laws of the High Representative come to us so we can't change a word, not even a point, what would we get if we didn't have in this BiH Party agreement? __________? [[microphone is not enabled]] That's right, of course. What would we get if we didn't have opposition? What would we get if we didn't have HDZ and one and the other, and hopefully they'd unite, so here's what I'm gonna talk about once? What would we get if we didn't have 20, so now we're uniting together, of course we're uniting together, what would we get if we didn't have 29 MPs to declare this tomorrow, whatever it is? So, Madam Chairman, please allow me and I will not ask you to move Mr. Prodanović away from being allowed, because it is more order.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26622	Mr. Prodanović, please allow Ambassador Jovičić to speak uninterruptedly.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26623	Thank you very much. It would be rude for me to turn around and call him back for the second, third time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26624	Don't turn to him, I'll get... 62
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26625	Thank you very much for your help, but I forgot to say that I will not help you, but I will get away, not personally as chairman, but as Parliament. Because there's plenty of flossules to help, and we all get away. Here, let me be clear, I'm straight. So this is the most serious topic. No one should be in the illusion that there will be a new constitution. That the US Congress resolution, the European Parliament, and every day such resolutions will have countless resolutions, will address the issue of BiH's internal constitutional structure. They won't, and I don't support a poll, and we don't need any polls when we know, I don't know the percentage, but I'll say, I won't make a mistake -- a huge number of Srbin want an independent RS, a huge number of Bošnjak want a unitary BiH, without the RS. I don't speak for the Hrvat, because I must say, they're no good for each other. They don't want the RS, and they don't want BiH like this. What do we do now in the Bermuda Triangle? So now... mathematics: hypotension over cadets in the Bermuda Triangle, neither there nor here. There's no Pitagora. So, I beg you and always plead here and ask to be honest with each other. This idea of a gentleman, not Izetbegović, but the SDA Club – why you did not agree with other clubs, with Mr Živković, with Mrs Hadžiahmetović, Mr Belkić, and not to list the other representatives. And there if you had agreed at least a little bit on what it should look like, whether it will be run by the Constitutional Commission or we will set up a new commission, representatives of all parties, and then we will go out. Anyway, I get the feeling that there's someone racing here every time they come up with a new idea, and he knows in the beginning that he's not going to get support, but it's important to go out with the initiative, with the idea, with the bill, with the marking of this and that, and later on, when someone challenges it, they're against BiH. We are not, people, against BiH, every time I warn you, but we are in a way that is meant to be done, so this is not an ad hoc job. Well today, many have said: We make this for the future of our children, not that they make it for us, for no one can do it for us, it has passed. So, if I don't go any further, please, and your colleagues from the SDA party, don't be disappointed that this won't be accepted, but here's the space to agree with Mr. Živković and release more Prud. Prud is gone. Everything's on us now. I would never accept it first if there was no Party for BiH because they would waste their jobs for free, waste free time, we can't get support without it. Isn't that right, Professor? Of course. When Remzija Kadrić spoke on behalf of the RS and SNSD, thank you very much, I will now support the Party for BiH. Now, these are party relations, not assaults. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Of course. No, no, not at all. I'll let you suggest, because I'll never be mad at you, but at a colleague who always has a habit I'll be angry with. So, let's finish, let's get this back to how it's possible to solve. Here, gentlemen from the party... SDA, you have no interviewer other than Mr. Živković, Mr. Kalabić. I wish I was one of two instead, but here's no way. You don't have an interviewer here other than Mr. Belkić and Professor Hadžiahmetović, so let's move on, Mr. Lozančić, Mr. Jukić, not to forget, we don't have these from 1990, either. There's Novaković. _________(?) 1990
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26629	Please continue. I've still got Mr. Nik Lozančić reported. Slavko, you didn't see exactly what to suggest, 10%, not 2%, for this investigation committee, we have 10%.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26630	Thank you, Mr. President. 64 I will not promise you that I will help you, nor will I deliver you. I want you to figure it out after I step in which direction my debate was going. I must say, even though I had one concept prepared for debate, I will start from the end of the presentation of the distinguished representative Jovičić. On several occasions, even at the end of the debate, he found that it was a very serious topic and really a change, change, and adoption, beauty, etc. The constitution in every country is a very serious topic. Another question is how serious we are to deal with such serious issues, but let’s each conclude to ourselves how much we are. Are we really ready to deal with serious issues? The intention of the SDA Club, since this is their proposal, here I will say very correctly – since the esteemed colleague Džaferović explained the club's proposal – a dear colleague, thank you for taking over my part of the job, so you offered this. I want to say to me it's very important that nothing has been added to what you wrote, or that anything that my party president has signed as an initiative has been left out. That's enough for me, too. And I must also say that I am not questioning my president's signatures, but I am trying to make sure that before he signs anything with him, I agree on what he could and couldn't sign. And he didn't sign it on behalf of his own personal and personal, but he signed it on behalf of our party, so that what was signed for us is unquestionable, and I think it is ultimately rational. I'll start by asking how they're listed here. Amendments to the BiH Constitution should refer to: the harmonisation of the BiH Constitution with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms with additional protocols. The question of the superstructure should I or shouldn't? I don't want to remind you that we have disputes, that we have complaints from our citizens in front of a court in Strasbourg, that we have requests from our agents, that we come to some sort of settlements so that the court in Strasbourg doesn't find what we all know, and that's the fact that we here with a severe constitution violate the human rights of our citizens. And that was on the Human Rights Committee, whose member I am. I was against any deal. Since it's obviously not enough for us all to know, it means that we consciously constitutionally violate the human rights of our citizens, so let the court in Strasbourg tell us, here's another one in a series of international institutions, here last night was the American Congress. I'm in a commentary because the press asked me how you're commenting, so I said here's the whole world, and it's clear that we need to get into constitutional reform, it's just a question of when we're going to figure it out. Maybe today, maybe not tomorrow, Bog knows. Sometimes someone in this country will realize that constitutional reforms are really necessary for us, regardless of whether the initiative has been signed by three, five, one leader, regardless of whether we ourselves are as individuals, as citizens, as representatives, as representatives of different political parties, aware that this country is really working hard with this condition. I'm going to illustrate that through a few examples. Next question: the jurisdiction of the state of central and local levels of government. What's the problem? The problem is, we lose five hours each session, arguing about who's in charge. Right? Is the state taking the authority of the entity or not? At every session, there's no session where we don't argue about it. Why is that? If we had precisely in the Constitution defined, precisely what exactly are the competences of those midlevels, as we called it, and canton, and what are not, what are stately, we wouldn't have the need to discuss it here. We have only disputed what is rightful. However, since this is very inaccurate, confusing, unclear, it can be interpreted in different ways, then it depends on what kind of political will the dominant defends or contests one or the other approach. 65 So there's a need for us to do ourselves, for the sake of the future, to more precisely define why anyone is in charge. Why does it still matter? Dear colleague Jovičić said: "What responsibility, who will I answer to, why?" If we don't know who's in charge, then there's no responsibility. So we're all going to say that we're not responsible for the difficult social opportunities here, all the levels of government, that we're not responsible for this, that we're not responsible for that, but we're going to ask for powers where it would be possibly something affirmative. And it happens every day, and unlike us in this House, our citizens see very well and it is no wonder that very often, or very rarely, they express themselves with praise about the effects and work of any government institution in BiH. So, not just us, they're not happy with anyone. So, I've never heard of one, not one poll in which one citizen went out and said, "Our authority in the community works well but these others are bad." Our power in the canton works well, but these others are bad. Our authority in the entity is perfect, but these others are bad. I've heard only power doesn't work, power isn't right, power is irrational, power is non-functional. Now, maybe it's not even the government's fault. I often say that in the ambience of what our constitutional ambience is, it is very questionable what power it is, because different authorities have changed so far. Unfortunately, here we have not had any spectacular shifts, regardless of personally, a party who has acted in power at certain times. A more functional institution, one of the following issues that is being run to discuss. In BiH today, we have about 800 deputies, about 150 ministers, about 1,500 municipal councillors and about 150 municipal commissioners. When you add it all up this fast, it's somewhere almost 3,000 of some 2,500-2,700, I don't know either, I'm not adding up now, some of the citizens of this country that the people, the citizens, have chosen to run this country on their behalf from municipality to state. And now you add up, multiply by any number of this number, and you'll see how rational that is. And the effects we have show how functional it is. So this is too expensive. If someone thinks they're not, then I'd like to, once in a while, if someone discusses this, to suggest extending all of these, and to increase the number at least a few times. If we add to all this that we have 14 education ministries in this country, I must say, I'm surprised at our students, I don't know how they'll understand this if they hear it, I'm surprised they seem satisfied with the system of higher education in our country, and they're probably paying one of the most expensive tuitions in the region. I'm not talking about quality. They have over 10, I don't know, I especially don't know exactly how many universities there are in this country. And it all costs normal, it costs money. In order to settle all that we have, we need to introduce such high-level scholarships to students, so that we can meet all the needs of all the teachers and all the teachers who teach at five universities, etc. and everything else, so, but here they are obviously satisfied with that fact even though parents if you would ask each of these students, then you would hear a salvo of mourning that can't even breathe anymore, and each’ would like his child to be educated, to be educated. And I'm surprised and following these days of protesting students in the Republic of Croatia where it's much more orderly than with us, but people aren't satisfied, they want more, they want better, with the right. It's obviously good for us as well. Not to mention, how many health care funds do we have? Here I look at fellow doctors and they know well how and how these health care funds work and they probably know even better how many citizens are users of services and services and of those they are paying for at a satisfactory level and the quality of health services. But it doesn't matter either. It's important that we defend some, I don't know which, interests. That's the most important thing, and all the people will endure it and 66 will probably be much more pleased if we don't change any of this and leave this state behind, so who can stand it. The territorial organization itself is one of the topics, now, that territorial organization each of us interprets in its own way. However, it is a topic for discussion if it is entered into the process. You know, some of you know for sure, maybe some of you don't know, that in BiH, I don't know the exact number, I think we have about 150 municipalities, I think we do, and that's part of this country's territorial organization. We have municipalities that have 200-300 inhabitants, municipalities where 100 people choose the municipal chief and 15 councillors, even sometimes there are almost as many as there are councilmen who choose, and we have municipalities that have over 150 thousand inhabitants and they have the same powers, conditionally, completely identical. Now, you see how that can work and how it works. How rational, how effective, how effective, how effective, etc.? But you don't even have to touch that. Perhaps that is the way it should be done to show how we really care for those whose many levels provide services, who charge fat for providing these services. I am going back to those polls that are often published, in which we can conclude that if the country's citizens, if the polls are objective, are not satisfied with anything. Whose hostages are we? I don't know now either. There were questions like that. We are the hostages of this party or the one, whether we are the hostages of one political party, the other, the fifth, the tenth. Well, we're all hostages and hostages, depending on how we deal with a particular question. So we simply don't allow ourselves, so different reasons, we don't allow ourselves to do to ourselves and those who will be here tomorrow in these benches, so I'd like these benches to be tighter, so there's a much larger number here in these benches, and a much smaller number somewhere in some other benches. That would be some kind of reason. But about that, then, if it comes to that. It's not good that we keep pulling under the carpets unnecessaryly and raising tensions, I don't know, things that don't benefit us. I am convinced that by entering the process of talks, and this, this proposal for a decision is only a ticket to this process and nothing more, by entering into the process of talks on constitutional changes we would take a big step, and by taking a modern, democratic constitution that would satisfy the largest number of citizens of this country, I think we would make a tremendous step and repay ourselves to these generations as well as generations to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26631	You helped me with the contents, but you're a little bit of a quantity. Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26632	Here, let me start by having another replica, and I wanted to get back to you in the end. We simply didn't last realize here in BiH that the BiH Constitution should be changed, nor should we need a variety of mentalists around the world to say that. However, it is obvious that in BiH, in addition to agreeing on the goal that we should also agree on the model to which we will reach that goal, and we always get caught up in it. 67 This decision that came before the U.S.A., just to point out, differs from the decision that came to the House of Peoples. They also differ in the way we need to get to the finish line. It is suggested that constitutional legal committees do so, here it is proposed to do it differently. In this decision, it is also proposed that international experts be taken as someone who should work here, although the leaders have signed that they should be called on in terms of international organisations to work. If we had sat down together and agreed on this decision, the question is whether we would have come to any decision, because the leaders didn't agree on the model that we should be doing it. We are becoming more and more a problem here in BiH about how we will reach the goal, than I am the goal, I am also talking about the EU, NATO, etc. The leaders also signed the undisputed sovereignty of BiH. I... not with any of my gestures, not with my story behind this pay phone - I didn't do it. But what I'm saying is that he is, in my opinion, limited by the presence of the OHR in this country. We have given the sovereignty of the people through our People's MPs to OHR to govern this country, by passing laws, by prohibiting the Constitutional Court from discussing this until it is brought here in Parliament, etc., and we do so daily. And we want full sovereignty of BiH, not to mention the legitimacy which is enormous and unquestionable if we speak from the point of view of BiH's external and international acceptance but you will agree, or you will agree with me that it is both divided and weak if we talk about the internal legitimacy of BiH and where it is necessary to turn and how to build the country's full sovereignty and legitimacy, i.e. internal and complete. People should be asked, because I don't know the answer and I believe that most of you don't know that answer either, but we're not going to ask and we're afraid to say it here behind this pay phone, and I'm not afraid to say it's necessary to ask the people and the legal authorities, we have both the government and the agencies to ask. How can internationally diverse organisations and some independent NGOs conduct surveys here in BiH, then tell us the results through the media whether they want them or they, that the peoples together women are taken, etc., etc., and we cannot ask our citizens and our people in BiH, since there is clearly no democratic potential here. I'll put in my conclusion and wait for some better time to present it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26633	Thank you. Looks like we're bringing an end, I'd call this a public debate on constitutional changes and all the important issues in this country. I've got two things here that we need to clear up. So Azra Alajbegović suggested one conclusion, I hope you have one. Remzija Kadrić has tabled amendments to this decision. He didn't call me a member of the Rules of Procedure, etc. But here, therefore, depending on whether this decision will be adopted if this decision is adopted, this amendment, that is, we will refer these interventions to the text of the decision together with the decision of the Constitutional Commission, and if not, then we will see what we will do with the amendments. So, in order to have a clean situation ahead of the vote on other matters, I ask you to prepare for the vote and vote on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament of Azra Alajbegović. 68 Vote now! You have the conclusion in front of the court, it's mostly going towards a delay in the decision-making process and it's going towards sending all initiatives towards the Constitutional Legal Commission to their completion, attempt at unification, etc. 14 votes "yes", 12 votes "against". Insufficient entity majority. There's no consent. We're going to the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Second round of voting. We don't have 10 votes "against" from the RS. This conclusion passed so that Mr. Kadrić's interventions to the text of this decision go together with this conclusion to the Constitutional Commission, with what remains unclear, in some way, the realization of the conclusion of this House of Representatives on the Joza Križanović initiative that is still under way. Does that mean she's going to the Constitutional Commission, all the activities and what we offered three years ago, a new constitution? Okay, we'll deliver it. All right, let's move on... Momo, don't say you didn't say everything. Let's move on, point 7.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26634	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26635	Everything will be fine, Momo, everything will be fine, democratic. So let's go to point 7. Ad. Seven. Report on implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's law So, the Central Election Commission in accordance with Article 2 point 9. In late April, BiH's electoral law provided us with a report on the implementation of the law under its jurisdiction. The report was discussed by the Constitutional Commission, delivered its opinion on 11 May. So the opinion is positive and the Commission has accepted the report and is proposing to the House, of course, to adopt it. It also proposes that urgent approaches be made to the implementation of recommendations proposed by the Central Election Commission as part of the overall report. Of course, I'm taking the opportunity to welcome the members of the Election Commission, to thank them for their presence and to express my regret that you've been sitting all day, you could have just come in half an hour ago and of course I'm opening up the possibility if you need to have a few... Here, Mr. Suad Arnautović, is he still president – and Mr. Perić is already, well – but he started the job and let him finish. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26637	Dear Chairman, members of the Presidency.../microphone disfellowshipped/..., honourable MPs, I thank you sincerely on behalf of the Central Election Commission on this occasion. We believe it is an honor for us to address this tall home with several notes. We do not want to convince this report, we believe that it is comprehensive, that from the attached documentation you can obtain a picture of complexity in the work of the Central Election Commission and that you can also conduct a constructive discussion about... the proposals for the measures we have proposed in this report. What I would like to emphasise, if you allow, once again, is that the Central Election Commission has six laws in its jurisdiction, so: four state and two lower levels, one federal and one Brcko District law. Especially what we want to stress in implementing this law is that the Central Election Commission is trying to ensure
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26638	May I have your attention, please? SUAD
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26639	: consistent application of six principles, six principles on which her work rests. This is, above all, independence in the work of the Central Election Commission, then impartiality in the assessment of individual documents, i.e. activities, then the Equidistance in relation to all political entities in bh. political arena, then credibility in its work and, ultimately, transparency. We believe that we have all these five, whether, as far as there are principles, we have fulfilled them in the past period and have consistently followed them. What we want to point out and what is not in the proposal, in the recommendations, which is not broadly explained, if you please, so on this side of 110 in these recommendations, let's say the reasons why we consider why we proposed these recommendations, as soon as possible. First recommendation on election law? There are at least six reasons, so six, so to speak, huge reasons for the adoption of amendments and additions to the Electoral Law. The first reason that was heard today in the discussion is the expected changes to the BiH Constitution, even in the part concerning the harmonisation of the Constitution with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. So, especially with regard to the election of members of the BiH presidency and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Another important reason is that all, to put it this way, the principles on which the electoral legislation rests must be agreed, must have, to put it this way, a gender of sensitivity, so they must be written in native languages. Third, we believe that it is necessary to finally approach the review of election units, which is also a legal obligation for these Parliamentary Assemblys, as well as parliaments at entity level, which has never been implemented since the law was passed in 2001. 70 The fourth reason, we believe that the time has come to allow passive registration for our diaspora, i.e. for citizens living outside BiH, who are temporarily abroad or in refugee status, or temporarily. So,... with them, as you know, now active registration, they must actively communicate with the Central Election Commission and we believe that the time has come to approach that population in the way it is... in terms of passive registration of voters in the country. The next reason is to reconsider how members of the election committees are elected. And lastly, the sixth big reason is to ensure the selection of members of national minorities and at higher levels than municipal councils, or congregations. With regard to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, we would ask this high home for an already established draft law on amendments and amendments to the law which did not receive the required majority here and was not adopted last year to return to parliamentary procedure and to try to pass. So, for those things that can, I say, be achieved by the majority in this House, because in this way it is greatly facilitated the work of the Central Election Commission to implement this law. There is another important reason, and this is a new judicial pax, i.e., to say the diametric opposite of the position of the Central Election Commission and the Court of BiH on a very important issue, as regards the definition of so-called. projects in the financing of political parties. We believe that this is a very important and large issue that must be regulated before the general elections, the next general elections in 2010. If there's a need, we can explain more widely what it's all about. Also, this law should in some way be considered in the light of our proposal either to fix it like this or to pass a special law on political organisation in BiH in which a chapter of the law would be a chapter that would regulate the financing of political parties. In terms of the Law on Conflict of Interest, you know that an Interresor Working Group is formed which is tasked with completing its work by 1. Six. The Interresor Working Group is headed by Ambassador Novaković. Here, we have information that this work is almost over or that it is almost done but what is most important for us is that two things are done: to avoid the inequality of legal consequences for the elected official, on the one hand, and for the holders of executive duties and their advisers, on the other hand. You know that now the Central Election Commission, under the Election Law and the Law of Conflict of Interest, is competent to suspend the mandate of the persons elected by officials at all levels, for which legal conditions are acquired, while this is not for executive holders, so ministers, deputy ministers and advisers. Secondly, to put it this way, the need to bring this law into line is also contained in the Opinion on the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of the Venice Commission, number 466/08 of June last year, and, if you please, I will only quote two or three things from that opinion. First, the opinion that entities should ensure that their laws on conflict of interest are consistent and reflect the state law on conflict of interest. Secondly, the Venice Commission suggests it would be good to allow decisions taken at entity level to be brought to the Central Election Commission. 71 Thirdly, if it is not such a solution or whatever the solution is, whether it is, that it must certainly be ensured that, by appeal, any authority implementing it is resolved by the Court of BiH. I must inform you, or remind you, that these recommendations are not secured under the current positive legislation. We have different jurisdictions first, and secondly we have different essential solutions in the Law on conflict of interest in the RS and these other laws, so Brcko District, Federation and state law. The next important thing is tied up... and that we want to point out, is, these are recommendations no. Four, five, and six. Recommendation 4 concerns, above all, the handling of competent state and entity ministries in the final alignment of data on displaced persons. I have to tell you, so in these elections in 2008, we didn't have a clear list of displaced persons who had the right to vote. And indeed, finally, the time has come for us to.../microphone off/... need to be handled by the competent state authorities, above all, by municipal authorities, and by the Federation of some cantonals in relation to other administrative actions, such as the alignment of the street, the numbering of home numbers, etc. ahead of the upcoming general election. I'll remind you there's a lot of streets that don't have names at all, they don't have names and there's a lot of home numbers with that so-called. tags bb, which actually creates one confusion in the creation of the Central Election List. Recommendation 5 concerns BiH's single electoral system. I must warn you that all expert opinions in the field of IT, as well as our practice, indicate that without a single information electoral system, I will not say that it will be impossible, but it will be very, very difficult to organise general elections or any subsequent elections in BiH. Indeed, one and a recommendation of this high home came to access the realization of this project. And the last, if I may, recommendation and request is, in fact, the need to finally resolve the issue of accommodation for this important state institution. I must remind you that we have been in existence since the formation of a permanent electoral commission, tenants in a private-owned building in Sarajevo, that we are paying an extremely large rent monthly and from now on from the paid rent could be built very beautiful and functional building owned by the state. That's it. I really thank you for your opportunity to address this high house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26640	And I thank Mr. Arnautović for the explanation I made of the recommendations. We're going to a debate. Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26641	I thank you, Chairman. 72 I would like to make a very brief contribution to the debate on this item of the agenda and at the beginning to say that the document that we have received is indeed a comprehensive document from which you can see everything that the Election Commission has done in the last year and from its jurisdiction and from the data that the chairman has provided here. I would certainly like to commend the fact that we, here, half a year ago are discussing a report for last year and that we have established this system that we have no delays in these documents. What I want to stay on for a very short time is a synthesis of the conclusions and recommendations that the president has made here. They show that the problems and measures that should be taken are clearly recorded in order to solve these problems so that the Election Commission can properly lead this process and get even better results. What I want to do is I want the special accent to be related to the fact that it has not been resolved on an up-to-date basis, meaning updated data that it is not about persons who have the status of displaced persons, the non-registration of a number of voters outside the country due to invalid beliefs about citizenship, etc. It is also stated here in the synthesis of the final examinations that certain competent institutions have failed to fulfil their obligations under the law. I wish this text had made it clear which institutions failed to comply with their obligations so that they could point out and ask these institutions to comply with their obligations. Also, the next thing that I think is very important is the finding that there is no, or outdated information technology and there is... a high risk of database security and high-level state... of information... due to inadequate conditions. This is a fact that must certainly be well highlighted here, because the basic data and what makes the country democratic, above all, is a democratic possibility to conduct election processes. And if there is a high degree of risk that these data can be misused, or that they can be accurate or incorrect, or that the system may, in some ways, be compromised, it warns us all that we need to take action and measures to remove it. What I would like from the recommendations here that is seen is that these first three recommendations concerning the law, meaning the Council of Ministers and concerns the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH – the amendment of the Election Law, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and the Law on Conflict of Interest – are also about us and related to this opinion that we received from the Constitutional Commission for which... I would like it to be a little more concrete, because this position (2) which says that 'the Commission proposes to the House of Representatives to get into the realisation of the recommendations from this report as soon as possible'. Regarding the particularisation, I would also suggest certain types of conclusions, three conclusions that would be... means that 'we as a House of Representatives accept the recommendations set out in the report on the implementation of the law from the jurisdiction of the Central Election Commission' (it is the same as the first of the Constitutional Legal Commission). The second conclusion would go more specifically: 'To be in charge of the Council of Ministers to analyse the recommendations, and to take the necessary activities out of its jurisdiction within 90 days'. 73 And the third conclusion is: 'To be in charge of the Central Election Commission and the Council of Ministers to deliver information on the implementation of recommendations to the Parliamentary House within 120 days.' In this way these recommendations would make sense and they would get a closed one cycle which could also follow the implementation of the recommendations, especially that these recommendations and their implementation should be done by the end of 2009, because 2010 is an election year and it is not good to touch anything in the election year. In that sense, I propose these three conclusions and ask Parliament to support them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26642	I thank the esteemed representative, Nanić. The following has been reported by distinguished envoy Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26643	Thank you. I'll take a few sentences. As for the report on the implementation of the law under the responsibility of the Central Election Commission, there is nothing else to say but that this report as well as all other reports fill out the form. There is one problem here that we have one of the few committees that is in the capacity of the court, and the reason is that we have one law that has been imposed by the High Representative and never has this Parliament found fit to comply with the bar of the existing constitution, which we were just saying that we should adopt a new constitution. The reason goes on, I think the Central Commission has a number of mistakes. There are mistakes when elections are announced – whether at a local, republican, state level – when political parties deliver the list, it is obliged to determine who is fit to go to elections and who is not. And in any case, three or four years later, he came up with some idea that someone wasn't like him. If anyone should be guilty of work or trouble, then it is he who performs that function. I'm saying this for one reason, because I said last time, I asked one parliamentary question, it's about me, and I don't care how it ends, but it'll show me what kind of judiciary we have. I'm personally convinced I'm right. After three years of coming up with the idea that some people say they're in conflict of interest, so they have to ask themselves what they were doing until that moment, not to say they're contradictory. I'm one of the people who's been in Parliament for quite a long time, which at the entity level, which at the local level, so here I am now at the state level and, aware of this law that has been imposed by the High Representative, I have strictly made sure I don't get into that position. The truth is, I own a private company. And aware of that law, here I repeat it before them, and delivered documents that on December 31st I had transferred all the powers at my disposal, to simply manage this company, all that was sought, a book of executives through which all the decisions had been made, that I would eventually answer and say, normally, in accordance with this law that is not in accordance with the Constitution, it is certain that they suspect that I am fit to be chosen, and I am immediately bound to have the right to choose. Normally, if I'm not fit to be chosen tomorrow, I'm as unsuitable as I am to be chosen, unsuitable will choose unsuitable. I think 74 that they made a mistake, get on TV that day, given our people, the way they are, doesn't look much, doesn't listen much, doesn't think about what it is, to say that I, I don't know, was in conflict of interest and so did some damage of a million and something, these are the jobs that the company got in the tenders, where it turns out that I stole that money. Here I told this Parliament that I would ask the minister of justice to answer the question: when, as a citizen under the BiH Constitution, I cannot choose, I will ask the Constitutional Court this question, and in parallel I will press charges against the Central Election Commission, she made a statement to the BHTV who gave me the answer, which I am glad, at the same time on the note, Serbian television is not yet, I hope to give, and to launch a complaint about the damage they have done to me during that period. Besides what they've got here, and they're saying that I've given you powers without restrictions on your face, that and that, they're judging me, please. This isn't radio or Informbiro. So I say no, it's not to me whether I'm going to be an MP or not, but it's because of the injustice that the body, the organ chosen by this Parliament, did not choose it professionally, it was chosen by a political line, by some lawyers, by some political persons, in the end, by some who worked in committees before the war, etc. etc. For that reason, the information is okay, but behind the information is hiding a lot. It is my opinion that this law should be brought into line with the Constitution as it is tomorrow with that constitution as it is. And immunity, if anyone can take away from anyone, then they can take away this parliament. This is just one example of what this is all about. I think there's a series of examples and people who don't even have the strength and can't go out and deal with these things. I hope with this I will endure to the end, at the very least, to show whether there is a judiciary, whether there are lawyers to say whether this is okay or not. But here, I propose to Parliament that in the next period, and to that commission that does so, to comply with the Constitution of BiH until the moment until the Constitution changes to the extent that this people and this Parliament want, and at the same time, if someone committed a crime, there is a law, there is a lawsuit. If someone committed a bribe, there's a way to punish and punish. He can't tell an individual that he's estimated to have punished someone with 10,000 marks, he's estimated that it's not much for him, it is a lot for me. I'm going to prove to them that in four years I've been able to do a lot more for my company than by sticking to this and what I wrote here. And what I could do, I would ask them for compensation. I've been in Banja Luka since the government was elected, which means I have absolutely no connection. Here in this House in this government... Deputy Minister I never left so no one could say I've come to ask the company if there's anything and a phone to call. This is a simple crime, an injustice they've committed, and I'm going to ask the authorities to move further simply my own justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26644	Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26645	Thank you, Chairman. First, I'll remind you again what's on our agenda. It's not personal relationships, problems, etc. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26646	It was my duty, I was late. AZRA
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26647	Either one of us. A colleague just brought up his case, but if that's how we're all gonna start talking about individual cases, then we're not gonna focus on what's on the agenda. Here, let me get back to the agenda. We have the first time in eight years, as far as I know, seven or eight years, the law enforcement report. So let's just stop at the fact that it's the first time here, not a report on the work of the Central Election Commission or any other body, but this report on the implementation of laws that are within the jurisdiction of one body that this Parliamentary Assembly has appointed and so much praise. And it would be good for this to go to practice and other institutions of the state, because if anything better can show maybe the poorly defined solutions in certain laws is the way they are implemented or the misunderstanding in the implementation of a law, and this is what the colleague was just talking about when it comes to his personal case. So, so much to praise for one new one, to say, perhaps a course, not only of the Central Election Commission, it is hoped to be with other state institutions, including the Council of Ministers, or individual ministries,... in whose jurisdiction is the implementation of some law. I must mention that methodologically and analytically, I have not seen better material here in Parliament for a long time, whether its contents are liked or not, whether something that is written there in certain provisions of a particular law, but methodologically and how with the wealth of contributions the analytically supported what is here in this report really deserves praise. I have to say, maybe this would be actually normal, this is a state of normal, this shouldn't be praised, we should be shy, maybe, what wasn't done like this. So much, perhaps one more observation and criticism... and perhaps all of us, ultimately, are taught to maybe change our practice when we get a report on the work of the state bodies that it's better to get a report on the implementation of laws that are within the jurisdiction of these state bodies. I would also like to mention in particular the recommendations, i.e. in this, whether, in this methodological approach and the set of recommendations given in this report, which, in part, refer to exactly what I have made such assessments about this report, which, among other things, have resulted in doubts about the implementation of certain laws and, of course, the need to amend certain provisions, i.e. the improvement of some legal solutions. And here I will focus on a set of these recommendations that are given here in individual segments of the law that are within the responsibility of the Central Election Commission on Recommendations No. 8 and just ask one question. Recommendation number 2 where it says it is "needs to harmonise the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions with other laws", it is not controversial, 'at the state and entity level'. Does this mean that the state law on conflict of interest in BiH authorities should be aligned with some entity laws? Here's an opportunity to mention, since fellow Jovičić is currently absent, I'm sorry, when we mention the entity, he always thinks only of the RS, I think of both entities. Thank you. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26648	Replica, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26649	I'd only like one comment from an esteemed colleague who said this was about an individual case. Be careful, the application of this law is the constitution of applying to a set of individual cases. Look, these are all individual cases here. But this shows, this case, and a number of other cases there are linked to one measure that is absolutely contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. So, banning someone from running, means especially for some of the acts that are prescribed by the law that is imposed there – is contrary to that convention. After all, I'm probably not the Constitutional Court judge, I'm not a lawyer, I have no idea, but I suppose the opposite is the Constitution of BiH which clearly defined in which cases someone is forbidden to be elected and elected. So I wouldn't agree that this... this is an individual case but a case that speaks of one practice. And by the time I got back, as far as this Interresor Working Group is concerned, we're at the end of the job, and this was, in any case, the subject of our consideration, a very serious consideration. There are certain solutions there that will eliminate these doubts and whether or not it is a violation of the European Convention. In any case, some solutions will be offered, of course, and the Council of Ministers and Parliament will decide whether they are acceptable or not. But you see, while I'm talking about it, and I'm going to end this replica here, the Election Commission, let's say in one sentence, has actually shown a kind of relationship that I don't think is necessary. Let's say she says, "In 2009, the Central Election Commission will continue to check the elected officials." Look, this sentence shows a relationship to that question. I don't think the Election Commission should check the officials, but check the law. So... if she wrote a sentence here that she would continue to check the application of the Law of Conflict of Interest, then that would make sense, but be careful, not to check the officials. And the law, of course, knows who the law applies to. What I'm saying is that this actually shows the relationship of the Electoral Commission. I personally think that the Election Commission could interpret and otherwise that member they're talking about, there's no authentic interpretation of the Constitutional Commission, I guess, because the law was imposed or I don't know why, but I think that member could have been interpreted differently and that for some cases where individual cases are mentioned here, we have a situation that people are drastically, I won't say, punished, but if you forbid someone from running and voting, then their human rights are drastically violated. But of course, it'll probably be the courts, I don't really want to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26650	It was a comment from Momčilo Novaković. Azra Hadžiahmetović. Is it the same remark or the replica? 77
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26651	Of course, a commentary on the discussion and commentary, I apologize, replica. You see, what I wanted to draw attention to is that for the first time we have a law enforcement report that, among other things, might indicate the need to change or complete certain legal solutions. Because if we had that, I don't mean just, here, for the first time we have these laws, but I generally speak for any law that we have reports like this, among other things, all individual cases would be within the framework of legal solutions. Therefore, no one would be left to the imagination that, personally, someone's personal assessment would be damaged. So I only mention this because when we have good laws and if we need to change the existing or still take a step forward, then everyone in these legal decisions will find themselves, not in the grades or possibly in the decisions of someone who interprets one or another law. So much, Mr. Novaković, I said that the case that our colleague was talking about earlier may have been a case that he personally experienced as someone's assessment of law enforcement, which perhaps in such reports of law enforcement and recommendations there would be no burning to perhaps pay attention to the very legal solutions that this Parliamentary Assembly has adopted, so, if we need to change them, to change them; if we need to work them out, to work them out. So that no individual case would be considered damaged due to an alleged assessment or wrong decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26652	Eh, we're going back to the list of registered debaters. I'm moving Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26653	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, above all, I must say that I am pleased to have received a report from the Electoral Commission in this form for the first time. Whether it will satisfy, it will not satisfy certain things, but in principle allow me to make a few remarks that are very important. You know that this parliament, before our colleague was elected, gave consent, or took an oath from a man who received from the Election Commission... that he was elected, that he was on the list next. So then we waited for two sessions to come back from that same commission letter saying that this colleague of ours we chose, whom we applauded, was unwanted, so a new colleague came, which in other words means what Mr. Novaković was now saying. I think that... The electoral commission must work to check the candidates before the candidates can even get on the list, not to introduce the result now, measures, but simply to mean that there is such a system of control that people who are elected can no longer call themselves in conflict of interest. So that's what we have to say: I thank the commission for maybe introducing order in these things, and I support it, but at this point I want to stress that this conclusion that it will continue with the check is absurd which I still think only has a year to work on checks and then we'll finish this job. 78 The other thing, which was brought here by the president of the Electoral Commission. He said the commission worked on some principles of impartiality, then the second principle is political equidistance and the third thing he said were judicial decisions, i.e. how to apply judicial decisions. We of the SDP believe that this commission..., especially during and after the elections, we felt on our skin – primarily not impartial. Second, that he doesn't have that political evasiveness, but the opposite. And third, that we are particularly concerned about the Commission's relationship with the court's decisions. I'll point out the reason. The SDP was proposed by this commission for a fine of 550,000 marks. We have complained to the Court of Appeal that has taken the decision to repeal, that is, return to the Commission which punishes us again with the same amount, in order to finally, for the third time, get the decision of the Court of Justice of BiH in which their decision is abolished. I just wish in this report we had that view of the Court. And the matter of court practice, let it be resolved in a further process, I would say, to supplement these electoral laws. For this reason, I say, we in the SDP will not accept this report, which does not mean that this same report cannot be accepted by this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26654	Well, of course, no one misses the opportunity of their own experience to present. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26655	I thank you, Mr. President. This is one of the, I would say, essential topics for this Parliament: a report on the implementation of the law in the jurisdiction of the Central Election Commission, and I can join those who see great progress in the methodology of this report and should certainly welcome it. The ambition to systematically address these legal issues concerning the entire electoral process and these other issues, such as the Law on conflict of interest and some other issues, is read. But within this form and methodology is, of course, a series of important issues that deserve and Parliament's assessment that the laws that this Parliament adopts or can change tomorrow, or are here and imposed – are set up according to these laws. And within that, it is certainly a legitimate question that Mr. Jovan Hadži Mitrović has asked. I say it's a legitimate question. And, basically, I don't think that such decisions by the Central Election Commission should be rushed. These are directly elected people in the function of lawmaking and any decision that can leave room for a different interpretation of this character according to the highest legislative body deserves to be studio... Here, that's my comment, nothing more. And I'm not going to say any other examples that I know of and the way they're opened and how they open up to the highest elected officials. Is this now the policy of the equivalence Mr Bešlagić spoke of or the policy of some other priorities? We leave this for debate, but there are certainly issues that we all here must take care of to preserve the dignity of Parliament, the Election Commission and BiH institutions. Believe me, my intention was just to focus us all on it together. 79 Law of Conflict of Interest? As parliamentarians on various occasions, either as members of certain study groups who called on the parliaments of friendly countries in the countries with the greatest tradition of Europe, we have had the opportunity to see that this is one of the most restrictive laws and I don't know if there are any examples in the EU at all. And instead of all of us focusing together so we don't keep being objects and experimenting here, here, if we're supposed to be for a while, this is the 21st century, and I don't think we should be. If it is normal for a German representative in Bundestag to be prime minister of the province's government, minister and... other things, does that mean that man is making moves at a higher level and quality and that this information can serve him to do good in more places. We are going here to deal with people who have possibly won the budget of 10 or 20 thousand marks for some society culturally. Let's think about these things a little bit. And this isn't a criticism... this is for all of us. I call this report an inspirational, important, methodologically well-placed and open that some things in electoral legislation, the Law of Conflict of Interest, should be changed urgently together. No, I'm just going to mention two questions here without the intention of opening any courts about them today. One question is voter registration. Wait a minute, sorry, I'm going to set this example here which is very important – because it has caused it, let me not comment on all the interpretations – what it meant to deny the rights for 4000, the rights of registration for 4.372 people who did not meet the prescribed conditions according to this report. It is a registered form by the Association of Croatian Phoenix. And I'm going to remind you of that story now. And I can now responsibly say that a different interpretation and approach to approval or disapproval directly influenced the results of the BiH elections, with strategic consequences, not with local consequences. Says here they weren't included in the central polling list, but they were on the 1991 census. For me, it's such important things and data that should have referred to a much more flexible approach for all of us on this issue. And another question that I believe has marked these local elections and their implementation. It's a matter of choice security. Ladies and gentlemen, in this report, I haven't found a word of what sparrows on the branch sing: how these elections were won and how many votes were bought in this country for local elections. And if members of the Electoral Commission don't feel one word to indicate any problems, I'm worried. Personally, I'm concerned about this democracy in this country. And here in this House there was a story opening from session to session that it was even legal to legalize dating by 100 km. And you know what people say out there when you come: if they knew one voice was bought in Germany, the whole election would be annulled. So here I was going to say that we have a lot of work to do, nothing more, and this report points to it. With all the congratulations and praises for everything the members of the Election Commission do, I know they have a complex task, that it's a huge job, that in transition we've managed to take it over from international officials, that it's managed to make quality infrastructure, but I think now some of these issues deserve to be on the agenda both in this Parliament and in the joint partnership, where the place is, and that's law enforcement, and that's the law changes. I think we've got a lot of work to do here. Thank you very much. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26656	Thank you. The next for discussion is Ambassador Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26657	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'd like to join my colleagues who said that this report is well methodologically structured with a lot of data, well organized, and I'd like to stop there with the chambers of this report. I would also like to say that, before I say something concrete, some concrete remarks on this report, I would like to say that the SDP will always support the work of BiH institutions and will advocate the creation of preconditions for their better work and I will not forget to stress that we are particularly in favour of part of the recommendations relating to the insurance of these conditions. Especially, here, when it comes to accommodation, i.e. space for the Central Election Commission's work. A good part of what I wanted to say was already said by my colleague Bešlagić. In fact, we cannot, at least from this report, see that there was this political equidistance of the Electoral Commission over political parties. The example Mr. Bešlagić set was one drastic example by the Central Election Commission in one, to say, a harsh attack on the SDP. It took three court hearings to get a court dispute. The question arises, and this report does not have, you know, whether the Central Election Commission has been and how many times in court and for which cases and how they have been completed. And that's the cost, you know, it has to be paid, the costs of some court, is it? Secondly, I think we can have a healthy climate and help the Electoral Commission and Parliament and all of us if we speak openly. Look, here the entire Parliament has been brought into one position, an awkward position, to say, by installing, or by introducing a certified representative whose mandate in Parliament because of the failure, according to our assessment, then Parliament or at least no other opinion was given that it came about because of someone else's failure, and that... it lasted a month and a few days, so it could now be questioned from a formal and legal point of view by those laws and decisions that this Parliament was making at the time, because, according to the assessment, it was given that mandate, and it should not have been obtained, here is what I say. So, what was I gonna say? We can't have a relationship to reports that's uncritical. This criticism should not be malicious, but rather heal the entire climate and point to the rights of possible solutions. I resent this report whichever time it takes, whenever there's a specific situation to be something concrete and to say what the difficulties are, what the problems are, etc., then it just went over it. And here, because of this relationship with SDP, as counterpart Selim Bešlagić said, we will have a certain reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26658	Denis Bećirović. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26659	Dear Chairman, I will not repeat what my predecessors have said, except that I want to highlight the fact that it is very important that we train the Electoral Commission that it can perform its function as prescribed by law. It is clear that the Election Commission in every democratic state, and thus it should also be in BiH, should be impartial and independent. The question arises whether the BiH Election Commission has done so. I'm afraid there are a lot of reasons that say that the BiH Election Commission is not depolitical. It is difficult to talk about the impartiality and independence of the Election Commission, when we know very well – we do not have to talk now, if we should and should – that certain members of the Election Commission were prominent members of individual political parties. So how do we trust people in the Electoral Commission when that's the situation? As a very important request, therefore, BiH also raises the question of how to depoliticalise the Election Commission and that there are indeed people who are impartial, independent and who will objectively see the situation in BiH. Unfortunately, all that was happening just confirms that it was. And I'm afraid this is too serious a question to just go over it. It is obvious that a good part of the opposition parties' MPs, but I see here parties that are not in opposition, will have to find ways to try to convince and present certain facts, not only here in Parliament, but also the Council of Europe, and the High Representative, and the ambassadors who have been accredited to BiH, because certain situations, which I would not repeat, which, as we have heard today, highlighted in the debate, are not only from opposition deputies but also from the position of saying that the BiH Election Commission is not in the function in which it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26660	Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26661	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the Constitutional Commission has well analysed this report and offered a proposal for conclusions or recommendations as described in our report. We took care of what the Election Commission is, which is its position in the Bosnian Herzegovina society and sought to preserve as much as possible the autonomous position of the Central Election Commission by proposing its conclusions. And that's why I don't think it's good in this election commission report, in the work of the Election Commission, to involve any other institution, especially the executive authorities, because the Election Commission must be completely autonomous, fully independent and, of course, responsible to the citizens of this country for the work it does. And if there is to be, and there must be, some connection between the Election Commission... some institutional link and the obligation of the Election Commission to an institution, then it is the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the whole concept of the positioning of the Central Election Commission in our legal system is thus set up. That's why the Constitutional Commission proposal is the way it is. And that's what I needed to say about our report. We've had a chance to hear different views on the work of the Central Election Commission here, but let's not forget that we're the ones who edit game rules that apply in the CEC. Parliament is 82 to respond to changes in laws, demands or, I don't know, conclusions, decisions, if it notices that some things in the system aren't set right. And I don't think it's right for us, who are in charge of doing that part of the job, to be part of the responsibility because of the vagueness of certain norms or the non-regulatory of certain issues in the laws to be transferred to the back of the CEC. I think that would be the path that would lead to the destruction of the CEC, because the Central Election Commission is the body that we need to help build it, and that body is still in construction. It takes dozens of years for an institution of such character to be installed and positioned properly in a single country's system, including with us in BiH. That is why I appreciate that this report has been offered, with all the problems the CEC faces, I myself have not personally been satisfied with some decisions, but I have kept quiet. The Central Election Commission is the Central Election Commission, its mandate, its responsibility, but because of this special attention, we as Parliament need to consider the recommendations they have given us, and they state the difficulties they face as an institution and a proposal for what we should do to make them even more successful, so that the whole system is set up and even more successful. I believe that our College – therefore, it is the only body that can do so – after this debate today, a good reading of the CEC recommendations and I think it will be necessary to form one or several inter-resor working groups in front of Parliament, which will be managed by Parliament, because the process must be managed by Parliament rather than by the executive authority, and then to engage in the work on amendments and additions to the Election Law. An Interresor Working Group is working on the Law on Conflict of Interest and let's see what's wrong with the Law on the financing of political parties. We made a draft of that law, the Interresor Working Group, he fell here in Parliament, and he got support there on that Interresor Working Group. What about the Immunity Act? So these are all laws that are in one way or another related to the work of the CEC. We are slowly giving in when it comes to conflict of interest here in BiH, so the Law on conflict of interest. We've introduced past changes of two degrees. The election committee's decisions now: they are neither rightful nor final. The second degree is the BiH Court and its decisions are final and binding. And, what I could say today, possibly, as an objection to this report and to the presentation, and advice, in fact, perhaps more advice, to the CEC: do not ever put yourself in a position to comment on the decisions of the Court of Justice of BiH. You have to execute them as well as I and each of us here, and you have the right to point out the problem. Because, really, we do have a problem. We solved it by the Law on the financing of political parties. Indeed, the problem is whether or not the contribution is given, e.g. When it comes to the Law on the financing of political parties, some political party, for some project, considers it to be a financing of the political party or a contractual relationship. The issue has so far been resolved by the BiH Court in a way that it has resolved and puts the point so far, until the law is passed and there are no comments, because only then makes it difficult for itself and makes the position difficult for the whole body. That's why I think we should take over, support this report, and we should take the initiative. And whatever solutions we adopt here, they will, of course, respect them. Here, I have information from this Interresor Working Group that now works this Law on conflict of interest, I have information that these things are even more liberalized than those solutions. It will come here to Parliament and we will see, we will facilitate the work of the CEC. The whole courts are formed to be applied, for example. Criminal law or the Code of Criminal Procedure. Doctoral dissertation is written, it's all science. We have an organ that we have freed from foreigners, or maybe it's a better term to say the body from which foreigners have been disfellowshipped for a few years, which 83 functions exclusively with domestic forces, and then it's in a position to apply a law that basically involves conducting procedures and making decisions, something similar to in court proceedings, and we are now asking them to be all like that in institutions that have a few decades long tradition, or hundreds of years long tradition in that area. And, in that context, I suggest that we have a relationship with the CEC, they must certainly be completely depolitical, they must certainly be totally objective and impartial, and... it's up to them to tell us where the feller is in the system, and it's up to us to consider that and to remove that feller in the system. And no one else can do it in this area. So, executive power, please, don't involve her in this, they can only be to us as experts here to help. This is what we should do here in Parliament, and I therefore advise you, a recommendation, a second recommendation from the Constitutional Commission proposal, is actually a recommendation for you to come up with a body, which is a commission, and then perhaps from the next session, we start to realize it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26662	Thank you. Let me remind you that we have 11 more points on the agenda. As for the recommendations, of course we read them. Velimir Jukić. So, another 11 points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26663	I could also join the assessment that the Election Commission made a good report in terms of methodology and its structure, including the coverage of all important topics from their work and work in the past year. The role and importance of the Election Commission in each country is very important and important, in our particular importance because it has very great powers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26664	Mr. Jukić, just one second. Let's make a deal. If you're tired and we can't work, we can continue tomorrow morning at 9:00, please. Break five minutes. Consult clubs if we're going to work or not. There's 18 of us in the O.R. now. Break five minutes. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. Let's move on. Sadik Bahtić. Please don't go out. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26666	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26667	Here you go, Jukić, of course not, as always. Go ahead, but we still have 11 points on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26668	So, the importance of the Election Commission is very high in our election process, because it has great powers and responsibilities for the course of the election process, its regularity, from voter registration, election campaign monitoring to the elections themselves, i.e. confirming election results, of course, and later checking all candidates after they have been elected. And I wouldn't ask the question about the formulation. So, first of all, I think that's what was meant by the law on conflict of interest. But what concerns me is the fact that in our elections, in our election process, certain phenomena happen that I think need us all together, and these are significant failures to register voters. At the time before the autumn local elections here, we had one debate, we pointed to certain problems and difficulties, and because of the shortness of time, there was nothing that could be done to make one great injustice to one large number of our citizens correct, in order to get the right to
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26669	Come on, please don't go out, we'll take another break, I'll interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26670	implement your constitutional and legal obligation, i.e. go to the election. I think that there have been major failures, a big mistake, especially since there have been some people, including many who are currently or at this time, not living in BiH lately. I am convinced that they are allowed, at least a large number, most of them to vote to make that one call, one here, the first step in their return to our country. But here's how it happened. And at the same time or shortly after that, we had a case to examine how some people enrolled in the list of our citizens were given our citizenship, and they probably didn't, at least that's what it was thought, no basis for them to exercise that right, and from that right some other rights come from among which is the right to vote. So I think we should pay more attention and check how and how voter registration is done. We have improved voter registration in the sense that it has now become passive and that only on the basis of our documents, but there should be some other document, not only the CIPS' ID card, but also the passport, etc., because someone was not able to get the CIPS card but should allow him to vote if he has it in the list of citizens of this country and if he has any other document that is valid. Furthermore, what I also noticed, and not just me, are certain phenomena in the campaign itself. I'll name one of them, and that's child manipulation. I think the Electoral 85 Commission needs to examine all possible indications or reports, and there's an application in that sense, to see what's true, what's not true, and come to the scene and see who's manipulating children. So, say, I don't know either, again from some sources, but let's say the kids at that time, but only at that time, for that month, at the invitation of a paid ticket, I don't know, transportation to school, etc. When it's over, there's no later, of course, etc. That it was given to parents, so come on, but children are invited because they need... to come etc. Next, about buying votes. I, shortly after the local elections, asked that question here in Parliament and I received the answer that... there is no information or evidence of such a thing. If the information, or evidence is expected in a way that, sitting in an office, someone comes in and says, "I bought the voice and I bought it, my voice bought it," it's never gonna be that way. Why? Because it is both a criminal offence under the Federation of BiH Penal Code. I'm talking about the Federation, but I think so in RS. Therefore, it should be active and follow up with a trail of applications, notifications, etc. and find out, see if it's true or not true. If it's true, then punish whoever did it. And that's not the end of it. It usually happens like we say when something is allowed which is not allowed, then it goes more. The following is followed by the purchase of the mandate of elected councilors, or, I don't know, MPs, etc. What's behind the vote buying? There's a desire to get what you can't really get in a legal way, and after buying a mandate, it's even worse. There is some interest that can be achieved if a majority is purchased, and then, through a certain decision-making process, I don't know what kind of material or any other interest is provided. And I, too, am disappointed by the fact that in some places, areas, areas, there is no one to talk about and no one to doubt it. Look out, no one's doubting that. And nothing is done to prove it. I'm sorry, with all the thanks to the Electoral Commission, I'm not going to talk about bias at all, I think it's okay, there's no bias, but there's no action to prove some irregularities. And, I'll just remind you of something else. I was a member of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly for four years, and the OSCE, among other things, is committed strongly to monitoring elections in the OSCE member states. I was in five or six countries as an observer. I've had a chance to get familiar with the election process and I've met and how it's done, what's going on, what's the climate, the atmosphere, etc., which are complaints and so on. And I have to say, I haven't seen any irregularities of this kind, and I've been an observer, and I'm going to say it, and I'm going to say it again, in five or six countries. It disappoints me, because this is my country, and I care about being here for the best. Make it good for others, but make it best for us, not for the worst. And it is also known that the development of democracy in one country is measured by more indicators, and the most important indicator is freedom and regularity of the electoral process. We, if we show that our condition is better than it is, maybe we win, I don't know, some place around the hundredth, etc. ...the countries but it's not enough. And I believe that if all these irregularities are considered, and they are up to us, we need to identify them, record and investigate and sanction them. I am concerned, and I expect the situation to deteriorate further in the next election to fund election campaigns, especially with regard to the financing of vote buying. Well, that takes millions of marks. And we sometimes, I don't know, we get fat, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I And that's important, but we... we don't see the woods from the tree. So, we fail to see and sanction what is a major and significant violation of the law, etc., and what the whole process drags in one direction of major irregularities and to bring it into a state to ask whether the overall state is such that we can say that it is regular, free, impartial, etc. I mean the election process. 86 And here, I wouldn't really, I wouldn't be longer, here's the time that's scheduled to expire, but I'll also say that in the last few months in the space where I live, here's the space of Herzegovina, there's some very, very strange things happening, and again by elected officials, where some potential majority are being negotiated, and, I don't know, they're agreeing, suddenly it's changing, very interesting. So it even mentions how much money someone was given, mentioning very large amounts and figures etc. I don't know if it's not interesting... to our prosecution, to the police, to the SIPA, to the OSA, to the Electoral Commission, I'm really worried. What will follow, or where does this tend, what is the tendency? For a while, maybe already for the next election or some other election will be the one who has the money, it will have the power, and some others on the side have... money than we do here. Then we figure out who will be in charge, or who will be in charge, and ultimately determine the results of the election. Not citizens with their beliefs and their voices, but someone else, and I am convinced that the other is never with good intentions, but with their own interests, and these are not our interests.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26671	Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26672	I'll be very brief so.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26673	Don't rush. You've got 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26674	I won't. Don't worry. I couldn't help but say, I wasn't planning on it, but here I came, fresh, I was away.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26675	And another replica necessarily.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26676	It's not a replica, it's a discussion. So, first of all, this law enforcement report from the Central Election Commission's jurisdiction, I accept. It is comprehensive, general and it shows everything that needs to be seen, in general, the work of the Election Commission, especially about conflict of interest... on the ground. I believe and now I'm going to say that this Election Commission is working very... not a favourable environment. You know, it's not easy because the politician has, it doesn't seem to me, they're professional, they're doing a job for everyone, we've seen that for the past few months, so don't stand these attacks and tendencies. I'm not their lawyer, and I've been reported by exactly what they write, and they keep sending letters to the Electoral Commission even though there's no conflict... come. I wish I had heard the discussion of my colleagues behind my back, when a prominent member of the SDP was a member of the Electoral Commission, when on the table... was a photograph of your president, now this prominent member of the SDP Board, a member of the Municipal Council of the Centre, a member of the City Council, there was no bias, then everything was objective. We need to be a little real. And then, in my opinion, my colleagues work, I can't please everyone. They think they do, so I'd be on a thousand cannons just like you... that one of yours that was. Be a little objective, and when your member is that way, you'll be the same. I respect that and that's the way it's supposed to be. 87 When it comes to the Election Commission, here are colleagues from the Finance and Budget Committee, the audit report is always good. It's not that, here... that people work there seriously, professionally and respect regulations and rules. I also support my colleague Jukić. This discussion is all in place, but that's where the D.A.'s office should be doing its job. When it's the D.A.'s work report, that's what we're gonna say, those things. I was... last year and this one, which is why I wanted to say, the Municipal Election Commission (OIK), they were now given a first degree appeal. Believe me, you know there's a lot of small parties, and when they get away with it, they're drawing these election boards, they don't exist, there's no address, there's no address, there's no address, then for example. There's the Sanski Most Municipality, there's the SDA in power, what's left... was this year – all the SDA's stickers. Which means, you don't have these little ones, all of the SDA. So in some polling stations, an absolutely electoral committee controls one party. Okay, well, better the SDA than the SDP, that's what I'm gonna say right now, 'cause I see you're laughing. But what I'm saying is that this method is not good and that principle needs to be changed. There should be a public competition, so that people can enter from the profession, with college, independent. We're here because whoever has power, at least we all know that, doesn't let go of power that easily. Well, I don't want to brag anymore. I think they work as hard as they can, they always don't answer to anyone, but I wish my colleagues behind my back were objective. When it was before, everything was fine, even though we know it wasn't good. Now suddenly something's wrong. It's no good if you don't have any influence, it's no good right now. I know that this same lady faxed to the Chief of the Bihać Municipality ten times from the Electoral Commission... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26677	Okay, I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point 8. Ad. 8. Report on the protection of personal data in BiH and on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH The agency submitted this report to us in late April, it was discussed on the Constitutional Commission. We got the opinion on May 11th. The Commission has accepted this report and is proposing to the House that the report be adopted. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any reports. Finalising debate on point 8. We're going to point 9. 88 Ad. Nine. BiH Law Department's 2008 report
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26680	Thank you, Your Honor. And by respecting this time we've already spent, I'll try as short as possible. So we have before us this report of a very important institution for BiH whose legal position is set in a way, among other things, that
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26681	Please listen to each other, listen to each other, man talks.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26682	... has the responsibility and obligation to protect state property, to care for state property, to lead a very active role in protecting state property. And that's why I think with all due respect, and we need to treat this report as usual. Several questions are raised on the occasion of this report. One question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers. According to the Law on BiH's Defence, it is foreseen that the mandate of the defence attorneys during four years at a level playing field between the three defence attorneys in order to meet the requirement that the defence attorneys of all three constituent nations perform the same time in that term, while the other defence attorneys are the deputies. Partly due to the fluctuation in the Ombudsman's office, when there were no lawyers from the Bosniak and Croatian nations at one time, there were also resignations, and there were extensions of the mandate, and there were difficulties with the competition, mainly the consequences of the entire situation since the founding of 89 defences to this day a huge part of that period was held by a representative from one nation. Of course, it doesn't have to be any problem on its own. However, after being in the position of one nation's defence attorney for 36 months, the Council of Ministers re-appointed the defence attorney from the same people on July 3rd last year. I think it was an opportunity to capture that rate of change, which is a legal obligation, and replace and achieve the position of all three constituent nations in the position of attorneys. It is simply not clear to me why the Council of Ministers has acted so further that this illegal situation continues, in a way illegal, not in the sense that... it is illegal in terms of appointment, but illegal in terms of the request for rotation and to this day and to this day. I think that... The Council of Ministers should answer that question. I set it up, and when we talked about working on the Council of Ministers, there was no answer. It's another thing. Also, two years ago, when we were reviewing the report, three years ago when we were reviewing the report, I was asking the pravobranilaštvo's question 'What about the pravobranilaštvo General's relationship with Annex A of the Succession Agreement and what did the D.A. do in this regard and what does he intend to do?' There were some vague answers and some announcements and some promises. I will only remind myself that the Succession Agreement has been ratified, initialled, that it entered into force in 2001 and that of that Article 1. The Annex A to the Agreement on Succession Issues states that the movable assets and immovable state assets of the Federation established as former SFRY (state property) will be transferred to the following countries and to Article 2. Annex A of the Agreement has been established that the immovable state property of the former SFRY located in the territory of the former SFRY belongs to the successor States of whose territory that property is located. Therefore, from the Agreement on Succession, from this Annex A, it follows that after the entry into force of the Agreement on Succession, and the Agreement on Succession is an international act, so the Agreement on Succession as an international act is governed by domestic laws, because the international act itself is the property of Annex A that has become the property of the state of BiH. I must say that, starting from the legal position of the pravobranilaštvo General, which is required to take care of the property of the State, it is one of the main obligations and the main duties of the pravobranilaštvo's office, so in a specific case, to maintain an active position, to protect that property, to keep records of that property, by addressing, by initiating the registration procedure in the land books by applying for entry into the land-based offices of the competent courts and, of course, the obligation of the pravobranilaštvo to initiate appropriate proceedings if the property data indicate that it is illegal and other types of attacks on state property. Of course, given all of this, I have to say that I was expecting in the Attorney General's Office's report after all of these, all of this story, to get an answer and what about this question, what is the position, what has the pravobranilaštvo General done? However, you can see that in the entire report there are no chapters of Annex A. The Council of Ministers said in its report that the Ministry of Finance has, on several occasions, warned the Ombudsman about the issue of aneks A.. nemati, it is unclear whether the Council of Ministers has responded only in the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for the past year. And there's no law enforcement report, so there's no chapters that apply. There are concrete cases, property-legal relations, labour-legal, etc., with regard to assets abroad, but there are no details in this report regarding Annex A. There is only one detail, which is listed in the Programme Declaration, very controversial, very problematic, which says 'The BiH Law Department will specifically engage in the protection of property and property interests of BiH after the adoption of the Law on State Property, which... will be prescribed which property will be owned by BiH in order to take over legal actions, and after that, the Ombudsman will take 90 legal actions, i.e. the registration of property rights and rights of ownership in public books, land books and real estate cadastres, and if it is necessary to file real legal charges in order to protect them.’ I think this formula is absolutely unacceptable. So, I'd like to hear from the Attorney General the answer 'What did the pravobranilaštvo General do specifically on Annex A, why is that not mentioned in this report, the question of relations to aneks a? Is there any agreement between the College with this formulation in the production of such formulations, among other things, in the programme orientation and the one I have read?" The other thing, today we got one answer, Mr. Mehmedović, MP. I would like a decadent answer, "Is the creation of this response a full college has participated, or is that part of the College or one member of the College?" Because we know how the law requires the Rules of Procedure to be implemented. And, of course, with the assessment that this relationship of the pravobranilaštvo General's office throughout this period with regard to Annex A to the Agreement on Succession, I think, one of the reasons why we have such a big problem in the matter of state property waiting for us these days to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26683	Let's move on, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26684	First of all, I have to say, I wasn't present on the Constitutional Commission for legitimate reasons. So, I was at some other job when the debate was held, but it was very interesting that on the Constitutional Legal Commission one member of the Constitutional Legal Commission was "for", one was "against" and three members of the Constitutional Legal Commission were "abstained" in this report, and in such a way, therefore, or thus this report was not accepted. I have to say that I've looked at the little and so far reports of the Attorney General that we've been getting here, which we've accepted, and this synergy and previous synergy, and that he's in the same form, and I have to say that what he writes here is (naturally, not with these numbers) either in previous reports, and there have been no objections that we have today. So, we haven't had this remark so far. We know when we passed the Sucession Act, we don't need to talk about it, after all, a fellow Genjac talked about it. And this leads me to a very different conclusion, which is that it is not a problem in this report but rather a problem in the Council of Ministers who... has not changed the national structure of the defence attorneys, or has not changed the lawyer to be no longer from the order of the Serb people. It is therefore necessary to find certain shortcomings in order not to be accepted, of course, this report and to make this a problem in another way. Of course, I also allow that I am wrong and that what I said is not true, but that everything is really like this, and that the comments so far have been the result of the lack of information of fellow Genjac who have been informed about it this year, and so far has not. I took a little bit of this report, so I'm telling you which, what kind of report isn't... unless these findings in this report are correct, so let's say on page 3, we have a finding that 'in cases in which the D.A. decides the absolute urgency achieved in solving these cases within the time limit laid down. So that's one finding. If she's not right, then I accept that this whole part of the report can't stand like this. So let's say, the second finding on page 4, when it talks about litigation cases, says " 92% of the litigious 91 cases have been resolved in favour of BiH". If it's not 92% enough for an institution to get a pass, here I agree that it's not 92% enough, that it takes 100%, but this finding is what it is. Or station 7 is now talking about a very characteristic group of cases of lawsuits, complaints, I don't know, I don't know, border police employees, the military, etc. where the pravobranilaštvo was in a position to protect the budget and where they say they 'protected the Budget of BiH'. Or, let's say, let's take the next one, for example. on page 15. Defence at the end of this side 15 says: "As far as the financial resources granted to the BiH institution's budget are concerned, they were used by 76%." There aren't many institutions that haven't used all their budgets in the last year. And I could find more of these findings here that are not said to be true anywhere. Between what is now written in these findings and, of course, what the D.A. didn't do, and it has to be done, and it is certain that there is more, in my opinion, more about the arguments in favour of the positiveness of this report than against this report. It's really very hard to expect that in the absence of law or in all this trouble to get to the law on state property, and we see how hard it is to go into this job at all, to expect the D.A. to do it sooner and sooner. The next thing you know (I really don't understand what you're trying to achieve in the previous discussion and this is practically a replica, this part is a replica on a fellow Genjac) is the question of whether the entire College took part in the formulation, in some form there participated in the entire Law Department College. I've come to the conclusion that someone from the D.A.'s College has subflyed, so I said, "Here, I didn't participate, don't chase me, I am in this College on your proposal, but I didn't participate, and don't touch me, touch those who participated in this, don't do me, I didn't participate." It is known who is responsible under the law for the reports, the writing of the report, means who submits the report and who, after all, is responsible for the functioning of this entire institution, if the person responsible is not satisfied. If this report is not right, then of course, the Council of Ministers should deal with another issue, not with the issue of repairing this report, but with personal issues. That's why I and I think Mr. Genjac's discussion is exactly that. But here, I repeat, I allow myself to be wrong. As far as I'm concerned, I think there are enough arguments in this report to support it, and I will support the Attorney General's report on the work during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26685	Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26686	I thank you, Chairman. I will mention here what, in my opinion, is very important in this report and what should be given special attention. When you look at page 6 and it... in this report is one part answering this question asked by Dr Genjac when it comes to, part of it, although, of course, it was necessary to give a little more space when it comes to Annex A of the Agreement on Succession, but here on page 6 it is said that the dispute that the state led against the Federation of BiH, when the Federation of BiH (FBiH Joint Affairs) without foundation took up space and 92 injured the continuity of the property of the BiH state as a legal follower of the RBiH. And on that basis, the dispute came to the Court of BiH and here stands in this report when the Court reached a verdict, the Court of BiH reached a verdict and established a violation of the right to the integrity and legal continuity of the property of the BiH state and committed the Federation, i.e. Joint Service to hand over space for use. So, from this verdict, and the court decision is... one of the sources of law, it says that the BiH state has a legal continuity and all the property located on BiH's premises is BiH's property. Because in aneks II., what Doctor Genjac is talking about, it states that Article 7 regulates that the immovable state property of the former SFRY located on... territory of the former SFRY will belong to the newly established state of which the property has been declared independent since that day, it belongs to that right of ownership and the right of that property will be treated as if it was created on the day that that state declared independence. So on the day that independence was declared, the property located on the territory of that state is the property of that state, for those reasons, because it means part of it is in the case of Annex II. This agreement is... it's been given some attention. Therefore, in this part there is a legal continuity over the property belonging to BiH. For these reasons it was... good that it was and I am convinced that both Doctor Genjac and his party president, perhaps he forgot it, when he signed this joint statement that he might have remembered it a little better wouldn't in this part when it came to this joint statement about state property that he wouldn't have signed the part about state property. So if he had read this ruling to the BiH Court, then he would have made certain things clear to him. For these reasons, this is significant,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26687	Let's go back to this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26688	This report, I think we should back it up. I expect the Advocate to answer one of my questions that I asked earlier when it comes to the application of this Act on the temporary ban on the availability of state property 'How is the state of things under this law, how is it broken, how are the exceptions to the application of this law, etc.' But in general, it's important, so there is, for me, the most important thing is that it's about the Agreement on Success and the application of this law here, in a certain way, here, and this Agreement on Sucession,...it's been given a great deal of attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26689	Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26690	I'll go as usual for a few minutes. Also, I will support this report for a number of reasons. I've always been clear, specific, direct. It was my own experience. I went to the D.A. on a case when I was asking questions about the property of the former Communist Union. And believe me, I'm so thrilled with the professional relationship between the state's attorney and the pravobranilaštvo that I'm thrilled that an institution exists to protect the state's property. I also had an insight into all the documents, and I got the necessary documents, although there were some pressures, because 93 mayors of the municipalities were all from the SDP, so they tried something to register, nothing was done. So, number one, they passed my test right away. The second case was this law on state property, which is a very important law. You know that even for a time there was an ungrateful role that the BiH Advocate... had won to do the 'Stat of State Property Act' and he did it. The D.A.'s office, in my opinion, was a compromise that could satisfy all sides, and I think there's one big positive assessment. We know that the primary function of the state's attorney is to protect the state's property. When we look at those statistics from the cases received in the property court and the budget, I think this is fine and this report should be supported. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26691	Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26692	I thank you, Mr. President. Here, we now have the continuity of these reports, just before the Central Election Commission, now the pravobranilaštvo's office. And as for methodologies and reports and data, I don't see much difference. I think that they, both the report, have very well set things up and located the problems, of course, the question of content is also open here. Now, as far as the pravobranilaštvo General is concerned, how many other institutions are responsible for the dispute – that is a key issue. And that's no reason for us to dispute this report. So, I wasn't on that Constitutional Commission either, and if I was, I wouldn't have had a reservation according to the report itself, I'd give some suggestions, and I'm going to act like one today. As for the personnel issues that Dr. Genjac has opened, I think that these things are clear and that they need no further problems, because now there's no problem. The problems existed last year when two deputy attorneys went to other posts and more than a year and a few days were vacant and until the procedure reached had been lost for almost two years. Now it's all in order, Day 19. 8. In 2008, Attorney General Dragica Miletić, deputy deputies, and here it is said that the rotation will be done in accordance with the law and I think and believe it and I do not see there at all the need for this issue to be speculated with in any way. I mean, so this question of succession is legitimate, and I'd like to hear an opinion here is there a strong enough reason that in some way this question can have a crucial impact on our relationship with this report. I'd like to hear it firsthand. But I think it was useful to see what my colleague Remzi said and, in that sense, I believe that, with these suggestions, cooperation with other institutions, you see here which institutions are listed, by the Council of Ministers, the Presidency of BiH, the Parliament of BiH and all other institutions, and it is our common responsibility that in these disputes of interest for BiH we all act at the level of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26693	Šefik Džaferović. And I still have Milorad Živković reported. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26694	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have been detained on the Constitutional Legal Commission in relation to this report. I've been looking for some solutions, I've had in mind all this talk today at Parliament's session, I've proposed some conclusions, given what's written in this report, there's been no willingness to reach any compromise on some conclusions, and then there's nothing left for me but to be abstention. I said on that occasion, I will also say on this occasion, I do not belong to the category of those who believe that if there are certain problems in the state institution, and that the people who work there are not responsible for these problems, but that it is the Council of Ministers, Parliament and, they are not doing their job, that we punish that institution by not adopting the report. That's what I said then, that's what I'm saying here and I'm operated on it. I have taken the opportunity on the Commission and today I will take the opportunity here at Parliament to point to two questions that we cannot say should be brought into the context of this report. The first question is the question of rotation. And the Council of Ministers, if there were any problems in that, the Council of Ministers is responsible because I was against rotation in 2001, 2002, when this law was passed. Later, when we changed it, I was against it again. Others sought rotation; so when they sought, let it be respected. The Council of Ministers obviously did not respect it, there were rotations, but there was also a large interspace, and then it seemed like there was no rotation and therefore it was not the responsibility of the Attorney General, or of the people who work there. The other thing is about relations in the Attorney General's office and I'm going to say it here in public, I said it on the Commission as well. I am not only from Bošnjak but also from Hrvat and Srbin, to be clear here right now, from all the people in the D.A. downstairs, some of them, I received information that there is no co-operation that should exist at the time of the defence – the deputies – that it acts as a team, that it acts as a court, that it acts as an institution. And it took a while, and I asked Mrs Miletić on the Constitutional Legal Commission that, if there is, that practice is interrupted and that one deputy and other deputy and assistants are simply respected, because this is a job that one man cannot carry. This is the application of rights, the application of civil rights, the application of bond law, it's supposed to be smart here, more people are smarter. And as far as I'm concerned, it wasn't for me that I was going to argue with this report. But there's one thing about this report that bothers me, and she wouldn't let me vote for it. I tried to fix it, to erase this thing from this report, and if we were to delete it, I would be ready to back it up again, but in a guideline marked by this third star of the Law Department's programme orientation, it says literally:'BiH's defence will specifically engage in the protection of BiH's assets and property interests after the adoption of the law on state property which... the law will prescribe which property will be owned by BiH in order to take legal action, and after that, the Attorney General will take legal action, i.e. the registration of property rights and rights of ownership in public books, land books, real estate cadastres, and if it is necessary to file real legal suits in order to protect them.’ 95 This is a very difficult attitude, I don't know if people are aware of who made it... what they did with this attitude. First of all, BiH's property is known today, at least, when it's really a legal aspect: it's all property that's being held in books as RBiH's assets, and that's all property, because the BiH state is, in principle, the continuity of that property. Then this is all the property that BiH as a state received under the Treaty of Sucession, which is actually all the assets of the former SFRY located on BiH territory, and by this principle it had to be accessed by the implementation of the Agreement on Sucession. And what we're doing today, we're doing a list of this property -- it's not dealing with the issue of this property law -- it's actually, in my opinion, first of all, the issue of resolving the obligations that our bodies have under the Agreement on Succession. And what's in that dispute now. We know that there are problems that the D.A. can't just solve these problems, the entities hold a good deal of that property, the non-owner is the owner, so entities aren't the owners but are the owners, they own it. Whether this is a legitimate and conscious move, therefore they can also be opinions, legal opinions, but write here that the Attorney General will only start to do so when the law on state property is passed, and we need to regulate this law, among other things, and the way in which this property is available, and the state is today truly the legal owner of that property – I think it is inadmissible. I tried to avoid this attitude (3) and because of this attitude (3) I had the attitude I had. For me, this is something that is totally unacceptable in this report. And another thing I owe here, correctness works, let me say. Our Attorney General, the Attorney General or the Attorney General, I don't know who he is, they made at the request, I think, these Prudo leaders, or the request of this commission, I don't know a single proposal from this committee. Here we can, here's to swallowing it easier for everyone, so at the request of the commission for this property, they've made one text of a law that can serve as a good basis for further discussion on the state property issue. And I am obliged to say this: that text was later not accepted. You know who he wasn't accepted from, but it's only fair that I say it here in this debate. Here, I can accept everything in this report but I can't accept this attitude here and that's why I have the attitude I have. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26695	Okay, it's about some kind of program orientation creation. Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26696	I have to say that really, here, I've read it several times now... this third star right here. I don't think it's correct for the D.A. to suffer the consequences of the incompetence of those who need to define these issues. Or it doesn't matter, I don't have to say incompetence, here, here's the inability for no matter what reason these questions are now to define. Furthermore, such formulations do not prejudge matters of state property. So, it's not gonna be the state property that gets rid of this because the D.A. wrote it in this report, it's going to get rid of what kind of law is passed here in this House. Here, that same pravobranilaštvo General has proposed some legal solution, a colleague himself said, which immediately means 96 glats rejected the commission itself. So it was immediately rejected,... even by some it was correct. By others, of course, very incorrectly and neither do I, etc. So I don't think it's right that this attitude doesn't support this report. That's all I wanted to say, because he can't decide anything about state property. Of course, if the D.A. considers it, meaning, on purpose, not a lawyer but the D.A. feels that this attitude can change, and that nothing in principle will mean anything, it's not that problem, I'm willing to support what they're saying, just so we can finish this story.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26697	Here's the replica of Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26698	Oh, I'm sorry, more, Chairman, I don't know,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26699	There's no need to apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26700	You can't man, I'm sorry. I see that, I understand you, I can no longer rephrase today what a man should rephrase,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26701	We'll leave something for tomorrow. Come on, never mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26702	I miss them. Look out, Momo, we don't need the law, we know what state property is. The problem is the state doesn't hold that property in its hands. That's the problem, Momo. We Momon't need the law. We don't need the law. We are passing state law to say now, to regulate relations in BiH in the area. We know that the entities own our state property. (?) microphone not enabled Ama, wait, man of God, so we want to be in BiH, we understand the structure of BiH, we understand what the current structure of BiH means, we want to arrange these relations, but that doesn't mean that, excuse my colleagues, the Alajbeg straw, because, as it is called, she responded to a statement by a gentleman, a colleague named Alajbegović, right, that doesn't mean that the lawyer should now observe it, they have submitted, and I welcome the fact that they filed a lawsuit, filed a lawsuit against the Federation of BiH because she took one building and received a dispute in court. Why did such lawsuits not follow in relation to the set of assets in BiH? But watch out, I say, I understand, I can understand, no one, we are not rootless people, we come from somewhere, right, we operate here, but write here officially in the document that it will only start to work when a law is passed that we want to regulate these relations in BiH – that is what is unacceptable to me. 97 That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26704	Mr. Živković. Just a little bit of attention to agree whether or not we're gonna be working till 6:00 or not? We have some agenda points that take a lot of time. By 6:00 p.m., we'll be tomorrow at 10:00. We'll make an appointment so who can. Here you go. Let us, Mr. Živković, be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26705	Thank you, Chairman. I know you begged me...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26706	Now, please, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26707	that I don't go out and talk, because obviously we can't get enough of each other to understand what we're talking about here. We are not discussing Annex II to the BiH Constitution today, nor are we discussing how the book, whose property is state property, is there in BiH at all, we are discussing this report today. And I want to believe, too, as some colleagues here have asked to respect human relations in the D.A.'s office, I ask that all institutions respect human relations, starting here, because the Minister of Security, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so the Employment Agency, are we going to move on, or are we just going to look at the signature of whose report and then base ourselves on that in our discussion. If we do this here in the BiH Parliament, and I'm afraid it's the intention of some parties to base themselves in the next period on being discussed here, I'm afraid we're going to get into big trouble, because then I'm going to watch who's in the signature first, and then I'm going to determine my discussion accordingly. And that's why we haven't even answered, some of us, is now honoring the exceptions that have been with the words of criticism to the previous agenda. Because, you know, we depend on the Central Election Commission and they can punish us one way or another, so we all commended that report (?) We're not all. I said with honorable exceptions, right. And I told you about the ones who didn't answer, because they didn't care who was in the signature. I'm afraid this time we've gone a little too far in our discussions, calling for nationality etc., etc., not saying it's not about someone who's signing this report, it's about the Council of Ministers. And if anyone needs to be criticized or told what 98 needs to do, it needs someone else to do it, not a signer of this report here today. And the fact that some people are nervous so they can't wait and listen to others, that's what it says about their behavior, their code, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26709	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. I am concluding a debate on the 2008 Law Department's work report. Let's go, just a little attention, just a little attention to move on, go to point 10. Ad. Ten. Interim report by the Commission on the determination of donor spending The very name of this report says what nature it is. We got it – please, please, hello, I didn't see it, the train passed next year – so the Interim Report of the Commission of Investigation to determine the spending of donor funds. May I have your attention, please? You received this report in late April. In addition to this report, the Commission, as you could see, submitted a proposal for a project to establish the spending of donor funds. In addition, the Commission proposes a necessary budget and proposes a way to provide funds. You could also see that the Commission is proposing the engagement of 15 employees with a description of the expertise and work tasks and that it has decided to hire civil servants to make the funds for compensation for their work smaller, and thus the budget of this commission would be lower. And here, not to read, I hope you could see in the Interim Report that these are the conclusions that are proposed. I'm opening a debate on the Interim Report. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. .../a brief interruption in the recording of... the powers of the Council of Ministers, ___________(?(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26713	Well, you don't have to apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26714	No, no, I'm sorry, everything's fine. AZRA
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26715	: At least not to me, but here I don't know if my colleague Okolić is also registered for this item of the agenda, right, so maybe we should first hear someone in front of this committee. I wanted to say about it and eventually answer some questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26716	Obviously, we don't have a president of this committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26717	But here, it's in front of this committee. Then I'll do it after the Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26718	Of course, of course, here you go, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26719	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I'm the first deputy, and today there is no chairman of this committee justifiably, I'm asked to give a little introduction to this agenda point. And, here, I'll just say maybe what's most important and what's not Mr. Chairman's said. Here you have the Interim Report of the Investigation Commission which was needed to be delivered by the end of the eighth month, but the Commission found it appropriate to deliver it earlier, and the report was delivered on the basis of that decision. It was delivered earlier because the Commission needed and should support this parliament to know how it will continue to work and act. I'm not going to convince this report, you've probably read it, but I'm going to say the essence of the conclusions of this report proposed by this committee. In fact, the Commission may have entered into something that it should not have entered, which is that it has even suggested where this project is being financed, which is here and I think it is up to you to decide whether or not you will accept this proposal from the Commission, and what is more important for the Commission, which is: to support this project which the Commission has proposed and which is a total or cca 50,000 marks that has been drastically reduced compared to the amount of the cost of the project from the previous commission, which was 298 and a few thousand, close to 300,000, and which is drastically reduced in relation to the proposal that was behind that commission and which was also the original proposal 100 of this commission, which was about 400,000 marks. After sitting down and seeing that it was really in this year's recession a lot of funds and we were looking for other exits and modalities and we came to the conclusion that it was best to use domestic resources when it comes to employees, i.e. officials, etc. and made this proposal for this programme with our employees in the Assembly and in other state bodies, and it is at its expense between 45 and 50,000 marks, and this range is moving because it depends on the RS entity how much it will be taken from the Federation, because the contributions are not the same, but apparently some figure is oriented according to my plan: 50,000 marks. I think that for the work of this committee, you know that this is not for the work of this committee, but that this is for a project which the Commission would propose to this Parliament and this Parliament to adopt, and that there would be an investigation into where the donor funds went and whether they were transparently spent or not, and given that there has been a lot of controversy about this, that the Commission has done a lot in the first composition and indeed had a good project, but here it has not come to the understanding of the Council of Ministers then and has not received the funds of nearly 300,000 marks, we appreciate that this Parliament should now adopt this Interim Report of the Investigation Commission, under number 1. Under number 2, to adopt a fully provisional report of the Commission and with a proposal of these measures how to get to these 50,000 marks that we believe are not really great funds in relation to what is coming from the work ahead of this Commission and how much use could possibly be obtained through the work of this Research Commission, that is, through the realization of this project that we are proposing to you. If Parliament does not decide today to adopt a proposal for funding, then the proposal will probably go in a different direction after the Commission, which is that from the budget reserve or some other items, as the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers have already committed themselves, will be given to this commission for this work programme, and if this report is fully adopted, then it will be decided today. Here, thank you very much. Let me just say that it's about here, you saw in this table, calculated that each of the MPs will be deprived of these funds equally regardless of the size of the club, and that's about 800 marks by the end of the year, for the purpose of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26720	Thank you, Mr. Okolić. Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26721	Thank you, Chairman. I wouldn't mind, and I was the first person to argue this matter, so I'm asking what's going to happen and what's going to happen to this committee? Do we have our institutions?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26722	Slavko, it's not the subject of debate. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26723	The object is because I won't support it being branded for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26724	Well, you'll pay 10% of the salary, never mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26725	Let me go. It's not a problem. Here's the whole salary if there's gonna be anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26726	All right, let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26727	Please, we're not going any further, we're waiting to finish now. Please, we've had countless commissions like this. Here's the crackdown, the Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat and others in Sarajevo spent 230,000 marks, bit by a shit wolf. They don't have any results for one face.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26728	I guess it's a donkey, Slavko!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26729	Please, let me finish. That's, that's our commission. What are our institutions doing in charge, the prosecution, the SIPA, the OSA, why aren't they doing their job? Why do we need a commission, and it's not a problem 50,000 marks. Here are 5 million marks if they determine, and what will they do as sanctions for those who stole those donations, money, if they determine anything, what will they produce, what sanctions? What's gonna happen? That's why you shouldn't even give a stamp to this commission. Gentlemen, if you're not going to work on the basis of what you're Members, here I volunteer to replace every member to work for free and to force institutions that are competent and paid, to SIPA, OSA, and to deal with these investigations, that's their task, not parliamentary investigative committees, and now we're going to be dealing with investigating committees, so when there's no 300,000 marks, there's 50; and when there's no 50, let's go 20, so just do it. He can't even make a stamp, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26730	Slavko, they're not looking for people for themselves, people are looking for...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26731	I know who they're looking for. I'm sorry, now you've provoked me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26732	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26733	He can't work for the commission whoever's there and for whatever it is, for coffee. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26734	I take it back, I take it back, I take it back. We voted this committee. Replica, Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26735	Just a short replica for the public. So the funds are not related to the work of the members of this committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26736	Here, let's get back to the report, get back to the press release. Azra Hadžiahmetović. A little, Mr. Novaković, there is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26737	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'm glad we heard this opening argument. Finally, this parliament has given its support for the appointment of this commission, appointed members of this commission. Parliament did the same in the previous meeting, and that commission also wanted to make the report very badly for a time, and then it made an account, then the Council of Ministers refused to pay for it, etc. Probably, and now there's gonna be trouble paying. But not because of the payment, my discussion is not now focused on that part of the problem that my colleague Jovičić was talking about. But here, I have a need to repeat to this Parliament something that has been said in the last term, which was formed in the previous term of office while L. he was chairman of the Council of Ministers. Then a single arrangement was signed with the UNDP, an aid co-ordination agreement. As far as I know, this unit that was recently at the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has moved to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and it would be really normal for someone here to come out of the Ministry of Finance for a payday and say that there are people who are getting paid for this. So, I just want to draw attention to not doing the duplication. Secondly, if you're paying someone on the basis of the project, I'm asking a question, regardless of what sources, parliamentary, personal, parliamentary clubs, budgets, the College to approve representations, whatever you want: what happens if we don't get the result of the project, what's the subject of the project? Then will these people who get the money return that money, or who today can guarantee that some embassy of some country that gave the donation will give you the first piece of information that she gave a donation to, to whom she intended, etc., because I know what they met, what problems they encountered in the work exactly these people who were now at the Ministry of Finance, who were at the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economy. This is just, therefore, not disputing support that this commission that wanted to do and do its job, that it still continues to do its job, but I have tried in some way to draw your attention to just some questions that we should all consider. Thank you. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26738	Replica, Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26739	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, if you remember, when voting on the formation of this commission, the SDA Club was against even forming this commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26740	Who's the replica, Šemso, I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26741	The Replication Is Appreciable
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26742	Party for BiH club, good, good.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26743	... Professor Hadžiahmetović and Mr. Slavko Jovičić. Should we be more specific? You don't have to. And of course, here, given that this House has formed the Commission, the Commission has begun its work. And the first thing that was to determine where the previous commission came from, and it was done. And based on a project that had a previous commission, this commission was actually supposed to adopt at its session a single project... that cost 300 and a few thousand marks. Understandably, what would and how would you react here if we went out with a project like that and we drove it to about 50,000 marks. My replica refers to you, the distinguished professor, that these are not capacity-doubled funds in terms of investigations where funds are spent, but for project management. We cannot as a commission, as advocates run this project, but precisely from the ranks of Parliamentarians and the Council of Ministers should take people who will spend their free time additionally in addition to regular work activities, means outside of the working hours, to help us push this project out to the end. And SDA Club, here, if I can speak on his behalf, means he insists that these things get kicked out of the open, that he gets dressed up to the end and we give full support to this commission and this project to do it to the end, because you've seen all kinds of signs, statements, unfortunately, fellow MPs in this house that it's young Bosniak capital, as it's the basis for some, not to mention what, so we care about getting those things out of the clear. Because there are also people in this house who used to be ministers, who used to direct these donations for all kinds of repairs of houses in different ways. We want these things kicked out by a cleaner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26744	I don't remember the Party for BiH and how it was a problem for this activity. We even initiated those things. But here, let's move on to the replicas now. Slavko Jovičić. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26745	Your Honor, I made myself clear earlier. I didn't mean the MPs to take it from themselves, I don't blame my colleagues, but I have an example of an eclant who shows what the commission is. We formed the Anthem Commission and took five emeritus artists, from Sidran to Risojevic, and now owe them 5,000 marks, no one pays, that's 25,000, because they're after me. We don't have an anthem, and I don't have a commission. So please, as far as we come, it's an example of life what we do: 25,000 marks, and now they're looking for 50. And that's what they're asking for for our employees. And these passionate artists have nothing to do with Parliament. What does Sidran have to do with parlament, Risojevic's writer or that musiclogist, but we hire them, but someone promised 5,000 marks, no money. They call me every day, "What about the money?" What do I have to do? Well, even if we had an anthem, here's what I'd say, you've earned it. Now there's no money, there's no anthem, there's no one to pay people off, and now these guys are looking for this. Who are you looking for? For those you can order to work tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26746	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26747	Let's conclude we make Parliament. We're ordering the SIPAs and the D.A. to investigate everything. _________(?) /microphone off/ Well, the report is whatever you want to put together, but you're looking for new ones. Then why do you need money if they're our workers, if they're getting one salary? Well, I can't be in two jobs at the same time. I have to come here first to leave. I can't get out of here, and I didn't come. What else do I have to explain?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26749	Remzi, did you sign up for the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26750	Let me get this straight: the replica to Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26751	Let's just listen to each other for a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26752	So it's about the ad hoc commission that was supposed to investigate this. And the personnel department immediately came to me with a solution and I signed the fees to work on ad hoc commissions. So, there's everything. 105 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26753	May I have your attention, please? You all know everything, you had this report, we voted. You have this report, now let's check it out again. Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here's Živković, the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26754	Well, of course, I didn't know what Mr. Mehmedović was replicating to me at all, so you'd just ask what the replica is all about?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26755	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26756	I didn't mention it to the SIPA or the D.A.'s office, I mentioned a specific point at the Ministry of Finance, which is working on the implementation of the UNDP aid coordination project. So listen carefully, colleague, and then replicate, or repeat my line so I know what to reply to.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26757	Is there an application, Mr. Novaković?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26758	If it bothers...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26759	No, no, is it standing?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26760	If it bothers you, I can.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26761	Don't mind, be my guest, God forbid, God forbid, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26762	I'll just make one suggestion, I won't discuss this at all. Given that we have formed this commission and that this is not how we discussed it when we voted for it, etc., I propose a conclusion – because we have the practice that all the materials go first to a commission and that after the debate in that committee they come here to the House, which makes it easier for Parliament to make some decisions here – therefore I suggest that this report also goes first to the Commission for Finance and Budget to look at this project. Of course, in his debate, he also held talks with the ministry and proposed a solution to Parliament. I think that's how we're going to get out of this story that's slowly, I really have to say, it's becoming incorrect to these people that we've forced to get into this committee where it's certainly not easy to work at all. So I wrote that conclusion, and I put it into protocol: so let's refer this report, first of all, to the Finance and Budget Commission, and then let's make a decision here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26763	Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26764	Thank you. I wanted to replicate right after the incursion of the president of our Administrative Commission because I don't think it was relevant. We all voted for this committee here. The money obtained for this commission – you can check how members of that commission work, so Živković Milorad does not take that money from that commission and does not work for that money – they go for other purposes and you can check where, that I am not talking about it now. I don't think that was appropriate. If you do not want this commission to continue to work, get up and say and suggest the conclusion that the work of this committee ends, and that is the decision of this home, either accept this report by the Commission, or put to the vote the conclusion that this commission is not working, and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26765	Remzija Kadrić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26766	Well, I just wanted to explain things. So this commission is already costing. That's what I was going to say, and not here was the impression, I helped Slavuj to say that this commission is already producing costs, nothing else, so there's no confusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26767	Replica, Živković. Of course, this commission produces costs, some people direct it to humanitarian purposes, some for other purposes, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26768	All those who voted here for the Ad hoc commission knew that the commission was costing. Then you say this out loud here, and it's clear to me, it's inappropriate. You shouldn't have voted to form this commission, because you knew that when a commission was formed it produced costs. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26769	It's all costing. Mr. Raguž, come in. And our work costs good.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26770	So to be precise, I support that here from our salaries continue funding this project, to be clear that I am not wasting my time, but here I have read that the Commission has unanimously taken the position to submit this report. It's a very important thing to me. We're like Dom formed it. And I suggest we support Mr. Novaković's proposal today. This is a coincidence that next time I support today, it doesn't matter which entity we're from, which party, if the proposals are good, it shows that it's one model of the future. So, the Finance Commission really puts a little bit of this proportion and then we definitely set ourselves up on this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26771	We already have such a proposal on the tables, so we'll get to the bottom of it. But here, Denis Bećirović also signed up for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26772	I'm also reporting as a member of this committee to say a few words. The Commission held four sessions and today we are as a commission at a turning point. The last commission failed on this particular issue. We need to show here today whether we have the strength and will to give this commission a chance to finally examine everything we've been talking about for at least 10 years in this country. One report was made by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and the report was received by all members of the commission. However, it is an incomplete report. But also on the basis of that report that some conclusions can be drawn from, it is clear, not to say, and scandalous how individual donors went and how we today have no record of how these donations ended, where they went, for what purposes, whether they fulfilled the purpose they came to BiH for. So today, the House of Representatives doesn't have much choice and I agree with my colleagues from this commission who have discussed before me: either you will give the Green Light to that commission which no one else has formed but this Parliament, or we will put an end to this commission's work with all the controversies that come from this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26773	It was clear at first, it took us an hour to get to it, but here we have additional circumstances now. So, Mr Novaković has proposed a kind of conclusion on which the outcome of the vote, on it, depends whether we declare ourselves today on this Interim Report or not. So I don't know if you have it on your desks. 108 Therefore, Mr Novaković simply suggests that this Interim Report, especially when it comes to this project and its structure, etc., go to the Finance and Budget Commission, to obtain some kind of opinion and to return. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Well, here, either on the Administrative or on the one and the other, doing the model, etc. As far as I'm concerned, I believe, and the other MPs are concerned, no one is causing a problem with funding, nor is it going to fall for funding. That's for sure we don't sell each other around here right now. So, but here, before we go any further, let's get to the bottom of this conclusion. The outcome of the vote will depend on whether we vote today on this Interim Report or after the Commission's opinion is obtained. Here you go, Mr. Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26775	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here, maybe before we go on a plea to simply realize that today this commission is either in further work or it isn't. If we want what we've all found here when we've decided that this commission is doing, to shed light on what's being written and what's being said, etc., which is probably in the interest of everyone and, possibly, to find out what malversions have been doing and to get some funds back into the budget, then maybe, if we don't accept this conclusion of Mr. Novaković, I would suggest another kind of conclusion, which is that this conclusion may be divided in two directions, to accept this report by the Research Commission on the work so far and on the programme proposed, and the funding for the proposed programme, here we can be tolerated in this sense that we don't consider ourselves as a commission to be entitled to suggest what wasn't perhaps even the most popular, but here we are proposed for the recession, savings, etc., and that funding these funds under the programme which is foreseen here: let our opinion of the Finance Commission and the Ministry, etc., then we would come to the best solutions to the Commission. If we don't adopt this program, then we don't even have to look for funds, because there's no point, in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26776	I have not registered any tones against this report, nor this project,..., even, against the way it is financed, but we have remained in some way to consult these two commissions as a model of how it is done and whether it is possible to do so. But nobody gives up on the project as far as I see it, right, except Slavko making a little something and stuff. Okay. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26777	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26778	All right, all right. Please prepare to make a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Vote now! 28 votes "yes" (18 Federation, 10 RS). I agree that Mr. Novaković's proposal for a conclusion has been given to both the general and the entity majority. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Proposal for measures from the BiH Council of Ministers' competence to mitigate the impact of the global economic crisis on BiH's economy After several of our emergencyes, the Council of Ministers delivered these measures to Parliament in late April from this point on our agenda. We referred this material to the Finance and Budget Commission. The Commission has delivered its opinion on the proposal for measures and, as you have seen, the Commission supports, or adopted, the proposal for measures from the Council of Ministers' competence and referred it to a further parliamentary procedure, and has also proposed one conclusion to Parliament that you could see from this report, i.e. the Commission's opinions on the deadlines and reporting of the House of Representatives, i.e. the BiH Parliament on the realisation and the effects achieved relating to these measures. I am opening a discussion and discussion on the occasion of item 11. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Well, this is the last time. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26780	If we're gonna get mad, I won't. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really didn't think to be the first to come forward because I think the subject is very serious and that I expected here from the President of the Commission to present any reserves they had with this conclusion. You see, when you look at the opening statement of these measures, it is said that the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury has consulted the Directorate for Economic Planning, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations about the World Bank document. Therefore, only reference was made to a particular document and these two institutions consulted and this resulted in such a programme of measures. 110 Later, when you look at this whole program, let me be forgiven, these are more difficult than concrete measures. I can finish... thank you. So, out of 60 and some BiH institutions that would normally be in the jurisdiction of the BiH state, let me say, because this is about measures from the Council of Ministers' jurisdiction, you don't have any institutions other than those that relate mainly to the financial sector. Since there is no will, and there is, I see now, it's good, I'll continue, so to leave time and colleagues, I won't go from measure to measure, but one general finding is that the measures are so general that they don't even see who's going to work, when and how they're going to work. All and one measure is more difficult than a measure. You see, hastily task the Ministry of Foreign Trade, agencies and other bodies in charge of creating a favourable business environment to propose amending and adapting legislation that improves the single economic space and improves the business environment. So here, I'm not really going from measure to measure, really, let me say, you can make the same observation and comment on them. I just want to conclude in the end that we can't consider this any proposal for concrete measures by one executive for a serious situation that we have, you know, regardless of what can be said about the possibly limited or constraint of the Council of Ministers. In addition, only the Ministry of Finance and Treasury participated in this programme. It's about the economic crisis, it's not just about the financial crisis, you know. There is no institution here that has committed itself to a specific action and measure that is limited and contained, defined by content, limited by deadline and by other capacities. So I don't think this is an answer to the topic and this can't be a plan of measures and this is unacceptable for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26781	That's obvious, Mr. Križanović. So that tells us what's going on with our initiatives, our desires, etc., and in what way. We've seen what this material means. He doesn't mean anything. This is a completely missed topic. We've been formulating the agenda point -- state analysis, state assessment, system at all how it fits the state, state, entity, etc., what we've got is this zero. So, in my opinion, you need to interrupt the debate, return it to the Council of Ministers, look for guidelines, I'll send a letter so you don't waste your time and don't waste any time. Based on this, we can't argue. If you don't mind? Here you go, Martina.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26782	Any measure must have deadlines, there are no deadlines here. That's clearly what you tell them in the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26783	So it's clear, but we have constant pressure on the College: what about this initiative, what about that initiative? We cannot provide more quality materials with deadlines, etc. You've also seen this material that we're last-minute for this press thing today, etc. 111 So, I suggest that we return this to the Council of Ministers, to remind ourselves that the formulated item was our agenda: Analysis of the situation and assessment of the situation, the proposal, the system of measures, etc., and to obtain everything that is done in this country, for which who is in charge. The Fiscal Council and the Central Bank and entities and entity governments, etc. were also included. So, is there any need to vote on this, Branka?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26784	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26785	There's a need. Please prepare to vote on this point of the agenda today. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 20 votes "yes" (15 Federation, five RS), the House of Representatives concluded that this item of the agenda is not being discussed today and that the material is being returned to the Council of Ministers, with a conclusion and a request that the topic is completely missed within the meaning of our request. To look for an analysis of the situation, an assessment of the situation and a review of the overall measures taken in the country at different levels and from different institutions, and then we can discuss further activities. I don't mind if someone has an idea when I write a letter, I'd be happy to, but we understood basically what we wanted.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26786	Does this conclusion mean we'll have a next session?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26787	I'll do my best, it doesn't make sense, and I can't guarantee it, but I'll do my best. Only then do we replace the Council of Ministers here, etc., to prepare them a little. Let's try to get them, there's another point like that. So here's the conclusion of point 11. Let's go to point 12. Ad. 12. A strategy to prevent and combat domestic violence in BiH for the period 2009 to 2011 The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees provided Parliament with a strategy from this point on. The Commission for Gender Equality, etc.I mean her name. We received the Commission's opinion on 12 May. From the opinion you saw that the Commission supported the Strategy and proposed to the House that it be adopted, with the conclusion that the Council of Ministers undertakes to submit at least once a year a report to the Parliamentary Assembly on the implementation of the Strategy for Prevention and Combating Family Violence in 2009-2011. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to point 13. Ad. 13. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a revised strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement Annex VII. Dayton Peace Agreement
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26790	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26791	I mean, excuse me, excuse me. Ad. 14. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2008 We also left it to find in the debate that we delay the debate until the prosecutor's presence. Do you agree? Shall we vote, Branka?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26793	We will.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26794	Please prepare to vote. I'm sorry we have to. Vote now! 113 With 26 votes "yes" (17 Federation, nine RS), the House of Representatives decided to postpone the discussion of the BiH Prosecutor General's Office's work for 2008 for the next session to ensure the presence of BiH's chief prosecutor. Moving to point 15. Ad. 15. Information from the BiH Ministry of Security on the state of security of journalists in Bosnia and Herzegovina (realisation of the conclusions adopted at the 47th session of the House, held on 4. 3. 2009) So, at that time, by considering the issues of attack, the frequent attacks on journalists, along with others, we also adopted a conclusion tasked with the Ministry of Security to prepare this information for us. And here we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26796	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26797	Here you go, Denise.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26798	...can help a little. Since we, the chairman, have received this material during today's session and we really have not been able to study it and it is a very sensitive subject, I propose a proposal, if you agree, to conclude that we are leaving for the next session of this session of the agenda so that we can study the material and prepare ourselves for this part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-13-0.u26799	I don't mind, but let's ask Dom. So, you heard Mr. Bećirović's suggestion that because of the short time we were able to get acquainted with this information (of course, with the minister's gratitude for trying to provide us) we would postpone the debate, that is, this item of the agenda will be discussed at the next session. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 23 votes "yes" (14 Federation, nine RS), I find that the House of Representatives has decided that the Information Ministry of Security on the state of the press is delayed for the next session. We're going to point 16. 114 Ad. 16. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services I said something about this in the opening notes. So, you've seen the report, so the law is in line with the adoption of three amendments. Is there any need to discuss the report? No, thank you. Let's go to point 17. Ad. 17. A statement on Momčilo Novaković's initiative on the point "Examination of positions and measures to improve the situation of BiH citizens who were employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia and fired from work from 1991 to 1995"
