ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5457	... the quorum of all clubs, I welcome the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers, distinguished Dr Špirić, present ministers, deputy ministers, representatives of the international community and you from the media who have come to accompany the final phase of the discussion of Dr Spiric's decision on the replacement of Minister Sadović. I, therefore, welcome the arrival of representatives Rajić and Šarab and Minister Vidović. To conclude that we currently have four persons from the Bosniak Club, four from the Croatian Club, four from each club, four representatives from each club. So we have a quorum and we can make a full decision. Mr. Tihić and Dr. Ivanić were justified. I think Dr. Ljubić gave his justice through the service. For today's session, which we have called upon in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within the shortest period of business allowed, it was proposed by the Consensus of the College of the House of Peoples of the Agenda with only one point, that is: 1. Confirmation of the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to replace the BiH Security Minister and the deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Tarik Sadović. As according to our Rules of Procedure, this agenda is determined by consensus and given all previous actions the public and our House has been informed of, therefore, we are not discussing the proposed agenda. We have no parliamentary questions here, no minutes from last session, that's what we'll have at our next session. And before I open a debate on this agenda point, I will be free to give myself my word and bring you into the debate and explain why I called this session for today. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, the chairman and ministers and deputy ministers, representatives of the international community and the gentlemen of the media who follow our work today, I warmly welcome you and allow me, I feel a special need to explain why we are holding today's session of the House of Peoples with this agenda of confirmation of Dr Špirić's decision on the replacement of the honourable minister, Mr Sadović. The reason for me is outrageous, this reason 2 can hardly happen in some or any democratic parliaments in the world. Here's why I find it that way. The Council of Ministers, therefore fully responsible, does not respect the Council of Ministers' Law, the Council of Ministers does not respect the Constitution as defined by the parliamentary assembly of BiH. First, the decision to replace Minister Sadovic's chairman of the Council of Ministers, Dr Špirić, who made 17. Seven. In 2009, he delivered only to the House of Representatives, on the same day he made the Change Decision and sent it to the House of Representatives for confirmation. Furthermore, on that day, the House of Nations did not receive an identical decision to confirm. The House of Representatives confirms shift 22. The 7th and the media have announced that the minister has been removed, as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly confirmed it. So, one very incorrect and inaccurate information, whether it's deliberate or it's ignorant of constitutional and legal provisions and legal provisions of the Council of Ministers Act, so I wouldn't comment on it now. Furthermore, I, in person 23., so the next day after the House of Representatives confirmed Dr Spiric's decision on the replacement of Minister Sadović, and we had the House of Peoples – signed the act, sent it to Dr Špirić and demanded that he send the House of Peoples a decision on the replacement of Minister Sadović to confirm because we had a session of the House, and the next day followed a session of the Parliamentary Assembly, which means both homes, and we had the opportunity to end this procedure in those two days so that we would not have to call each other today or later – so, as another Constitution clearly precise home to show about this matter that the House of Nations had to be manifested and the sea and will be manifested today. The silence, the talks, the opposition to the delivery of that decision, the refusal to deliver that decision to Mr Tihić on a multiple call to the Council of Ministers and personally to Dr Špirić did not bear fruit all the way here – I said, 28, today it is 30. - two days ago. That's why I called this session today, because the legal shift of the minister or deputy minister is procedurally implemented if the change decision is confirmed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which means both at home, and it does not take effect when one and the other is confirmed, but when it is announced in "The Official Messenger of BiH", even if Dr Špirić's decision states that it takes effect when the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is confirmed. We will do our best to confirm this decision today – I think there is no reason for a different decision in this house – to send the House of Peoples already today "To the Official Messenger of BiH" this decision on the announcement to get, therefore, the legal basis for Dr Špirić to appoint a new minister and send it for confirmation, and this legal confirmation (because the procedural errors will not be) to the House of Representatives whose authority is excluded from the confirmation of the entire meeting of the Council of Ministers or individual Ministers or his deputy. This Regulation shall enter The Council of Ministers Act should be observed in parallel with the intervention or amendment of that same article by the High Representative, Mr Miroslav Lajčak, of 19. Ten. In 2009, when it referred to the total amendments to the Council of Ministers Act and to Article 15, where it clearly removed any analogy in the interpretation of Article 10. The Council of Ministers Act, which is prescribed by the Constitution, which gives authority to only the House of Representatives confirm the appointment of the Minister, but not the change, or resolution. In Article 15 of the amendment, the High Representative says "if the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH takes a decision to confirm the replacement of the minister in accordance with paragraph (1) of this article", (in paragraph (1) of Article 15, it states "that the shift may be made by 3 ministers and that it confirms the House of Representatives of the new minister", "the Deputy Minister will temporarily carry out the duties of that minister during the period between the date of adoption of that decision on the certificate and the day when the newly appointed minister takes office, in accordance with the procedure provided for by this law". In the same way, he confirmed that this is the competence of the Parliamentary Assembly in paragraph (4), as the High Representative referred to his amendments with two new paragraphs in Article 15, which until then we have two paragraphs and therefore added to its decision paragraph (3) and paragraph (4). These changes were mainly applied in the way of deciding when the minister was removed, when he was not voting, to whom the vote belongs, etc. And not to go any further into this decision, but I wanted to get in touch. So Article 15 is not just two items, for those who did not read carefully, it has two other items... imposed by the High Representative. So I'm undermining, so there was no need to say by analogy what is called and replaced. Because if that were the case, these items I have now read would not have been defined by the High Representative, but would have been removed if the Parliamentary Assembly had confirmed the shifts and this would have been defined differently. That would be one reason. And the other reason why this would not come here would be in the Council of Ministers' decision itself, because I would not say 'the decision takes effect by confirming this decision'. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The decisions are 'by the Parliamentary Assembly of I'll tell you this too, please, to make things clear, because of the media that are watching this and not thinking the House of Peoples is late there, he didn't do it in time, so now during the summer, the House of Peoples is being convened. No, we have very principledly followed one activity that took place, where the House of Peoples was abandoned, minimized, humiliated, simple executive power did not respect the legislative authority and two-camerality of our Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I was therefore prepared to seek judicial protection for the preservation of the dignity of our home and the violation of the Council of Ministers' Law and the violation of the BiH Constitution. Because for those who know less and do not enter constitutional matter – even though our Constitution is not a bulky reading, there are 12 articles in all – I will only tell you that the constitutional authority of the House of Representatives is the appointment of the Council of Ministers and Deputy Ministers by the Constitution, and that is indisputable for the House of Peoples. The constitutional authority of the House of Nations is, among other things, vital national interest to state, what the Constitutional Court decides, and other differences in the powers of the two homes are missing, everything else is in the power of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. That is why, to be trusted in all of this, when the shifts of two deputy ministers, ministers, deputy defence minister and deputy minister of communication, transport etc., Mr Crnadak and Mr. Poljašević also made an act to Dr. Špirić with a request to deliver a decision on the replacement of two deputy ministers, it was 13. 5. I have animated the College of the House of Peoples and the College of the House of Nations has unanimously decided to ask the Council of Ministers to decide on the replacement of these two deputies so that the House of Nations can confirm them. It's an act of 13. 5. who has left with a quote in a request that I have signed: that the chairman of the Council of Ministers may initiate a procedure for the replacement of Ministers and Deputy Ministers (point), and if the Parliamentary Assembly adopts a decision to confirm the replacement of the Minister or Deputy Minister, the Chair of the Council of Ministers shall be required in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 10 of this Act. Article 10 states that this is the jurisdiction of the new person of the House of Representatives, so he is obliged to appoint a new minister, i.e. Deputy, in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 10 of this Act. Gentlemen, 13. 5. When he left, therefore, my request to the Council of Ministers' Chairman had not occurred that someone would link the story that the House of Peoples had awakened Mr Sadović's media story, which is quite accidentally compatible with our thinking. We are therefore convinced that it is the responsibility of the Parliamentary Assembly for Trades, because these are different positions: appoint, resign, and shift. A change is not a voluntary act of those who change; those who resign - it is their will. That is probably why the Parliamentary Assembly is competent to decide on this reluctant act when someone is moving someone from a certain function, whether he is a minister or a deputy, a deputy minister, and there is therefore an indisputable responsibility of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. May my dear friend, Dr Špirić, forgive me, but these are principled, procedural constitutional and legal matters where I simply, as the chairman of this house, protect the dignity of this house and I want to discuss the act that has been adopted individually, not by the Council of Ministers, but by the individual Dr Špirić, in accordance with the legal powers. I believe that after today's explained reason why the House of Nations did not want to wait, nor did the House of Representatives send, such as, when it comes to the legal procedure, the adoption of certain acts where we gentlemen agreed: first pass the procedure laid down by law in the Zastpunic House, deliver it to the House of Peoples. So, because we are looking at the law that comes from the House of Representatives, the act that comes from the House of Representatives, from the aspect of our constitutional authority whether it is legal, whether it touches the vital interests of any people. So here are the clubs of the people, not the clubs of the political options. We protect vital national interests, it's our constitutional authority. And if an act had come from the House of Representatives, it wouldn't have obliged us to put it on the agenda. He didn't come because they knew the gentlemen of the House of Representatives had to come to us an individual act, the individual will of the chairman of the Council of Ministers at the House of Peoples. However, he took the argument, he probably thought about it and Dr Špirić and, after persistent calls to carry out that obligation and deliver the act to the House of Nations, it came so two days ago and I didn't wait, so as they say in class, I didn't honor it, so someone wouldn't say that the House of Nations was the one who obstructed. No, no, he just enforces his legality and preserves his dignity, preserves the dignity of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I immediately consulted with the College members and scheduled a session today. Thank you, therefore, gentlemen of MPs, for having responded and for having the opportunity to discuss today in order to allow Dr Špirić to proceed procedurally, so without violating the legal standards, after today's and today's decision, it will be a decision and closed process in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, so that he can do his part of the work legally until the end. And I pray that this no longer happens, so I ask the Council of Ministers that this is no longer happening and that our home is no longer being bypassed or humiliated. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate now, and no one will be denied the right to speak on this subject. The MPs have the advantage. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić, please. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5458	Here I want to express my protest for calling a session of the House back-to-back, as the people would say. I still, regardless of the detailed explanation of the chairman of what's legal, what's under the Constitution, which isn't, I still have a big dilemma about whether we should make that decision. Because what if we don't? Then this whole thing was for nothing. So, I don't think this should have happened, and that's why I'm going to be abstention from voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5459	Thank you very much, Mr. Ibrahimpašić. Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5460	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, esteemed ministers, therefore, I will deliver my personal opinion on today's agenda. It is not disputed that there are reasons for Mr Sadović's replacement as security minister and that there are several reasons for the shift. To say the basics: if a minister's shift requires his party, then it is quite normal and logical to support it, or perhaps another reason, which is the departure of my distinguished friend, Mr. Tarik Sadović, to Lyon, without the consent of the Council of Ministers, at least that's how we get to know here and the demand to suspend the investigation, that is to suspend actions related to Voluntary Street and the criminal enterprise that took place during the attack on that column. I will now look back on what the esteemed Ilija Filipović said, chairman of the Council of Ministers and the reasoning that...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5461	Fortunately, I'm not the chairman of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5462	The chairman of the House of Peoples, related to the shift and reasoning and the reasons he cited? I don't think the reasons that are stated are principled until the end. Namely, if this letter has been sent and the fact that it was sent in May when it was requested to hold a House session on the shifts of Deputy Ministers Crnadko and Mr. Pivašević, then I believe that we should have held this session. So, we should have made the same situation that was today and made known about those shifts, as it was normal for us to hold a session and plead when Mr. Ljubić was resolved and when he was appointed to his place as our dear colleague. So, I don't think the House of Nations has been in principle in these situations and this is the situation, in my opinion, which is due to legal uncertainty, because the fact is that 6 is exactly what is stated in Article 15, but the fact is that Article 10 clearly states what the procedure of appointment is. And since the world is forever and ever since it has been appointed, it has been resolved by a procedure that is the reverse procedure of appointment. So, regardless of these reasons stated by the Honorable Chairman, making the difference between some cases in resolution – therefore, the solution is a resolution, whether it came as a consequence of a shift or as a consequence of another way – I believe that there are certain inconsistencies in today's session and its appointment, there are some ambiguities. Well, in my opinion, that's why she's scheduled in this way, back-to-back, quick. But again, my vote at today's session will not be disputed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5463	I have to react, so I have to replicate to my dear colleague Šarab and explain some things to him. So, I'd like things to be read all the way or you didn't listen to me very carefully. They're completely different states, appointment positions, resignations, one death, God Bog any of the officials, ministers of the Council of Ministers, I call no one's death, and shifts. Please, these different states are strictly defined and certainly not analogies from the appointment, so in the same way as the appointment procedure goes, I'm going to try you, not only in terms of the argument, here I took the Constitution into my hand. This Regulation shall enter into The constitution, it says, 'The Presidency appoints the chairman of the Council of Ministers', you see, 'which will assume the duty after the confirmation by the House of Representatives', and there is nothing disputed there. "The chairman will be appointed by the foreign minister, the foreign trade minister and other ministers, if necessary, who will take office as confirmed in the House of Representatives." This is where we speak in the Constitution, to finish, only about confirmation. In the same article on confirmation of appointments... Constitution V 4. you have under 'c') the Council of Ministers is obliged to resign (so it does not think, it is an imperial norm). When, in what case? If at any time 'Parliamentary Assembly votes no confidence'. And mistrust means being replaced by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Ministers. Since the Constitution has not been defined individually for the Minister and the Deputy Ministers, it is then in Article 10. The Council of Ministers Act, therefore, is a positioning constitutional norm I have read to you in Article 15 of Article 15 of the Law on the Council of Ministers. You even mentioned your resignation. The resignation shall be in the exclusive jurisdiction of the person who resigns, so that is his personal act and shall be decided only by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. When he accepts his resignation, he shall proceed in the procedure of proposing a new person and this shall be subject to Article V 4. The Constitution, it is an indisputable matter, i.e. Article 10. The Council of Ministers Act, please read that article as well. And here, given that it is a complete Council of Ministers in Article V 4.c) that I have read, the law has elaborated this in Article 15 of the two paragraphs, and then the High Representative added two more paragraphs and eventually defined and the vote of those people who come in this way to the Council of Ministers. So, and I'm still obliged to say one thing, we didn't, I did, and I am grateful to the College of the People's House that he accepted the act in the fifth month towards the Council of Ministers to Dr Špirić to deliver a decision on the replacement of two deputies. That decision has never been delivered to this day. I don't explain it at all, I haven't entered it, it's possible I would never have mentioned it if it hadn't happened, and this case where one home was skipped, neglected, and procedurally, therefore an illegal possibility was given to appoint a new minister of security without the confirmation of the replacement of the previous home. I'm sorry, there's our desire that no one neglects House 7 as an equal home to the House of Representatives in these matters. We didn't get the act, which is why I didn't call a meeting of the House of Peoples about the shifts of two of the deputy ministers mentioned in the two ministries. Thank you very much. Here, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5464	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, you've given us now an interpretation of a norm and I would really accept it with all due respect to you that you're the competent authority to give that interpretation, but you're not the competent authority to give the interpretation of the norm. So the interpretation of the norm gives someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5465	I have to give you the replica again. I'll do it from where I'm sitting. I just read it, I didn't interpret it. I've read the norm from the Council of Ministers' Law and I've read you the norms of the Constitution. Still, one more thing to tell you, you're a fellow lawyer and you need to understand me. You see, the standards of the Council of Ministers Act may be unconstitutional, but as such, the Council of Ministers and all of us must respect and implement them until someone relevant determines that they are contrary to the Constitution. You as a lawyer know that. So, I'm holding on to it. I don't want to replicate to anyone anymore. Mr. Rajić answered for the word, so Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5466	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we've gone completely wrong, we've gone completely wrong, we're creating an unnecessary charge, and we're trying to politicize or dramatize something that doesn't have a single objective reason. So, I tried to follow the reasoning that the chairman of this House gave as a reason why he decided to call the House of Nations session with this agenda in the week when they began the annual vacations of the Parliamentary Assembly and, if I understood them correctly, I would try to re-integrate a little to factor out these reasons for which we began to create noise. In my opinion, it's really unnecessary. So, it is not the first time, Bog gave it the last time, that in the BiH Parliament as a whole and in this house we read the clashing of legal norms and different interpretations of the same norms from different legal experts. So, in this country, I have argued before, so the claim is flat-rate, unfortunately, I can neither quantify nor qualify it, except in memory, that every third law is approximately in BiH that is brought against the constitution: either there is no constitutional basis or is opposed to constitutional norm and spirit of the Constitution. 8 Unfortunately, there is no one in this country to question it, nor is there time nor will, so, for example, it is derived from the general competence that the Council of Ministers adopts, proposes the law, extracts the authority of a particular resolution ministry to regulate issues with which there is no mild touch point. For example, what does the Ministry of Civil Affairs have to do with education, sport and culture – as much as I have to do with music – but here it is happening in BiH. So it's just so much that one review is made that this isn't the first case that we look very differently and interpret legal norms from constitutionals and so forth. So here is the question of the constitutional and legal jurisdiction of this home and the ambiguity, i.e. logic, of the depraved logic that exists here. It is clear that the Constitution has set out the position and way of elections, i.e. the confirmation of the Council of Ministers, it is not disputed. It is clear that Article 10 discusses the exclusive jurisdiction of the House of Representatives in the confirmation of the Council of Ministers. But it is also clear as a day that Article 15 determines the competence of the Parliamentary Assembly, which means both homes in resolution, regardless of the person. If it's a natural death, whether it's a resignation, or if it's a shift, it's the jurisdiction of both homes. It is not a good excuse (for example, Mr. Šaraba, colleague of Šaraba, colleague Ibrahimpašić)...that we have not earlier, more vigorously defended the position of this house, so we have missed some questions similar to this without our intervention. If we have said that from today on we will defend the position and dignity of this home, I think we are obliged to defend it for our own sake, because of the BiH institutions, because of the reputation of the legislative body in general, and then we should say today that there is no more that is not in the jurisdiction of this home without coming to this home. So I think there's a logic here that connects the constitution to Article 10 and Article 15. The law is depraved. It would be natural to think that the one who has the power to appoint, has the authority and resolve. So there is logic and probably the Council of Ministers' behaviour is based on that logic. But logic is not good, because the law is ill-conceived, so Articles 10 and 15 clash with each other. Article 15 obliges the Council of Ministers to seek consent to a resolution on any basis of the Ministers and Deputy Ministers and of this House. So, unlike some colleagues, I believe that Mr Filipović acted absolutely in accordance with his powers and responsibilities. Second of all, I mentioned the dignity of the House. We are all witnessing that we and our colleagues from the House of Representatives often try to underestimate and classify us in such a way as to say that they are the direct result of the political will of the voting body, (colonel Rančić, I would listen to you if you spoke, thank you very much), when they say that they are the result of political will, and we are indirectly chosen. We're all MPs, we're, so I'm saying in linguistic terms that we're MPs, we represent someone. In this case, we represent the people from which we came, they represent their electoral units, or citizens, but as they say, but agreeing to the House of Peoples as others, as the upper home but a smaller home by concept, treats itself as something that is secondary – I am against it and I will fight as long as I am here that home has dignity and dignity equal to the House of Representatives. The third question, I consider and suggest as a conclusion, Mr. Chairman, that in today's debate we adopt a conclusion that will require the authenticity of the interpretation Mr. Šaraba spoke of when he objected to you that you took the right to interpret. I didn't realize that, I realized that you reminded us of the provision and read the norm to request authentic interpretations and correlations between Article 10 and Article 15. The Council of Ministers Act and, where necessary, 9 to clean up the text, to remove these doubts, or to say that one home is competent or not, or that they are both competent. That this doubt is very elegant in the shortest possible way to remove it. In that sense, I would ask: At what point did Mr Špirić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, evaluate to explain to the representatives of this house who led him and the Council of Ministers not to ask for an indication of this home in this particular case and in some earlier? And now I will return to the fundamental question why we met today at the agenda point to confirm the Council of Ministers' decision to replace Minister Sadović. For me, there are formal and essential reasons. The formal reasons are also contained in the fact that, in addition to the fact that the House of Representatives has made a decision, that it has been made in public as if it were a final decision, that it is executive, that it is open space for the appointment of a new minister, but Minister Sadović himself – if I have registered well, if I am not well, I apologize to Mr Sadović and you can correct it immediately – said that he is considered a minister until his fate is adequately decided by this house. So, if that's the case, it's formally another reason more for the intervention that he made chairman of the House today. As for the essential reasons, I will remain only for two findings.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5467	Please keep the press a little quiet, speaker deconcentration.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5468	It is not known to me, if any of my colleagues were known, I would like them to say that any body, starting from the Council of Ministers to the Parliamentary Assembly in its entirety and homes, gave assessments and qualifications of the contribution of the work, the neradije and the failure of Minister Sadović so that it would be the basis for our decision-making. I don't have a document like that, and in this sphere of speculation, I'm not going to get into the calculations. I will remain as a representative of another formal and essential law which has a party which, when elected by Minister Sadović at the start of the minister in this portfolio, I will support her right to also withdraw and resolve this minister, which in this case is done here. In that sense, I will make myself clear as a representative to support the SDA request that went through the Council of Ministers and this decision by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and there is no personal relationship with Mr Sadović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5469	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Mr. Ljubičić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5470	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. 10 Gentlemen Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I have come forward for one reason to try to shorten this debate today and return to the agenda point. I thank Mr Filipović for this explanation and for me that is enough reason why we are called today. It's a message at the same time, so it's not the first time that this home is, we've heard from Mr. Rajić, so sometimes this house is neglected by some other questions, so let's just say this is a message, so if there's any legal uncertainty that we can eliminate in the next period, we try to eliminate it, and we just don't come into these situations and that someone can use the situation so that this home can be... I accept that this is an equal home to the House of Representatives and should be treated as such. On the other hand, I respect and respect different thoughts about this today. For me, the reasons are enough for those we have received and in the proposal for this decision taking into account the comments so far, so this fact that the House of Representatives has completed one part of this procedure. I respect the reasons of the SDA, meaning where they applied for Mr Sadović's resolution, and for me it's all enough for us to simply finish this job today and let's get back to this agenda point, simply so that Mr Sadovic knows definitely his status, meaning that there is no dilemma, after all, and that the Council of Ministers and Mr Špirić as chairman of the Council of Ministers goes further into the procedure, means that there is no dilemma about the completion of this procedure. So I'd like to ask you, and that means my basic report, the reason I'm reporting is: let's get back to the agenda point and end this procedure today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5471	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubičić. Mr. Jović and I will provide an opportunity, therefore, if Dr. Špirić and Minister Sadović so wish, please. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5472	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear and esteemed fellow envoys, representatives of the Council of Ministers and all of you present today at this session, I would like to express my satisfaction and congratulate our College of the House of Peoples for acting in this way, and it is no wonder that today we have so much time on why now and why this meeting was called, is it a year or a half ago in the same benches that we decided to support BiH on its European path? To think about Europe is to respect the law. And if we came here today in a position, which I am very disappointed with, to face in one single word and to seek interpretation of the legal or constitutional interpretation in which it stands if the Parliamentary Assembly – for whom, the one who knows 30 letters, what should be interpreted here. I would also like to express on my part and criticise as chairman of the Constitutional Commission that I no longer engaged in this problem and insisted and supported the College in order to protect the dignity of the House of Nations. What is written on paper, like legalists and lawmakers, we need to respect and respect. Where we see that in practice it shows a bad side we can also change, but until we change 11 it must be respected. I will remind my colleagues: the constitutional Hrvat have the right to use their language in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5473	We're getting out of the agenda. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5474	I'm sorry. The Constitution does not say County, and we have a position today that I cannot use my word from my own language. Why? Because that's what the Constitution says. Well, dear gentlemen, this constitution states that the Parliamentary Assembly, so let us respect that the Parliamentary Assembly consists of two homes, that one home has made a decision, that the other is not. It is no longer time to elaborate, and I would need why it is so and in the Constitution and I do not believe that there will be a change of attitude that the Parliamentary Assembly makes a decision on shifts as opposed to appointments. And it's not nonses any. Secondly, I also want to say today, and that is the question of what we are gathered for. I'm so sorry it came to this. I would love, loving a man according to his moral and ethnic principles, that every man knowingly does his job and contributes to the community. However, I will only remind you of a few months ago. We had a situation that only because someone was young, smart, honest, doing consciously their job, only a few months ago, and people were in the position of being in The Hague doing their whole job in office for a young, smart, European-oriented man – the work door was closed. I would therefore like and pray in future work, Mr. Minister, think about people, because where a man finds himself always thinking about what happens to me if I do bad work.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5475	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Mrs. Majkić, more, and then, I think, that it would be good to hear from Minister Sadović very briefly, and then let the last word give the chairman of the Council of Ministers. How about a schedule like that? Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5476	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, the honored guests, I was just afraid that today's session would pass in interpreting the procedure that was absolutely clear to me... and here I think we've lost a lot of time, but if we lost that time to explain some things that weren't clear to everyone, then we're on the right track. Today's agenda requires saying something about it. We all know that the SDA presidency recently made a decision on the initiative, in fact, for the resolution of Minister Sadović. It's necessary, but sometimes it's not enough: the reason that can be for the SDA, not 12 has to be for me. So, as a man, I was trying to analyze the reasons why I should raise my hand for the shift of Minister Sadović. I've been thinking about where the depth of his guilt is, as long as it reaches and what he's actually like a man in that place: what he didn't do, and he had to. So I'm... just a few, not getting into it and not pretending to be able to count everything. But, let's say, his fault for paralyzing the BiH security system because he made bad co-operation with the security agencies, the Border Police and the Parliamentary Assembly itself: there are rare times when we saw Minister Sadović at our home sessions, rare moments when we saw him at the Commission's defence and security sessions, are rare moments when we could ask him an appropriate question and get an answer. So these are the things that are concentrated as a guilt sent to Minister Sadović. He is guilty of serious conflicts between the Ministry of Security and other security agencies. Recently, the director of the Federal Police Administration publicly criticised Minister Sadović's work, said, "The Ministry of Security has failed, disorganised and is not clear to whom it suits at all, waiting two years for the minister to invite me to a meeting." That someone from elsewhere said that, but that's what the director of the Federal Police Administration said, and that says a lot more about the work and co-operation between security institutions in BiH than anything else. It is his fault that he has not given the committee responsible a large number of answers to our efforts for several years, practically, since coming to this assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly we are looking for a response to what are the biggest security challenges in this country and what is the state of security since its arrival. It is his fault that this ministry has been questioned to be associated with mujahidins, the most recent arrest of a Sirijac, Iračanin and Alžirac man who lived illegally and as such marked a threat to the country's national security. Arresting foreign citizens and bringing them into the Immigration Centre, Mr Sadović said it was against the interests of Bošnjak. ... As a security minister, he didn't care if it was against the interest of other peoples who live here. In my opinion, I find his exceptional fault for supporting Islamization bh. through the strengthening of the Wahhabi movement, which he was directly supporting. Mr Sadović laughs and thinks that I am wrong, but you will find a large number of people who confirm it, and this laugh of yours shows how you work with the Parliamentary Assembly and why you do not deserve a different answer from what is expected after this session. But to be even more systematic, it is best to talk about how Minister Sadović worked: it is best to see statistics on the work of the ministry, and to get information on how much and how many colleges have so far been held with the director of SIPA, Border Police, Foreign Service, Interpol, how many meetings were held with entity MUPs, the number of assistance services provided to police agencies, the number of professional trainings organised by this ministry. There's no information that could say more than this statistic I've listed. Also, his responsibility for losing more than a year on BiH's European path and stubbornly challenging the law where he proposed the Ministry of Security when he refused to accept two amendments, so that he would accept in an unusual way 10 to pass the laws, but we lost a year. Also, I can't forget the activities of this minister who tried to get 13 off the UN list as Al-Qaeda's Al-Kaida to take down Safet Durguti, an Albanac with BiH citizenship, who won after the war and war credits in BiH. So it wasn't enough to challenge this minister and withdraw from his seat, this responsible place. He is guilty, in the end, of embarrassing this country, because he has made one of the biggest scandals in post-war BiH, when he is not allowed to speak at the European Police Congress in Berlin for his inappropriate speech after which he had to leave the congress. He's guilty, that's what my people think, because he suspended the distribution of Interpol warrants for war crimes suspects and thus prevented the crimes from being punished. He is guilty... although not in order but not by the weight of his guilt, and because the Ministry of Security has cleaned up other peoples, especially representatives of the Serb people. So our club has no reason not to support this decision delivered to us by the Council of Ministers and we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5477	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. The home of the people is not a courtroom and no one is to blame for the decision of the House of Peoples, but you have the right to say as you wish. I wish you'd said I didn't like it and so on, but it's your right to say so. First I give my word to Mr. Zrn, and then Mrs. Čolo and then I have exhausted... _________(?) There's a replica in Alma. Alma's got the replica. Is there a replica of you, Mrs Alma? We'll give advantage to the replica, and then we'll give the word... It's a replica for Mrs. Čolo. Here you go, Mrs. Čolo, and then the replica of Professor Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5479	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers, respected Security Ministers Mr Sadović, I today have seven times since Mrs Majkić... said he is guilty. When the court makes a verdict, he only says he's guilty once, but for what he's guilty of, he has clearly established evidence that explains in his judgment. Mrs. Majkić, what you said today, it's your classmates, I have no evidence for them, and in order to say he's guilty, you have to have proof. 14 In my opinion, the reason for replacing Minister Sadović is what my party asked for, means that he leaves that position because she has also proposed him to that position and I will therefore support this request for a shift today. If it were different, then we would discuss the work of each minister individually so today I could say about your Minister Sredoje Nović what he didn't do so that we would move towards visa liberalisation and what he didn't...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5480	Mrs. Čolo, we're not going to enter into the details of any other person we're not discussing today, the agenda is precisely precise.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5481	We are discussing the shift today because the SDA has requested that Minister Tarik Sadović, whom she has appointed be resolved from office. When SDA proposed Minister Sadović to this post, she did not say it was the best man for the Ministry of Security, she did not say that he had some experience in the area of security before she appointed him to that position, so she did not substrate credible evidence that he and that person could perform the post. So, I think that the right of the SDA to propose this minister is also asking for his shift and the chairman of the Council of Ministers has decided on his shift and we need to support it today. All of what you said today, I think it's a flat rate, your personal opinion, and I think it's ugly that we in this House are saying that someone did it because they didn't do it, that he did it because he didn't do it, and I really can't join your grades.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5482	Thank you very much. We have Mrs. Majkić's replica of what we heard from Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5483	First of all, Čolo, the first replica refers to the fact that I have never had an argument that the SDA has filed a motion to replace a minister is not enough argument. It may be for you, but it's not enough for me. Perhaps I wouldn't have voted if I thought Minister Sadović was a model minister, perhaps I would have voted against it. So I needed some other arguments, not just the SDA's position, so we're not acting on the SDA's attitude. Here, we think we have other arguments. Second, when I say guilty, that's my attitude. When are you going to stop commenting on something that's my point of view? I have an attitude and I have the right to take it out. You may like it or not, but he's mine, I have a right to him. So I'm not a judge, but it's my fault, and when I say guilty, it's not in the legal sense of that interpretation. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5484	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Professor Neimarlija. Replica, then behind that and Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5485	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the delegates, Mr. Minister and Deputy Minister, journalists, guests, so I, too, responded with the intention of replicating Mrs. Majkić to here are three, to say, statements. The first is immediately justified and I am grateful to the chairman, he reacted, warning the chairman that the concept of guilt is not a political category but a legal category and such a categorisation is not a place in the congregations, in the political discourse, I, of course, protest the most strongly over one such characterization of something that is subject to a completely different categorization, namely the definition, and the wrong categorization, wrong appointment, not only does it not help improve and correct the situation of things but it is objectively getting worse, complicated and the court, of course, has already been told whether someone is guilty or not guilty. In political discourse, the full word, or category of responsibility, is. And of course, Mrs. Majkić has every right to believe that Minister Sadović is either less responsible or more responsible for what he did or did not work, but this is the Assembly and it is not our place to find anyone guilty because the blame is held in court. One thing, with the use of this provision, therefore or category, was not only a political responsibility, Mrs. Majkić illustrated with some concrete examples of Mr. Sadović's guilt, so she mentioned among them a very vague but politically very frequent idea that is trying, as I know, to maintain as the content of some public and political opinion, which is the contribution of Minister Sadović to some Islamisation in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5486	You've come out of the box for three minutes for a replica. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5487	Just one sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5488	I can let you do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5489	I wish that Mrs. Majkić had done something on a direct violation of the law when the government building of RS was avenged, because it is a direct...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5490	Professor, it's again beyond what Mrs. Majkić said and it's not a replica, I must take your word. 16 Please no more than three minutes, so it's Mr. Rančić, and behind that I have a further discussion of Professor Zrn.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5491	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, deputy ministers, the media, of course, that dear colleague Majkić has the right to his own opinion as well as each of us in this room whether or not the delegate is, but it is important whether that opinion is correct and well-founded. Your opinion is not justified, dear colleagues, because you're saying the things you say - approximately that Mr. Minister has paralyzed the security system. All the grades you're giving, you're not making any argument about it, so they're flat-out. So, you should know that the Minister of Security under this system of security, whoever it is, or Čolak before Mr Sadović or Sadović and any subsequent minister who is the minister of security in this system, has no operational authority over the police structure in BiH. Thus, he cannot help or help them in this way. Of course, in an indirect way, a man can always help and help a man, etc., but the minister of security under the existing legal system has no authority over the SIPA and the Border Police and other police bodies. Next, you said it was bad co-operation, but you didn't say anything about it. Related to Islamization and associated with mujahedes, a colleague of Neimarlija spoke. You've been repeating your cooperation. You mentioned laws for the EU. You two co-workers with your colleagues from the Serbian People's Club just shot them down with your vote. It does not adopt amendments, Mr Sadović, but a competent commission or a House, one or the other. So you can't say that he's guilty of two amendments not being adopted, so that's why the law was broken. No, you shot them down with your vote, and it's not the only law: neither on public procurement nor on anthem and strategies and the Law on providing assistance in criminal matters, etc., etc. - I'm speaking in the order of the other ministries, it doesn't matter just this thing. And finally about national representation. Take a look at the national representation at the Ministry of Security inherited by Minister Sadović. You can't put someone else on a burden for a condition he's not responsible for. Take the day before this Council of Ministers and this Minister's office, and you'll see what national representation is. And of course, I don't argue that it should look on the '91 census and on BiH level, but also entities, cantons, municipalities and cities, so see what you've done on that part. Here's a specific example. I know that Minister Sadović also offered, several months ago, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Mr Živković from the House of Representatives to bring him to a high-ranking place, whether he was at the Ministry of Representatives or experts in the order of the Serb people, and you did not help him to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5492	Let's not spread the subject. She has Mrs. Majkić's need for another replica. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5493	As I see it, the Bošnjak klub will not support Mr Sadović's shift, because in all the discussions so far it is a support that Mr Sadović was doing the right thing. So, not a single word, I've been wrong all along, and not a single word that Mr. Sadović didn't do anything, and the SDA wrote a bunch of things about him. So it is not good to turn the session into a replica of one speech and not a word about what the subject of today’s session is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5494	Thank you very much. So, I'm asking you to refrain from replicating to replication. I have yet to announce one representative, president of the Croatian Club Mr. Branko Zrn, and I have here the chairman of the Council of Ministers who scheduled a meeting of the Council of Ministers at 1200 hours. It was hard for us to predict how long the debate would take, and I didn't expect it to last this long at the House of Peoples. But the chairman is here, the Council of Ministers' session will begin when the president arrives at the meeting, ministers must wait for the chairman. I ask Professor Zrn for his word and prepare himself, so to be as brief as possible, let Minister Sadović prepare himself for a maximum of three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5495	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Majkić, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, all present to this session, here I am always at the end of being either a pot or a lid, today a lid, so I will indeed not repeat myself, because for the last 20 minutes we are repeating ourselves, there is not much to say, and thirdly, here is a 12.00 already a machine, is scheduled a session of the Council of Ministers, respecting and the needs of the chairman-in-Office of the Council, just a few sentences, although it might be the smartest thing to give up at all from the discussion. It's not bad, we can talk now, but it's not bad that there's been an opening debate about procedures that are respected and those that aren't respected. The fact is, in my working life, I haven't learned to follow a lot of procedures because I've done such a job, and I've always considered them formalities, but here in six years, I've learned that this house has to operate according to established procedures that are actually the only norm that it has to act on for the house to function, in order for the homes, for Parliament to function. So these procedures are important. They're important, and it's a good thing we opened that story, because we finally confirmed it, it seems to me, all of us, that regardless of the indeterminates so-called. interrelationships in laws, what counterpart Rajić mentioned, even some statistical norm, here seems to me that it is not, we have a clear constitution, a clear law and a clear Rules of Procedure, and I am not sure if we need any conclusion on this background, but on the general background we really need the conclusion that by the time there is a Parliamentary Assembly of BiH stop, it ceases simply to evaluate and assess who it is first, who is second, who has what capacity. Capacity is the Parliamentary Assembly by law, according to the Constitution absolutely identical, except in two cases. The first is the appointment, the capacity that only has the House of Representatives, and the second is the call of vital national interest that has the House of Peoples. 18 Other jobs performed both home and home, in their capacity are absolutely identical. I think that once we need to underline it, write it down, and that we all have to figure it out in this house and break this story once and for all: which and for what it's worth. Secondly, when it comes to a specific case, I really don't want to, I don't want to, I don't want to be a prosecutor, I don't want to be Mr. Sadović, I don't want to be anyone else. I think we're just here... part of a procedure that's going on, that's going on, that's going on. According to this, I do not want to enter into the measure of the Council of Ministers' decision, nor the measure of the House of Representatives' Decision, because this decision is only ours and finally ours. And that's why the press asked me yesterday: will you support, or confirm the House of Representatives' Decision. I said that we will neither support nor confirm anyone's decision but that we will make a decision – whether it will be in line with another decision – thus I wanted to confirm this autonomy and autonomy of this house as the bodies of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, when it comes to today's topic (unfortunately, it is not a joy when people come and it is not cheerful, regardless of the relationships, it is not a joy when people leave; I mean, it is my human opinion and human opinion and therefore I do not really want to speak a single word specifically about Mr Sadović, although unfortunately he is today the theme of this session) – I want to essentially repeat what has already been said, and by respecting my position and my personal attitude towards this issue. It is about us as representatives in the House of Peoples and those who gave us a mandate. I'm really, I'm saying, I'm trying to be responsible for the one who gave me the mandate. No matter what I am as a representative in the House of Peoples, I would really obey and honor the decision of whoever granted me that mandate, personally. According to this, I will respect that principle today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5496	Thank you very much, Mr. Zrn. So, I will now allow, although we do not have a business status defined, to allow the address of Minister Sadović. Don't be too long, respect this circumstance I said, and I ask the MPs not to be replicated by anyone to Minister Sadović. Only Dr Špirić has the right to do so, he will get his word after Minister Sadović. Here you go, Mr. Sadović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5497	Thank you, Honorable Chairman and Chairman. Dear delegates, I hope you're not mad at me for having to interrupt your vacations and come and relieve me. Indeed, this is not about the inadequacy of a minister, although, according to the secretary of my party who is unfortunately a graduate lawyer, this is about respecting the laws and regulations. If they won't be respected by the top legislative and executive authorities of this country, then who will? That is why I express great respect for the principled position of the chairman, Mr Ilija Filipović, who has before and has now insisted on respecting the Council of Ministers' Law. 19 My shift was initiated by SDA President Sulejman Tihić, and in writing asked Minister Nikola Špirić's chairmanship to urgently initiate the procedure, which he accepted urgently and manually. In politics, I have observed all sorts of dirt, but those mentioned in the letter as reasons for the shift have surprised even my most angry political opponents. Although Mr. Tihić later unconvincedly justified himself in the 24th “dnevni Avaz” 7th, as I quote,'said the objections of certain institutions of domestic and foreign and individual' (closed quote), and did not state whether these objections at the expense of the minister were, again, 'justified or unwarranted' (closed quote), irrefutable and unconvincable, the fact that all the charges were confirmed, accepted and placed in public as his own. He doesn't really disagree with what he signed, does he? The letter does not state anywhere which institutions are domestic and foreign and which individuals have made such heavy accusations and objections. Mrs. Majkić, I respect her here, personally on her own behalf, but for these others, they seem to be nou to me. Fear is terrible, he wrote a funny journalist, he needs to be replaced by a deputy state prime minister and a security minister, and you can't even publicly say who's looking for it. That's why I'm gonna say it again. My removal is highly expected by first Deputy High Representative Rafi Gregorijan and US Ambassador to BiH Čarls Ingliš. According to this first statement, I quote, 'the Minister of Security, slightly speaking, did not do what all former foreign fighters should have done' (closed quote). Dear delegates, I assure you that any decision by the competent authorities and courts in the cases of former foreign fighters has been carried out in accordance with the law. Why hasn't anyone given evidence of counter-treatment? After the illegal extradition of the so-called so-called Algerian groups in Gvantanamo prison, indeed this country does not need similar adventures. I repeat, the ban on foreigners being expelled in a legal procedure by the competent authority or the court - will be carried out. When I took an oath in this House, I swore to honor the Constitution and the law, not to fulfill anyone's expectations. When the US court freed three BiH citizens and members of the so-called state. Algerian prison groups in Guantanamo, and the US government has asked BiH to receive them, the Ministry of Security with its law enforcement agencies has irrefutablely organised their return to co-operation with the US Embassy. The US government continues to expect BiH to receive the remaining members of the Guantanamo Algerian group, and its OHR representative and Rafi Gregorijan expect other foreign fighters to be expelled from BiH. Does this remind you of the famous story of Buridan's donkey and that donkey is BiH. 822 solutions were adopted in 2007. In 2008, 787, and in the first six months of 2009, 216 solutions. The replacement explained that the 2008 State Department's Annual Report has qualified Minister Sadović as a politician and brake of law enforcement in the field of combating terrorism. The domestic media have passed on many times, and no one has checked this out, so many times: what an unheard lie it is, you can see from the faxes of this report, where the name of Minister Sadović is not mentioned at all, but I quote, 'the insistence of RS officials to undermine the work of state-level institutions that have slowed down activities to improve operational capacities to combat terrorism and finance terrorism' (closed quote).
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5498	Your time is coming. Be good without accusing others, if you can. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5499	If I can say and read this, I'd like to ask you nicely, here. This report also made a rough mistake because Abu Hamza Alsuri is not Imad Alhusin called Abu Hamza, located at the Immigrant Center in Lukavica. Also, the report states that charges against an extremist group of five were dropped and the defendants were released from custody. The investigation into this case continues, the authors of this report say. I really don't understand how the investigation continues, if the charges are dropped. What is relevant is statistics on the number of acts of terrorism committed in BiH which is less than the EU average. The official statement by the SIPA director says: 'SiPA now has the necessary human and material-technical capacities to take all the prescribed measures and actions in order to prevent, determine and investigate the crimes of terrorism, which was not the case before Minister Sadović. I have always claimed, and I am now doing so, that the threats of terrorism in BiH should be objective. They must not be underestimated but there is no need to overestimate them. Terrorism as a means of achieving a political goal or goals is unacceptable and unacceptable. I'm horrifying him and judging him. Spilling innocent people's blood, nothing can be justified. On the other hand, people should not be persecuted just because of someone’s prejudices, for example They wear long beards and shorter pants. Under the law, everyone has to be equal, and it's a mirror of the rule of law. Dear delegates, in my address at the House of Representatives, I categorically rejected all the untruths and pranks at my expense. I cited arguments, facts and evidence that were not challenged. There's no need to repeat them again. For your information, the day after my shift at the House of Representatives, a senior EU official, whose mandate I challenged, came to me to congratulate and thank me for correct co-operation. As for the Roadmap for visa liberalisation, the largest number of obligations was made by the Ministry of Security and its agency, 132 out of 174. The total rate of fulfillment is over 90%. And if Tarik Sadović had asked and decided, the country's citizens would have a visa-free regime. The key condition is, I guess, everyone's clear, biometric passports. The issue of more effective fight against organised crime, corruption, money laundering, regulation of police and judicial records and exchanges of data concerns the entire judicial system, which we all know has an uncoordinated and fragmented legal framework, intertwined competences, under-building capacities etc. Let us recall the limited range of last year's police reform. The Police Body Coordination Directorate is responsible only for the coordination of SIPA and the Border Police, and has not yet been established. Is that my fault? Better co-operation between all police agencies and their co-operation with prosecutors is an important obligation from the Roadmap to liberalise the visa regime. The Council of Ministers formed inter-resor working groups working on the creation of new laws, strategies and action plans in the areas of fighting organised crime, corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing, regulation of telecommunications systems and databases, and I expect the job to be completed in September. I remind you that as early as spring 2007, I raised the issue of finding a state-level anti-corruption model, forming a central independent anti-corruption body, and even seven times proposed appropriate decisions to the Council of Ministers. I am not the person you should ask why 21 has been rejected for more than two years, and then accepted, as are the laws, practically in the same form proposed by the Ministry, and after a year accepted in Parliament. Only when it became clear that Serbia would get a positive assessment to meet its obligations from the Map of Ways, representatives from the RS raised barriers that have set in many places our process of meeting the obligations from the Map of Ways. Serbia was to prove that it is a factor of stability in the region and that BiH's path towards the EU depends on Serbia. Today I am a scapegoat for the Map of Ways, although I have no doubt been the most successful factor in the whole process. Also, my shift is the biggest success of the Prussian Troika, Tihić, Dodik and Čović. I have negotiated with Mr Špirić and Vrankić incomparably more than our leaders, these are facts. Although many have constantly challenged my competence, it has best shown itself in the case of the so-called so-called. Voluntary streets, where I brought down Serbia's state project in co-operation with RS. A delegation of Serbia, led by the minister of justice, the chief prosecutor, head of the Serbian Interpol, went to Lyon the other day, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5500	Can we cut that short a little bit?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5501	trying to revive a failed project and nothing worked. So much for my incompetence, which I'm proud of.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5502	You've been 10 minutes. Please, I have to interrupt. Thank you very much. We heard you. I didn't give you this much time because it was your last speech as a minister, but out of courtesy. You know, out of courtesy. Thank you very much, we heard you. And I am now asking the head of the Council of Ministers, the person who sat in both the House and the House to refer to what we heard and what the chairman of the Council of Ministers heard. Here you go, Doctor Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5503	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, delegates, distinguished guests, in fact, perhaps there is no need to speak at all and I think that she is an old folk and comes to terms of silence is gold, and the speech is silver. And, many who speak, must know that every word is true. I was the chairman of both homes, and the eternal dilemma is what lasts today. I understand that and I have to say that I appreciate both home and home and that you're actually knocking on the open door. I've never made a move to show that there is inequality between homes. I think it's a story that needs to be run elsewhere if game rules and legal projects need to be improved, and today the agenda points should be kept. 22 The whole time since this topic appeared I have avoided pouring oil on the fire and acting on the only one, it seems to me, the right way: not to make any hysteria without need, I am a man who deeply appreciates all the political parties in Parliament, and the ruling and opposition, and I think I also tried to discuss in the House of Representatives to preserve the dignity of my colleague Sadović with whom I worked for three years. And for the preservation of dignity, there must be much more effort to put up a colleague, Sadović. The way the Minister of Security talks about the leader of his political party, about his contacts with foreigners, about today seeing certain important people who help BiH, and it would be good to grow up, if we needed another kind of help – simply discrediting fellow Sadović as minister. And I think the way, so I respect the SDA, I respect its president, I don't think the reasons that they've given me the space to sit quietly and not to initiate the procedure and, believe me, I wasn't looking forward to what I had to do. I think this is a good move by the SDA and this shows how much responsibility lies in that SDA and I think this is a good lesson for others who appreciate that certain ministries are not doing well. What I don't agree with is that we share ministers on mine and yours, ours and yours. These are state ministers, regardless of being born Bošnjak, Srbin or Hrvat, and we must show this synergy within the Council of Ministers. We do as much wind as we get in the back of both homes and other political factors. Whether it's much or little – I think it can do better. And that's why I'm asking you to finish this job today. I have not disobeyed your request to create a political tape. After all, a memo came from President Nikola Špirić and I had the same dilemmas personally as others who have dilemmas, whether legal analogy is needed, and at no point would I show that two homes are not equal. So I ask you today to finish this job, to create conditions for the appointment of a new minister, to have the party propose it, to complete this procedure, and that the Council of Ministers determine what is his obligation as executive authority. Once again, I regret that my colleague Sadović used this pay phone to accuse both domestic and international, and thus put an end to it himself and, when all these reasons would not stand, his speech today says that he is unfortunately acting as an opposition MP, not a minister who should listen to what others think and seek a middle path. I'm sorry to have to say this in the end, but it's a good thing we're looking for better solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-30-0.u5504	Thank you very much, Dr. Špirić. We have agreed before: we will not replicate any of the other officials, speakers, nor ministers, nor the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I'm closing the debate. Miro, listen, I am concluding the debate and I am putting on a statement of the only item on the agenda, and that is whether we are in favour of confirming the Council of Ministers' decision to replace Ministers Sadović and Deputy Prime Minister's Council. Who is "for" such a decision by Dr Špirić? 23 I find that it is two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten and that this decision has been made and that we have the necessary entity... Is there someone “against ”? One is “against, ” 10 is“ for. ” Who is “abstained ”? He's not in the O.R., so he couldn't help himself, he's not in the hall. I thank Dr. Špirić, but I haven't concluded the session. As for the conclusion, proposed by Honorable Representative Rajić, I am obliged to read a provision from the Rules of Procedure. I don't think it's necessary to bring it. When it comes to (please a little silence, we are still in the hall, we are working, we have not concluded the session)... a credible interpretation, in Article 131 of our Rules of Procedure, reads precisely: 'The persons implementing the law and other general acts can apply for credible interpretation'. So, to them it may be unclear some norm, it may be horned, have a problem with implementation. So, in this case, why were we waiting for Dr Špirić's act? If anything is unclear to them, let those who enforce their law and other laws apply for credible interpretation. Dr. Špirić, thank you very much. I conclude today's work at the House of Nations. Thank you very much. The seat is closed at 12.28 hours.
