ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25027	Please take your seats. Gentlemen, take your seats. Please take your seats, we'll start working. Hello, Mr. Križanović, Jovičić, Huskić, Raguž, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 49th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. So, I welcome you once again, I welcome the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić, who is here today as well as as in the post of Proposer of amandman I. to the Constitution of BiH, I welcome the supervisor and deputy High Representative, Mr Gregorijan, of course I welcome the ministers, deputies, guests, the media. And, according to the service, I find that 33 MPs are present in the O.R. right now, which is a presumption of work. I, i.e. the service was declared justifiable, for health reasons, by the absence of Mr. Jovan Todorović and Mehmed Suljkanović. There were no other announcements, and I sincerely hope that during the session we will also have the presence of those who are not here at the moment. So once again, I find that there have been conjectures that we can work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As from the call – just a little attention – so, as you saw from the call and how we agreed for today's session, there is only one item of the agenda, so Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH, in the second reading. I don't think there's any need to discuss the agenda proposal, because that's what we agreed, but I don't deny the possibility if anyone else thinks. I understand there are no reports. And also, I agree... that today's session of the 49th session has 1. Amendment I to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25030	Gentlemen, the chairman, the esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the distinguished guests, I would like to warmly welcome you all. Today this House of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is doing a serious thing. For what we're doing today they're interested, first of all, in the citizens of our country. That is why I am pleased to welcome the representatives of the Brcko District government at the head of the mayor, which shows interest and, therefore, the local community of the Brcko District for the resolution of this amendment and the deputy High Representative who has put forth a lot of effort to ensure that we are all together today at the opportunity to discuss this amendment. 3 I will not read you the Amendment, the public of BiH is known during the public debate. I'll say something about the reasons for the amendment. The adoption of amandman I. to the BiH Constitution, as foreseen in the text of the proposal, is a necessary prerequisite for the end of the arbitration tribunal's jurisdiction for the dispute over the inter-entity line of demarcation in the Brcko area, in accordance with the procedure provided for by the final decision of the arbitration tribunal on the dispute over the inter-entity line of demarcation in the Brcko area. As such, amandman I. aims to implement Article 5. Annex II of the General Framework Agreement for Peace establishing arbitration for the Brcko area. The adoption of the amendment ensures that the status and authority of the Brcko District of BiH, as prescribed by the Arbitral Tribunal's decision to dispute the inter-entity line of demarcation in the Brcko area, are incorporated into the Constitution and that the BiH Constitutional Court can protect them. The amendment therefore aims to ensure the BiH Constitutional Court's jurisdiction to decide in any dispute over the protection of the finally established status and authority of the Brcko District of BiH, which may occur between one or more entities and the Brcko District of BiH or between BiH and the Brcko District of BiH under this Constitution and the arbitration tribunal decisions, and to ensure that the Brcko District Assembly has access to the Constitutional Court as well. I don't need to tell you about constitutional grounds. It is contained in Article X point 1. The BiH Constitution. And given the need to resolve the definitive status of this amendment, the Council of Ministers adopted Amendment I to the BiH Constitution at the 76th session, held on February 12th. The proposal for an amendment was set out by a majority of votes in the context of a debate led by the Council of Ministers. I want to ask you this time to do a good job for our country today and send a good message. Once again, I would like to thank the first Deputy High Representative, Mr Gregorijan, the leaders of the political parties who have had the strength to define and come to terms with the content of this amendment, the messages of the public debate and all those who wanted to send this House of Parliamentary Assembly today a good message that we are able to agree and move things around better. I am convinced, we know that the two-thirds majority that decides on constitutional change is, but I am convinced that today this House of Representatives of Parliament will have more than two-thirds, because the adoption of this constitution will not solve all the problems our country faces, but will give the incentive to move forward things and to create as much credibility as possible for both our country and the government institutions in the country. Expecting that today we will finish... the job, I thank you and I am ready, therefore, and I must stress that the technical amendment proposed by my colleague Džaferović as a supplement that he is acceptable to the Council of Ministers. He refers to the fact that... so the amendment, so the amendments... take effect eight days since the publication in the Official Messenger of BiH. I think it's quite a logical amendment and I thank my colleague Džaferović for defining him and this committee that accepted this amendment. There is therefore no other view within the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25031	I would like to thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers who, on behalf of the Proposer, has given us further clarifications and opening remarks. And now I have registered, according to custom and practice, the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25032	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, colleagues, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, representatives of the international community, Mayor of Brcko District, Your Excellency Deputy High Representative, Mr. Gregorijan, representatives of the international community, ladies and gentlemen, the media, I welcome you on behalf of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I would like to present in the next few minutes the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission which is in charge of this House to hold a public debate on this amendment and to submit a final report. As the public and you know, we organised a public debate in five BiH cities, and this was the direct participation or direct participation of the Constitutional Commission in a public debate with citizens, government and NGOs, all interested entities. The public hearing was held by sending letters to all municipal councils with the possibility of submitting proposals, opinions and suggestions to the Constitutional Legal Commission. And the public debate was held by sending all BiH citizens a public invitation to make their comments on this parliament's e-mail address and mail address. There's been a lot of comments. There have been a lot of discussions in these public debates. The Constitutional Commission has summed up this public debate and without any selection and without any triage (because none of us have the right to do so, although there are certain contents which are not in the spirit of tolerance, calm and good public debates) it has sent all of you to your e-mail addresses, and each club has been delivered and typed, so that all MPs have the opportunity or have had the opportunity to get acquainted with this material. After a public debate was held, the Constitutional Commission held a session and as a result of a public debate or their individual reflection, I don't know now, nine amendments to the Amendment I to the BiH Constitution came from the BiH Council of Ministers' proposal. The Constitutional Commission has not accepted any of the amendments. In my assessment, it is about amendments that, and if they were accepted, would not significantly affect the very text and essence of this amendment, but on the other hand, they could corrupt a painfully made political agreement within BiH on this amendment. We're not, or at least I'm in line for those who didn't want to spoil anything, if by amendment we couldn't get anything, and I'm going to talk about these amendments in the second part of my discussion when I perform as an MP. Only one amendment has been adopted which is of a technical nature, which is therefore in line with everyone he was supposed to be in agreement with. It is an amandman that must simply be an integral part of the text. The chairman of the Council of Ministers said the Council of Ministers accepts that. It is an amandman that stipulates that this amandman I. to the Constitution of BiH enters into force on the eighth day of its publication. Another technical issue is being raised here, and this issue has been discussed over the past few days,... as an amendment that regulates, among other things, the status of the Brcko District of BiH: Is it necessary to adopt some transitional norms along with this amendment regarding regulations already in force in the Brcko District of BiH. The assessment is that it is not necessary because attitude (1) of this amendment describes the status of the Brcko District of BiH. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25033	Please listen.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25034	The status of the Brcko District of BiH as prescribed by the arbitration decision, and the arbitration decision and its, or arbitration decisions, and its solutions are contained in the position (1) of Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH, so it is an assessment that the norm should not stand in this amendment. Dear ladies and gentlemen, what is the essence of amandman I. to the BiH Constitution? The essence of amandman I. to the BiH Constitution is to prescribe, above all, the status of the Brcko District of BiH and it is related exclusively to arbitration decisions. Finally, for the final decision of the arbitration tribunal and all that the supervisor is as an authorised person, according to the arbitration tribunal's decisions, worked in his term in the Brcko District of BiH. And the other part of the amandman has two attitudes that talk about future behaviours, the right of the Brcko District to appeal to the BiH Constitutional Court in a dispute with the state or with one or more entities and to speak about the right of the Brcko District Assembly to, under certain conditions, and it, in addition to already authorised entities, be the subject to appeal before the BiH Constitutional Court. To understand the essence of this amendment, I think it is necessary to say several elements of the final arbitration decision for the Brcko District of BiH. And that's why I'm going to say a few of those elements for all of us and for the public. First, the first thing that stands in the final arbitration decision for the Brcko District of BiH is this: 'At the 1995 Dayton Conference, representatives of the two state entities BiH, the Federation and RS were unable to agree which entity should belong to the Brcko area in northeastern Bosnia. Since no agreement has been reached, the Brcko area on the Dayton map has been temporarily placed under RS control, although the parties have agreed to leave the decision on the future management of the Brcko area to this International arbitration tribunal." The following thing, which is important, for the sake of the public, is this: 'Therefore, the final phase of the arbitration procedure' (I quote parts, according to my assessment, arbitration decisions), therefore, 'therefore, the final phase of the arbitration procedure is the final phase of the peace negotiations process in Dayton. To bring the process to an end, the parties, including BiH and both entities, have explicitly agreed that the arbitration decision of the chairman-in-Office will be final and binding and that the parties will apply it without delay." Crucial provisions of the arbitration decision concerning the status of the Brcko District of BiH are prescribed in paragraphs 9, 10 and 12. Arbitrary decisions. These paragraphs, I will paraphrasise them, reads: 'On the basis of the obligations undertaken by BiH and both entities with regard to the immediate implementation of the Tribunal Decision and from the day set by the supervisor, entities will be deemed to have delegated all their powers to manage the pre-war municipality of Brcko to a new constitutional multiethnic democratic government known as the Brcko District of BiH under the exclusive sovereignty of BiH. The legal effects will consist in the permanent termination of the powers of both entities in the territory of the municipality and its restoration in the form of a single administrative unit. Because, as 6 institutions that exist under BiH's sovereignty, the new government of the district will fall under the authority of BiH's joint institutions as these responsibilities are set out in the BiH Constitution. All other powers related to the management of the Brcko municipality's territory will be exercised exclusively by the District Government after the entity's delegation. After establishing a new district, its entire territory, i.e. The pre-war municipality of Brcko will become a common property (in brackets: condominium) that belongs to both entities at the same time. The RS territory will cover the entire municipality, as well as the Federation territory. However, entities will not have any authority within the Brcko District borders managed by the unitary government. The existing entity legislation will continue to apply in the territory of the District until it has been amended by the decision of the supervisor or the Assembly of the District, and the inter-entity border will exist in the District until the supervisor determines that there is no more legal importance and that it can be abolished. This decision, as is known, was made by the supervisors." And perhaps just one more provision to draw attention from the arbitration decision in which paragraph 13. 'In addition, this tribunal will continue to exist until the supervisor, with the approval of the High Representative, informs the tribunal: (a) That both entities fully comply with their obligations to support the establishment of new institutions described in this decision and (b) That these institutions function effectively and, apparently, permanently in the territory of the municipality of Brcko. Until such notice is received, the tribunal will retain the authority to amend this final decision as appropriate in the event of serious non-compliance with the provisions of an entity, for example. put the whole district under the exclusive control of another entity.' I felt that I needed to quote these provisions for the public of BiH to get a little closer to the history of the final arbitration decision for the Brcko District of BiH. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the status of the Brcko District of BiH today is constitutionally observed in Annex II of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which speaks of the interentity line of demarcation. In Annex II of the Dayton Peace Agreement, therefore, the Interentity Line Agreement and the relevant issues, Article 5, provides for arbitration for the Brcko District area and I have read the elements of this arbitration. The key or most important aspect of today's act of adoption, consideration and adoption of amandman I. to the BiH Constitution is that the Brcko District with the status as set out in the arbitration decision, the final arbitration decision of the arbitration tribunal, is finally situated in Annex IV, or in the Constitution of BiH. Who knows what it means and what it produces, and then it can draw a proper conclusion from it, and the most important thing for me as a representative in this house is that Brcko is currently operating on the basis of the Arbitrarian Decision and... which is pulling its roots from Annex II to the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Arbitrage Decision. Today and these days, elected representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, who are authorised by the citizens of BiH and the people of BiH, with 7 views of both homes, will, therefore, by their own will, the status of the Brcko District, as it is right now, sit in the Constitution of BiH. And that is the most important thing for me today's act and consideration of amandman I. to the BiH Constitution. During a public debate on this amendment, a wide variety appeared
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25035	Time, Mr. Džaferović!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25036	I can stop, and I'd like to ask you to let me finish in the next few minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25037	Go ahead, I'm just warning you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25038	Yes, thank you very much. During the debate on this amendment, various issues and various interpretations have emerged, starting with whether this amendment is finally adopted by the legally elected Parliament by the Dayton Peace Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, the Dayton Peace Agreement, in my opinion, was accepted by the Assembly of the Republic of BiH, a legal institution, at a meeting on 29 and 30 November 1995, where a delegation of the Republic of BiH, after Dayton, and before Paris, was authorised to travel to Paris and sign the Dayton Peace Agreement. The question has been raised whether this is an introduction to the division of BiH or not? I want to say that these are, in my opinion, the most common speculation, because how can it be talked about dividing BiH when it is clear from what I have said so far that this amendment actually strengthens BiH. Part of BiH's territory from a provision that speaks of arbitration, so on the dispute and from the arbitration decision enters the BiH Constitution and so on, I say, those who are authorized under the BiH Constitution. I believe that this is how BiH is strengthened, and it cannot be shared. I'll talk about the other amendments later. I want this opportunity to thank everyone who participated in this public debate. Regardless of some tones in the public debate that are not permitted for a toleranceal public debate, we can say, I think the public debate was good. I thank all those who participated in the public debate. The supervisor for Brcko, His Excellency High Representative Rafi Gregorijan participated in two debates, in Brcko and here in Sarajevo, and I thank him for that in particular. Thank you very much. I'll call you back later if there's any need. I hope I haven't broken much time. I'm done in 14 minutes. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25039	Of course, I have an understanding. It is about the chairman of the Constitutional Commission and I ask those who warned me of the Rules of Procedure that they had understanding. But here we have a replica right now. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25040	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the Council of Ministers, chairman, Mr. Suspervizor, Mayor of Brcko! First, I would like to thank Mr Špirić for having responded to our call, which was sent on 18 March 2009, to attend today's session. And I also want to say here an incorrect quote, a replica and a business intervention. Gentlemen, there is no media here today to justify any vote, support or failure to support this amendment. We had a debate in the first reading and what was said today in these 14 minutes was mostly a story in the first reading. We had a public debate in which we said everything in five cities what we had to say and all the media printed and video transmitted our views. We also had the opportunity to hear from the councilors of the Brcko District what they said about this amendment and we had the opportunity to hear from the supervisors what they said about this amendment, especially knowing that we had been negotiating for two years. Even the National Assembly gave its opinion on this amendment. There's no reason for us to lose all day convincing each other about anything about this amendment unless we want something else. Unless we want to talk here about whether the Republic of BiH signed Dejton and gave consent and opened various topics. I ask you, if you want to finish this job right now, let's get to work, let's work on what we came here to do today. Don't open up stories about the past and the future of BiH like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25041	Of course. Mr. Džaferović, is it a replica or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25042	Mr. Živković, it wasn't my intention at all, nor am I the person who doesn't know what the job is today. Today is our job to discuss the amendments. I said in the introduction that I am speaking as chairman of the Constitutional Commission and I believe it is unacceptable for me, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, not to inform you of the tones that appeared during the public debate. And nothing more. I'm not going to tell any more about it. I'll talk about the amendments and what our job is. I'm asking you to keep this in mind. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25043	Of course, there's no need to be nervous. So this is all part of the work. Let's move on. So I have a large number of applicants, we're discussing amendments, so the second is reading. Let's go in turn, Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25044	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the amendments to the Constitution of a state is indeed a solemn act and I am today feeling really solemn about the debate on the Amendment proposal for the BiH Constitution that resolves the status of the Brcko District. I have no dilemma whether or not to support and adopt this amendment today, despite everything that followed his path to this present act of debate in the second reading. On this path of this amendment, we must admit that we have listened, watched and read various comments and opinions about it from various perspectives and from various profiles of the profession, from those, with all due respect, who certainly do not know what this amendment is, without talking about its content, to experts and politicians... of world relevance. I think there are few political events in the world these days that have captured as much attention and message as this amendment on the Brcko District. This means that today's act of considering and adopting this amanadman is an important event, primarily for BiH and then beyond. There are few political events in the world around which the international community is as unique as the recommendations and calls for today's amendment to be adopted. It is rare to see shorter texts today that have been more under the light of observation such as this amendment, which again speaks of its significance and which ensures us more than the potential risk of making a mistake. Each of us 42 MPs in this House, whether a lawyer or not, would have something to add, subtract, modify or otherwise formulate from the content of this amendment, but I think this is the text that solves the essence and the first step forward at this time, which is most important at this point. The BiH Democratic People's Community and I personally support this amendment for three basic reasons. First, because that's what the Brčaci want, and they seem to be the most important thing in this story. If that's what the Brčaci want, we've learned from the letters they sent us and signed by all members of the Brcko District Assembly. Secondly, this amendment, the Brcko District of BiH, returns or, rather, puts BiH under constitutional authority. Thirdly, by resolving Brcko District's status, one neural point of around which a lot of energy has been spent on discussions of each species and now that energy would be more rational to use for some better purposes. Although I said this during the debate on the amandman in the first reading, for the sake of importance I must repeat this occasion. What does adoption of this amendment give BiH and its citizens? 10
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25045	Mr. Dolić, the debate is about amendments, second reading. I'm really asking everyone to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25046	Mr. Chairman, I'm talking about it right now, maybe in a different way.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25047	I wouldn't say, give me a little more specific about the amendments on the table, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25048	Please, let me take my time...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25049	Go ahead, but please to the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25050	This is a small but jewel-worthy step on BiH's European path. By adopting this amendment, we send such an expected message to Europe and the world that politicians and elected representatives of this country can agree and negotiate
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25051	Please listen.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25052	on issues that are important to BiH and its citizens. This is an important and encouraging step towards building mutual trust and restoring optimism among the citizens of this country who are also needed for BiH's progress. This is an important and encouraging step to continue constitutional changes and reforms in BiH, because BiH is as well-organised and set up as it is today and can be nothing but a European broom. Finally, I must say something that regularly monitors attempts to make important decisions in BiH and make little progress at least. That's when all kinds of soul-care people come along, so-called. Patriots, who label, insult and threaten anyone who thinks with their own head and who rationally approaches the issue of importance for the future of BiH and its citizens on a remote control from London, Amsterdam, Chicago or other world metropolis. I have received messages of offensive and threatening content regularly and in such occasions in order to deter me from rational and toleranceal thinking. Such messages are me and I believe some of the other MPs of this house have been given these days on their e-mails, and the language they've written is so rich in hate that man can't believe that these people live in London, Amsterdam, Stockholm and... 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25053	Are those amendments, too, Mr. Dolić?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25054	I'm at the end, the chairman, if you'll excuse me. It is not pleasant to read what is written under the title of the messages: The traitor remains a traitor, with traitors need a brief procedure, etc. but it must be made clear and said that this is not how BiH is defended or built, and as far as I'm concerned, these remote lighters can turn on their TV, and I can't. Today, the eyes of the citizens of BiH, domestic and global public are against this hall, and I am sure that today we will not allow ourselves so much comotion to stab ourselves into another auto goal. Instead of the car goals we unfortunately and too often received, citizens expect new steps on the European path from us today and in the future. Today, by adopting this amendment, we are taking such a step, and for a new step, instead of the logic of winners and losers, only rational and useful dialogue, trust and consensus. I am sure that by adopting this amendment to the BiH Constitution, we will send a message that dialogue, trust and consensus in BiH are no longer utopia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25055	Hadji Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25056	The respected chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the international community, I have tabled amendments to the Amanadman proposed. I am sorry that the Constitutional Commission has not found understanding that at least one of them adopts, especially because I heard that and on the Commission itself, that these amendments do not change anything important. And that's one of the reasons why it's worrying to me that most people can't agree to adopt something like that that doesn't change this amendment and get my vote of support for this amendment and for me to be a solemn act. But I won't be sorry if most people decide to. It is also important that what I just heard from the chairman or vice-president of Mr. Živković that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia discussed this amendment, and I think that it should have, that this is the thing that was to be discussed and that this is the thing that both the position and the opposition should agree on, and that is something where we should be unique, because the Constitution is changing. In this respect, it is also important for the RS. I am surprised that those who were in one of the previous sessions said that they were bound by the conclusions of the National Assembly. Yes, on February 25th, at the 2009 National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, conclusions were made which asked BiH MPs in the RS to propose an amendment in their position (2) to delete the words 'one or more entities', something like that did not appear on the Constitutional Commission, and what disappointed me that it was negligible for my colleagues who swore it was their obligation. But without looking at it, I, on my side and in front of the party that I'm coming to, the DNS, have proposed amendments to this plenary stage as well. 12 Amendment I, which reads: 'In the position (1) of the proposed amendment behind the word...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25057	Mr. Zorić, please, please!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25058	Instead of the entity's words, two entities, RS and the Federation of BiH should stand. The rest of the text remains the same." The reason and reason for this amendment would be in line with the BiH Constitution, because we are still changing the Constitution, we are adding a new member. Article I point 3. Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of two entities of the Federation of BiH and RS, which is also stressed in point 59. Explanations of the final arbitration decision of March 1999. The district plan is in line with the constitutional requirement that BiH consists of two entities, two and no more than two entities. The proposed amendment would achieve precision and specificity and avoid any later possible misunderstandings in interpretations. amandman II. 'In attitude (2) instead of the word multiple entities should stand both entities. Explanation as it is for amandman I.' amandman III.. 'In the position (3) of the proposed amendment, a minimum one-fifth should stand at least one-third instead of the word. The rest of the text remains the same." Should we explain in this country why one third, why even a little more than one third. But here we thought that one third is an optimum, because we are eyewitnesses that in this country everything happens when it comes to corruption, bribery and what is risky for us to go with less than one third is that people can easily bribe themselves and simply lead the way that is not in the interest of one, another entity and even BiH. We are expected to be ruled today by crime in this country. We're eyewitnesses that the courts are engulfed with reports, and also something that can suggest
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25059	Now, who's he, at somebody's cell phone, turn it off, it bothers shooting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25060	What you can see is that behind crime there can also be obligations of those people who need to do something about it. Amendment IV. "The amandman adds a position (4), which the Constitutional Court of BiH has jurisdiction in matters relating to the status and authority of the Brcko District of BiH only with the consent of both entities, RS and the Federation of BiH." 13 What made me propose this amendment? I was prompted by an explanation of the amendment to the BiH Constitution, where one sentence "Also, the amandman does not exclude the possibility that the Constitutional Court should exercise jurisdiction in matters relating to the status and authority of the Brcko District of BiH." It's something that can suggest what might happen behind this. What the public can see today is that politicians agree to one thing by 12:00, the other after 12:00, and I don't know what else we can expect behind this. That's it, I thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25061	Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25062	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, respected High Representative Mr Gregorijan, guests and representatives of the Brcko District, representatives of international organisations, NGOs, means of information and dear guests, here at the time of the preparation of this Amendment I at the Constitution of BiH, our party has neither consulted nor asked for any opinion. However, we, as a serious opposition and a party that we seriously approach to this problem, wanted to help adopt this amendment in as many votes as possible, and that is why we have amended and acted. This amendment, which has been tabled, has not been supported and I am very surprised that it has not received support from a member of the SNSD who has also had the position of the National Assembly that an amendment can go in this direction, because it is purely technical and applies, and only to that, in the future, there is no chance of not being able to interpret this Constitution, i.e. to be a different interpretation. So it doesn't happen like we have in the House of the Peoples that you can't get to the number one-fifth of the delegates in the House of the Peoples. And you know it very well, and we don't know what one fifth is, so perhaps at some point in time, it can happen, unfortunately, in one of the most written legal acts, which is the Constitution, there are certain wrong interpretations and ambiguities, and that we have to conflict over clarifications and interpretations. And the constitution should be written so that even a lowly citizen of his country understands it. But what to do? I have tried to really technically only in this sense to help and I see nothing disputed in this, that those parties and party leaders who have agreed to adopt this amendment can disrupt if this proposal through this amendment that has been given does not change the essence of this amendment, but rather just removes the insinuation of possibly wrong interpretation in the future for some time. And that's why it's added here exactly as it says, I'm not going to read this amendment, you all have it, that I'm not wasting my time, as it says in the Constitution, and I can't understand that what it says in the Constitution can't be applied to this amendment that's on the BiH Constitution right now. But what is it, it's here. I think we'll make a mistake and maybe someone will remember these words of mine at some point in time, after a year, two or three, if there's any problem with this amendment to the Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25063	Mr. Zorić, please sit down. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25064	The amendment to the Constitution could not be interpreted in a unique way, but interpreted in its own way and then created certain problems. So much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25065	Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25066	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed guests, are today some who should be here regularly at the bar and guests, respected ministers, media representatives and NGOs. I'll be a lot shorter than my colleagues. Namely, I have proposed two amendments, one of which should have been a compromise. Namely, he was supposed to settle different thoughts. One or more, both of them, like this, and then I said to delete one or more and remain that entity, which in itself meant that it could read again as it thought, or as it suits whom. Unfortunately, the Commission has found that this amendment could disrupt the compromise that has been made, which was aimed at, I repeat, making a new or making a necessary compromise in order to adopt this amendment. In view of this, of course, I do not expect this amendment to be supported today at the House session, but I must say that I have repeated it for business reasons. Since I expressed my position on this amendment at the Commission's session and also in the first reading, the public knows that I voted, I am, and also given the atmosphere that was made here today in connection with this amendment, I have decided that this above monitor is not afraid of the third color today. I have a feeling that the red paint up there today would be extra, and I'm going to use my right of business and the possibility of getting into that group that's present and not voting. So, I will be present at the vote, and I will not vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25067	Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25068	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members of the College, chaired and members of the Council of Ministers, Mr Gregorijan, colleagues and fellow MPs, let me begin by reminding you that we have announced in the first reading the amendments, that is, the Amendment of the Party for BiH, which should be in some way and our constructive contribution to the overall text, i.e. the positioning of the Brcko District in the Constitution of BiH, be done in an adequate manner. We believe that our amendment that we have renewed does not specify the basic text, the text of the basic amendment, nor does it treat the text of the basic amendment. Its purpose is above all 15 to serve as a means of possible deblockation in the event that most of the Brcko District Assembly are denied access to the Constitutional Court due to the possible failure to provide one-fifth of the signatures of each nation. So we have managed the general interest of all BiH citizens, regardless of nationality, i.e. equal treatment, i.e. the same treatment in the same way all in the procedure that is provided for this amendment. As for the other amendments that have been repeated in the procedure, we have brought our warning to the public before, i.e. the position on the non-consistency of part of the text of the basic amendment with the arbitration decision and with the Constitution of BiH. Both the BiH Constitution and the arbitration decision do not use the term no more entities, and in this sense we will also support Mr Novaković's amendment, which is heading towards exactly harmonising the text of this basic amendment with the Constitution and with the arbitration decision for Brcko. Other amendments to the BiH Party are unacceptable. Let me also take the opportunity to recommend to all my colleagues and colleagues to support these two additional amendments together with the basic text of the amendment to the Constitution adopted by the Constitutional Commission. We appreciate that these two additional amendments also make for the quality of the amendments to the Constitution with this amendment and better. Let me also give you the general position of the Party for BiH which has led us, i.e. which will define us in the final vote when it comes to this constitutional amendment. In addition to the suggestion and the invitation to improve with these two additional amendments to the basic amendment for Brcko District, I must mention that, at the very beginning, we will be in charge of voting on the basic amendment to Brcko and will finally manage as we have managed both in the course of decision-making and decision-making. How are we going to treat all this? All I have to say is that our complete situation today has been greatly relieved. Through the careful analysis that followed and after the first reading, the warnings that have somehow arrived when it comes to the basic text of this amendment for the Brcko District, the additional circumstances that occurred between the two readings, we believe that the overall arrangement around the Brcko District, in some way, removes our dilemmas and provides guarantees for the successful functioning and positioning, to say, in the perspective of the Brcko District, precisely in the spirit of the arbitration decision and access to the BiH Constitutional Court. In this regard, I think of both the amendment in question and the decision of the basic arbitration panel, the decisions and actions of the supervisors, the role of the courts, the manner of the State Department and the overall role of the United States as well as the Peace Implementation Council. Let me also thank you in this context and to all those who have been engaged in this whole procedure, especially from the international community. But let me especially thank Mr. Rafe Gregorijan for his efforts, for the energy he has invested in dealing with sometimes and the consequences of a lack of understanding in the function of trying to remove the ambiguities and fears and provide full support for everyone for the adoption of the constitutional amendment. My colleagues and colleagues, especially Brčak, I hope that with this present act we are coming out of the political debates in the Brcko District and that the next period, as well as the Brcko District and all of us, will be focused on the Brcko District's economy and, in this respect, I expect that, with all of us in BiH, we also have the support of our friends outside BiH. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25069	Zlatko Lagumdžija. I'm sorry, Mr. Lagumdžija, he has the line Momčilo Novaković. That's what the Rules of Procedure is like.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25070	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. After discussing colleague Azra who said she would support my amendment, things could get complicated, and I don't want to, and that's why I decided to withdraw this amendment. So this amendment has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25071	Thank you, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. Could I have your attention, please? Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25072	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must admit that these last discussions and replicas really encouraged me and pointed out that it was possible to get out of a situation where unfortunately in this room we found ourselves in April, or May 2006, but what is there. My discussion will be shorter, too, to support this amendment to Mr. Novaković, since he withdrew it, because we have just had a consultation here in which we have found that Novakovic's amendment that erases the words one or more and leaves the word of the entity that is single and plural, and that multiple plural, including two or more. In fact, Mr. Novaković's amendment shows... how completely pointless the situation we've come to be with or without his amendment is, in fact, the exact same situation. And this is in favour of a large number of amendments here covering some of the political obligations that have been taken over in public and in front of some other people, and therefore there is no need to speak about this amendment. I'll talk about three things, Mr. Chairman. I will refer to what the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers has said, in accordance with the agenda item, to what the President-in-Office of the Commission said in the opening statement, and the third thing is the amendments that are ahead of us. So, the subject matter of the debate is what the opening statements and amendments are. Mr Špirić's opening statement to the extent that he gave the opening statement on these amendments, to this extent, I will talk about it when I refer to his presentation. I thank Mr. Džaferović who corrected a bizarre detail. What if we had not had his intervention in the Commission which he found appropriate that, if, technically, the 17 amendments that the Council of Ministers had sent us, put that amendment in effect one day, a very precise day, i.e. eight days after the adoption. I'm surprised the Council of Ministers didn't see that coming, did they? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I didn't hear, I'm sorry. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25075	We have replicas. Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25076	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To say that there's been a delusion of something from the Constitution prescribed on this amendment, it's at least odd. Let each one draw his own conclusions. Next, I didn't know that Mr. Lagumdžija seemed to be in charge of doing this either today or in the best way, so why would he care if the SDS, in his words, were supposed to blush or not, would vote yes or no. It's kind of weird because, as far as I know, he wasn't involved in creating this amendment compared to those people who said they were involved and those people who gave this amendment... Therefore, there is no need for him to take care of our votes, let him consider how his MPs will vote, and the error certainly is not this amendment that has been tabled. I'll see that in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25077	We have another replica. Hadji Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25078	Well, my replica refers to the interpretation of the fourth amendment. I think I'm misunderstood. As far as the status and authority of the proposed amendment to the BiH Constitution is concerned, it is clear to me, and I am not concerned about the status itself. I said in the very explanation that I am concerned about the reasons why the last sentence had to be written: The amendment does not exclude the possibility for the Constitutional Court to exercise jurisdiction on issues relating to the status and authority of the Brcko District of BiH. That is why I said the fourth amendment, meaning it does not discuss, and if it discusses status to change the status of Brcko: it must be in agreement of both entities. But I had absolutely no intention of simply preventing any decision, any complaints from brčki, etc. about some solutions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25079	We're going back to the discussion. Bakir Izetbegović. Excuse me, press. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25080	Two replicas. I apologize, given these two replicas, I expected more, I was surprised that Bakir was so fast. 20 Mr. Okolić, to be very clear, I did not participate in the Prussian or the Banja Luka agreement on this, exactly, and you are right, and in creating this amendment, before it came to the Council of Ministers, I am sitting here and sitting in people who know it. And as I said in the last session, for us, this amendment that is ahead of us, with respect for the improvement of Scheferik, which was really unnecessary, is something that we were creatively involved in and said that we were willing to support something like this, but not a Banja Luka and a farce agreement in which, thank Bog, we didn't participate. And it's for the sake of precision, for the sake of clarity, and we, as we said last time, will accept this amendment, which has been offered by the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25081	Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25082	The SDA club supports and welcomes the adoption of amandman I. to the BiH Constitution, which definitely resolves the position of Brcko District in the country's constitutional structure after almost 14 years. This act will implement Article 5. Annex II of the Dayton Peace Agreement, completed the arbitration process, as well as the open possibility of completing the appointment of supervisors for Brcko. The SDA will support amandman I. in the integrated text without the proposed amendments of fellow Members. In today's decision, we will take the first significant step towards completing the implementation of the Dayton Agreement, i.e. the crossing of the so-called "Daiton Agreement". Dayton phases in the Brussels phase of BiH's transition. We hope that in the time ahead, both aneks vi and IX of the Dayton Agreement will be resolved successfully, and that Annex IV will be modified in order to allow for the self-functioning of bh. the institution and conversion of the OHR Office into the Office of the EU Special Representative for BiH. We join in thanking all who have participated in years of efforts to reach this amendment, normally, especially Dr. Rafije Gregorijan and his assistants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25083	Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25084	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I expected that after Congress there would be new winds and a different principle of problem solving, but unfortunately I must conclude that the policy of depravation, mistreatment and demeanor has continued. But that's not the subject of the agenda today, today is the subject of the amendment to the Brcko District Constitution and I'm glad that he has great support here and I would ask all those who have submitted and at this stage of the amendment to give up these amendments at this stage now, because I think we will also give this approach that we have so far. 21 I especially ask the Party for BiH to think carefully about this amendment, because I, however I read it, could not find beyond reasonable doubt that something could be blocked. You know, if you have the possibility that three members of the Presidency, if you have the possibility that three members of the College of one home, three members of the College of the Second House, 10 MPs in this House, most of them in the Brcko Assembly that doesn't involve one fifth, can start with the Constitutional Court problem, I don't see that it's beyond reasonable doubt. What kind of blockade can we talk about? If you had asked for that one-fifth to be abolished and the national consensus is not listed, I would have understood the need to adopt such an amendment and we could have discussed it. But beyond reasonable doubt put in place the possibility of setting up some blockade to order someone to raise the question before the Constitutional Court afterwards, I really can't understand. So I ask you to think again and withdraw this amendment and this amendment. As far as we from the SNSD are concerned, for this reason we have not put any amendments, we believe that this amendment complemented the BiH Constitution,... that BiH has fulfilled its international obligation and has been returned in part, meaning returned sovereignty to the domestic authorities in the Brcko District itself. At the same time, when it comes to our recommendations, whether or not I give up these recommendations will depend on your relationship with the amendments you have submitted. And, just one little suggestion, in the recommendations under a), b) and c) instead of words, it is the suggestion of the MPs that the recommendations are being made to the Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25085	Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25086	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, I would like first of all to express my satisfaction today that we are discussing constitutional changes in BiH at the House of Representatives. I think it's a good thing we still support, as far as the mood is concerned, this amendment to the BiH Constitution when it comes to the Brcko District. I think it's two important things. The first thing is that we are situationing, so we are positioning Brcko District in the BiH Constitution and it seems to me that such positioning is in the interests of the citizens of the Brcko District, thus the whole of BiH. On these fines, which are treated in the proposed amendments, I don't think we should waste much time, because in principle some people don't get any better situations, and some of us might be able to keep us away from the core of the problem. What is especially important to me today is that for the first time today we will break one taboo topic, which is the debate, that is, the change of the BiH Constitution. In that sense, I would just like to finally say this, to appeal to the House of Representatives, especially to his College, that, in accordance with the adopted initiative at the last session of this House, access to the concreteisation of the realisation and the initiative and here, I say, we expect, we want to get a concrete draft of constitutional changes at the latest 22, as promised by the Council of Ministers at its very beginning in this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25087	Of course, I believe it will be very easy to create a unique platform, and here we will see. So let's move on. Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25088	Mr. Chairman, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, the media, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is still an important day for BiH today, because for the first time, it seems to me, with a good chance of success, is doing one change and addition to the BiH Constitution. About solving and the quality of the solution, I'll just say a few words. When the Dayton Peace Agreement was signed at the end of 1995, one rather serious threat was noticed and noticed at the time that the Brcko District issue would not be resolved in one right way and that it would actually stop the implementation of the entire Peace Agreement. The United States and other countries of the international community, especially the United States, have worked very hard both through military forces and their presence and political action and through diplomatic activities that the Brcko District and its unresolved status do not address a problem that would stop the implementation and implementation of peace in BiH and regulate life in BiH under the international peace agreement. With many disadvantages and limitations, here we are today for the first time something of this solution to change, I think, still better. What is the special value of this solution is the fact that all elected representatives in the Municipal... Council, or the Brcko District Assembly, have accepted such a solution as a good solution for them and the citizens of the Brcko District. Any intervention in the current text would reduce the significant chances of the adoption of these amendments. The achievements of the proposed amendments to the amendments are not big or important even though some, at least to me, remain a little vague today, what is their purpose and purpose. Personally, as a member of the Constitutional Commission, I voted against all amendments except this amendment, which is really technical, and its author is Mr. Džaferović. My party HDZ BiH is also thinking the same way and today we will vote in favour of the amendments, in fact for the amendment by rejecting any other amendments other than Mr. Džaferović's amendments, which is of a technical nature. I think that what is particularly important is the message, it seems to me, however today, that there is a majority who is willing to support this amendment to Brcko District – is the fact that there are solutions in BiH that are acceptable for all, and that, in my view, is the greatest value of this amendment. So sometimes there seems to be no solution, but actually this is, here's proof that there's always a solution, if there's a will of those who participate in the bargaining process to find a solution. I am convinced that this is just the beginning of a change in constitutional reform and that in the next period taught by this, hopefully, 23 positive experiences today will find solutions that will be acceptable to everyone. There are solutions, this is a good example. And I, in the end, cannot thank myself on behalf of the Club to Ambassador Rafije Gregorijan, who personally did a lot of work and through his multi-year work as a supervisor in the Brcko District gave a significant contribution to this solution through the construction and definition of the Brcko District Statute and the implementation of the arbitration tribunal's decisions. So, in the end, we will support this amendment and the amandman of gospodin Džaferović, that is, the report of the Constitutional Commission, as it reads in its report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25089	Thank you. The Republic has an honourable MP, Jozo Križanović. Is he still?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25090	Well, I'm thinking, the replica was meant for Mr. Chairman. In fact, when I finished my discussion, there was one ironic remark: that this proposal for constitutional change will come very soon, because this is about the full consent of the parliamentary majority. I mean, I don't judge whether she's there or not, but she was shown in the House when the initiative was accepted. And I just referred to the need for operationalization and urgent realization of that conclusion. And in that sense, I suggested it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25091	Next up for discussion is Ambassador Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25092	Mr. Živković, ladies and gentlemen, honored representatives, honored guests, here, it is the turn that, on behalf of the parties who make up this House of Representatives and on behalf of HDZ in 1990, we say our relationship to this important issue. Before I say anything about the content of this amendment, I'll tell you why this will work today. This will succeed because regardless of the initial attempts led ultimately as a general matter, not a party. And it's very important that we all remember today. And, no matter how much of Mr. Lagumdžija's discussion I agree, I didn't replicate today, but I'll say why the April package didn't work. Not because he claims because it was not a willingness to ultimately treat it as a general matter and a matter of consensus for all who were supposed to participate then. But, well, we've all learned some lessons, I personally am and I'm willing to accept that this is evolution and that within 24 of a political process, we can all evolve to a way that by consensus we can bring solutions to the most important things. Now, at the last session of this house, we had the 1990 HDZ Initiative for a new constitution. No initiative in this matter has ever been more supportive here. I'll remind you, of the 38 who voted, she had 27 votes. We are directly elected. And we know why it wasn't adopted, I don't want to go back, it's not adopted because of the political position of one part and the way that political position can be consumed through entity voting in this House. And that's legitimate, that's procedure, and I don't want to say anything about it anymore. We were created as a party at that time, and we received support on that programme so that we could express our views in this House. And the basic programme is to advocate that this BiH country has a legitimate and democratic right to a democratic European constitution and we will not give it up. As long as this process takes, we'll see. But we are also as a constructive party aware that such a positive solution as Brcko must, if we are responsible, be recognized and supported. And this is our relationship with this issue, especially when we were witnesses, I personally attended all the discussions, in BiH saw that those most concerned, because they were citizens of Brcko and their political representatives, there was no reserve there and there was a full consensus on the issue. That's another reason why we decided to support this amendment. And the third is, in fact, the most significant one, this concludes Annex II, the final decision on arbitration for Brcko and one of the most complex issues turns into one positive message that an institutional link with BiH institutions can be opened to a final stable solution and to the Brcko District. Now, about the content of this amendment. For me, this is a proposal from the Council of Ministers, for us in a party, not any party agreement, and I think we should all treat it that way and make a contribution to it and to respect all those who have made one unquestionable contribution, and we know who these people are and what country they are. And it is certain that without it, we are aware, it would be difficult to reach the Council of Ministers in this form, and it must be respected and respected. But also on these issues we can't party points, none of us, I mean, if we're going to take a step further. And that is why we believe that the content of this amendment has been balanced and the amendments that have been tabled have not essentially been in the function of repairing the text of this amendment, but in fact in a function, in a way, of political positioning and of relation to certain earlier conclusions in relation to the obligations that individual representatives had in this regard. And that is why we believe that the content of this amendment should be accepted as it has come from the Constitutional Commission. And finally, with the real belief that today we're going to make this significant step, I have to say that Brcko is an important thing, but Brcko is not a top priority list in this country. And I invite us all, and those who have helped the solution to Brcko, to approach other priorities with the same relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25093	Momčilo Novaković, replica. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25094	I want to replicate my colleagues, Raguž. It is an absolutely incorrect finding that the HDZ Initiative in 1990 did not go away because one entity has a special position in the Constitution, but because the initiative said it was an initiative for a new constitution, and it is clearly the position of MPs, or at least one number of MPs, and even a party from the RS, that the future constitution can only be changed by constitutional amendments. So that's why the Initiative didn't get, say, my support, and I mean most colleagues from the RS. I would pray, because that's why I'm replicating it, because it's not accidentally said, of course, I have to say that if the ambitions of someone are to change in the future constitution what they are or what Mr. Raguž means now, then I'm afraid that he'll pass as well as this HDZ initiative in 1990.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25095	Replica, Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25096	So I didn't mention at all which entity it was, I was just saying which instrument in the vote was used. I didn't mention anything else, Mr. Novaković, because I knew, no, no, I knew, and I even assumed that you would react like that, and I didn't challenge any legitimate right to vote and intervene like that, not one word at all. I've only brought this into relation to the mood of more than two-thirds of the people who are directly elected, which is my right to compare and that the public knows it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25097	Replica, Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25098	Well, I'd tell Mr. Novaković that it's not okay if that thing doesn't change if you're trying to stay. Why not be in BiH, or the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, three vetoes instead of two? Or do you think it's okay to keep the rest of this way, is this Parliamentary Assembly living on the Croatian people in BiH? The Croatian people in BiH, as well as the Croatian people, fully felt Yugoslavia as a dungeon. This in BiH is worse than that. And you know it and I know it. But you are, you have your veto and you don't give it to anyone. No one wants to take your veto, but I want my veto too. And you say, it can't be changed to be three vetoes. I think that, at the very least, is incorrect or as Mr Špirić, the prime minister of BiH today, said: don't throw salt on people's wounds. To open wounds, I'd say.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25099	We've got two more applications. Nice to Kalabić you. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25100	Well, here, although my replica was intended for Mr. Ragužž but here is a fellow Zorić whose part of the discussion I can agree with, according to that folk, do not spare the horse you want to ride. If you want to get something for yourself, in which you have support, do not find out what others have. I mean, I can agree with that, but that doesn't mean that if it's taken away from us, you'll get it, too. No, I think it's the opposite approach. An explanation of our vote, which my colleague Raguž spoke of, to be correct, may be difficult for you today, colleague Raguž, to confess, but I must say to you and the others, welcome to Prud! You liked it or not, but you're in Prud right now, right now, maybe not in, that's a fact. And you don't have to run from it. We know who gave the Council of Ministers the initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25101	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25102	Just a little patience, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25103	Wait, so we know what it's like and why you're running away from that fact. If it's a good deal, what's the matter with Prud? Now, please, we've come to Parliament and all sorts of things, and there's going to be all kinds of farts and these, those, to come to Parliament. And if that's good, I'll never mind why it's in Prud or somewhere else. It's a side thing, but you don't have to run from it. If people have made a good deal, let's commend it and say, "Here, that's good." It is a fact, and many today are slowly entering this Prussian process, and they find it difficult to admit it, and it is always, when it is the first time, difficult to admit it. It'll go well with you later and it'll be all right. Mr. Raguž, it's true that you didn't happen to mention this story, but if you think it's realistic that in the policy of destroying the April package, on that same policy, you're creating an initiative so quickly for a new constitution, so it's not realistic. Here, I have to tell you it's not realistic, with all the support and need to come up with a solution, but you wear, as you are now in favour of a new constitution, you carry that part of the mortgage and I even understand that you are ready, mentioning a colleague of Lagumdžija some kind of acceptance of evolution in what was happening. If you think in the middle of a football game you can throw a water polo ball and the game continues, it's not possible, it's not possible. We all need to, I only accept that last time we learn lessons and that based on that, what we're going to say here today for international officials is what you think they want to hear, you don't need to. We know each other well here, and we know every word to whom it is and in what way it is directed. I'm going to end it, so, not wanting our constitutional right to throw away the mockery, and we're going to support that right to others. But you won't get it by taking it down. What you want for yourself by destroying,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25104	Time, Mr. Kalabić, time! 27
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25105	the destruction of other people's rights which are legitimate and legally acquired and as well as
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25106	Time, Mr. Kalabić!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25107	constitutional category.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25108	I beg you, but here, okay. Here you go, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25109	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25110	Well, the replica too.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25111	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25112	Wait a minute, wait a minute. Mr. Novaković, you've spent it. I thank Mr. Zorić. Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25113	So,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25114	Here, I'm asking you not to turn the correct course of the session into something that doesn't suit anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25115	Mr. Kalabić, I know you're in Prud, but you can't deliver that position to us, to me personally, or to my strangers, you have no argument for that. And surely that all people who know why this amendment is going to pass today know that a significant step has been made in relation to what was agreed on in Prud, we all know that. So that's the first thing. The second thing, when you are so much called for the importance of these agreements, tell me what happened in 15 days that from the agreement in Banja Luka, which was the continuity of the Prudish, to the agreement in Mostar, we had a complete fiasco from the historical agreement. The second thing, we are not the destroyers of the April Package, we in this Parliament have had clear political positions and clear 28 requirements for it to be fixed in terms of what you are declaring that we have the right, and we see essentially how you are practically acting. So that's the essence of things, and that's the right to a political struggle you, regardless of political strength and current relations, will never be able to take away. Here, it is our right, and in no word did I question your rights, nor your entity vote, nor in any way could you ever hear it from me, except in terms of adopting a new constitution that would standardise individual collective rights and make this country European. Here, let's finish that controversy sometime.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25116	I've got two more replications. Remzija Kadrić. _________(?) Business. Business intervention, Mr. Novaković. I didn't register you for signing up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25119	Please let me... help me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25120	I'd like to warn you of article 71. The Rules of Procedure, Mr Zorić, who says: 'Employee or other participants in the debate can only talk about the issue being discussed in accordance with the established agenda.' My colleagues before me talked about issues that are not on the agenda today and the chairman was obliged to warn them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25121	Thanks for the warning, I'll act like one. I have another replica. Are you, Mr. Ivanković, the same for the replica or for the discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25122	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25123	Here, I ask you to stay away from the replicas, let's get back to the debate. Mr. Kadrić, do you still want a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25124	Short, thank you. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25125	Well, there's only a short one, so there'll be two more times... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25126	Just what Mr. Kalabić said. So he said it wasn't a real time for a new constitution. I believe it is realistic for the adoption of a new constitution, because 27 MPs, so the majority in this House supported that initiative, therefore it is realistic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25127	Well, that'll show time, let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25128	Yeah, it's flat.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25129	So let's go, we're going back to the debaters. Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25130	Here, if you insist, I...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25131	I recommend. Thank you. Branko Dokić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers and other guests, I would like to say on behalf of the PDP our relationship with this amendment, the reserves we have and our final position on the issue of what it means for BiH. At first, I would like to say, given that the amendments are now in question, i.e. the debate is on amendments, that for us, this amendment by our colleagues, Jovan Hadži Mitrović, amandman ii, is acceptable and that the PDP will vote in favour of this amendment. To vote does not mean that others are not acceptable to Jovan Hadži Mitrović. The BiH Party's amendment is not acceptable to the PDP. Why do we think that... 30
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25133	Can I have your patience, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25134	Why do we think it's amandman II.? Jovan Hadži Mitrović is acceptable to us and we will vote for him? Because it removes one dilemma and inaccuracy in this amendment proposed by the Council of Ministers and which is the subject, the fundamental subject of the debate today and at the end of the vote. Namely, amandman II.. clearly defines what the BiH Constitution says: that BiH consists of two entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25135	Please listen to each other. Please, Ministers, MPs, if we need a break, we'll take a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25136	What is in this amendment to the Council of Ministers where it is said, where one mentions that if a dispute arises between one or more entities, I am fully reminded of a story by Dušan Kovačević in a book called Twenty Serb divisions. I, who want you to know yourself, strongly recommend that you read that book, and that everyone else, not only Srbin, will be recognized in it, best shows this very formulation in the Amendment for the BiH Constitution where one or more entities are spoken of. In this story, Dušan Kovačević, I have to paraphrase a few views for you in order to understand me at all what I am talking about, in this story he says that in our daily family, friendly relationships, in situations where we make large political decisions for us as important as our daily bread, the fact that 2+2=4 is least acceptable, unworthy of serious conversation, because it excludes any conversation, humiliatingly simple, obvious and accurate to contempt, offensive to the elemental dignity of finding a more creative and quality solution, does not allow opposing parties to agree and reconciliation by accepting a compromise solution. And that's why he recommends, if we're people and we're not numbers, let's be more tolerant than a dogmatically exclusive set that predetermines the result of any negotiations and agreements. And that's why it recommends that instead of hardened, occipital, exotic formulas that 2+2 is equal to 4 and just 4 we go from the suggestion that 2+2 could be 4. So here in this amendment in original form exactly stands so that 1+1 could be 2 and then leaves all of us options after, indeed, that we have something to talk about, to negotiate, to make compromises, etc. So to exclude this kind of settlement and compromise, it is therefore acceptable for the PDP and will vote in favour of this amendment, Mr. Jovan Hadži Mitrović. This does not mean that if the amendment fails, the PDP will not vote for this amendment proposed by the Council of Ministers, noting that, even if we are treated as figures, we will firmly defend the exact formula defined in Article I of Article 3. The BiH Constitution, under which BiH consists of two entities: 31 of the Federation of BiH and of the RS. And we'll do it until this document is in effect and it's changed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25137	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25138	We will do this – I did not finish, I apologize – for at least a few reasons. We believe that this is a small step that we are changing, supplementing the Constitution in one member, but a big step in creating trust in one another, in creating conditions that there are politicians in BiH who have been elected by the people doing their jobs, and that no one else is doing to them, how the other day and still, as far as I know, the current high representative in BiH said: that each of the political leaders in this country has some lawyers on the side of the white world and that they decide for us and make decisions for us. So I consider this one step towards establishing the conditions of mutual trust that we can make our own decisions and decide for ourselves. And secondly, this could be a good introduction for other changes to the BiH Constitution, in other parts. And above all, I want to make it clear here that the PDP's position: that this should be in line with BiH's top priorities, and we know that BiH's top priority is expressed at all levels, both state and entity -- creating conditions for BiH to become a member, i.e. to become a candidate, then EU member. When it comes to the Constitution, then we must do one thing, which is to bring the BiH Constitution into line with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. Any initiative that goes that way will be supported by the PDP. And if we want this trend of creating trust in each other to continue, the next step by step, and starting with things we can't delay and we can't agree on, then here's today's act of adopting this amendment to the Brcko District is so much more important. završić will, therefore, appeal, if the amendment's proposings consider this to be significant, in this sense as I have said, I would ask them, whether their amendment has passed or not, to support the original proposal of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25139	Thank you very much. I've got three more applications for discussion, I've got a replica before that. I'm asking those who intend to discuss applying so that I can plan the time we'll work on. So whoever has the intention of discussing, please report. Replica, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25140	Thank you, Chairman. I will pokušaću with careful and chosen words to say that we have not finished the debate here on the new constitution and on who has received and what support in this matter, because we have not debated the composition of this House, which consists of two-thirds of the Federation and one-third of the RS and of the fact that 32 we are discussing who sent whom out of one dungeon to another dungeon. So let's not open these discussions here, because today is neither the place nor the time. We'll open up when we talk about the Constitution. At the same time, I would like to point out that entity voting has the right to both entities. The fact that one entity doesn't use or rarely uses it is the subject of that entity. And that is why I have reported to my colleagues from the RS that in case we support amendments that came from the RS, from the National Assembly, and that our colleagues reject these amendments, what will happen if the amendment of the Party for BiH does not receive support from the RS entity here, because we are ready to vote entityally, to bring down this amendment here and thus show how we use entity voting. Isn't it better to leave our differences in the RS and try to solve them there without using these ways for inter-party deals here in the BiH Parliament? Isn't it a better solution for what I've suggested here to give up those amendments and then after that to bring, as everyone here has said, to vote for this amendment to Brcko? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25141	Replica, Sadik Ahmetović. I don't mind, I'm obliged to give my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25142	When this debate is in the RS, here I am offering to be invited, since you never call me, since I'm from the RS, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25143	We'll be back, Remzija Kadrić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25144	No, it's not. It's just a correction of the wrong quote. This isn't an entity vote. It's an entity vote. It's not an entity's right to vote entityically, but from entities, both the RS and the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25145	Any more replicas? We're going to a discussion. Šefik Džaferović, now a discussion, was the introduction as chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25146	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, this is a truly special day for all of us in BiH today. I think that's how we should treat this day, because this is the first amendment to the BiH Constitution in the fourteenth year of the implementation of the Dayton Constitution. 33 I have prepared for this opportunity, except for this discussion which is of a political nature, whether it has prepared a whole of the expertise to speak about sovereignty, then property, or dominium, or..., co-ownership, condominium or... property rights, common property, property rights and the relationship between them, because all of this is contained in this arbitration decision and in this amendment. But I won't bother you about it. I'll give it up, then. Everyone can be educated and I don't want to tell anyone here in Parliament. I have reported that as an MP, I have asked all my colleagues who have tabled amendments to give up the amendments and I am joining all those who have tabled amendments to this amendment to give up, and the Amendment of the Constitutional Commission, that is, my amendment is an integral part of the text of the Constitutional Commission Report, and it is voted together in the package with this amendment. Please give up for one simple reason, because any amendment to the proposed amendments can happen to lose someone in the parliamentary majority and ultimately be a negative result. I don't want it to be a negative result, I will, and I believe that we all want it in this room, that the result is positive and that today we finally have an amandman I. to the BiH Constitution. That's one thing. Secondly, I am deeply convinced that this amendment is in the interest of, above all, the citizens of the Brcko District of BiH, but also of all of us who live in BiH. This is not an amendment against anyone, this is an amendment for all of us living in this country, and that's how we should treat him. The Brcko District of BiH is a successful model in BiH. God Bog that the standard of all BiH citizens is as income as it is in the Brcko District of BiH. And we are today verifying a successful model, but a model that pleases all the peoples who live both in the citizens and in Brcko and in BiH and let's treat ourselves that way. And the third thing, since this is the first time to reach this range, I am convinced that until adoption, I have obtained an amendment to the BiH Constitution, I think we should learn something from this. This is a teaching matter. And, I mean, in the debate, it would be good for the College, as the leadership of this home, to study well with the relevant services everything that has been done in the procedure since the amandman came to Parliament to adopt it, or to publish it, because this is a practice that will apply in the future. What I could, with the thanks of the services of Parliament that really worked with the Secretary of the House, the Secretary of the Constitutional Commission, that it was necessary to work on further education of our services that work... Our services must follow the things that we have followed: when this amendment comes into force, what fact is it produced, should a provision be built on to maintain the state of affairs to change the rules, and then the Amendment enters? So these are all very, very important things, actually these are not formal things. That's the essential thing, because form is actually the essence, all the way up to as long as it keeps that essence. When he stops guarding that essence and becomes a burden of essence, then the form becomes a formalism. So, we need to take care of this form and here's my appeal to you sitting up at that table, because it's made, I think, a good practice, that this practice instead of doing us OHR, instead of doing us other international organisations, to take it into our own hands Parliament and its services, because it's part of our responsibility. That's it, thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25147	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. The following is reported by distinguished representative Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25148	Here, I'll start short on the report we got from the Constitutional Commission, and I'll finish with the amendments. So this is the first time I've actually read the report from this committee that it's written that an amendment of names and last names has been accepted. So last session I also had a report from the same commission where some amendments were also accepted, and it doesn't say who suggested them, it just says they were accepted. And so it is in all other committees and in all other reports. So, it says: you and these amendments have been adopted, then textually, does it say what these amendments look like? I don't know if this is historic or not, but here, I don't think you need different criteria for different representatives here in this home to use. I am sorry that just before Mr. Novaković took advantage of this call for the third time that he did not protect me from the chairman of this house, because I did not have an argument so that I invented some subject but I replicated what Mr. Novaković was saying. How can I miss the topic when this is my debate now? So, he mentioned some initiative and I replicated it to him. And then he calls me "I'm out of the picture." Imagine, master of procedure and Rules of Procedure? Look, look, you'll see that you mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25149	Please, Mr. Novaković and the others, when someone's talking, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25150	So, it's about amandman I. to the Constitution of BiH without doubt, and after me maybe my colleague Jerko will say no doubt, so without a doubt, I will support the amendment, and there is nothing disputed about it. I thank all those in the first row of the Council of Ministers for proposing such an amendment, I don't know who helped. I have seen her thank many people here, and some parties, which is not appropriate, and some agreements, which, however, is not appropriate, but I thank the Council of Ministers for proposing such an amendment and thanking everyone here for supporting this amendment. I find the second fact here somewhat controversial. The amendments are proposed, I don't know what Mr. Novaković's wish was to pass his amendment or not to pass. When he heard from a very big club that would support his amendment, he gave up on him. You see, just before I mentioned the dungeon, it's very serious for us, it's fun for others, because someone's playing with these amendments. I suggested it, so if it goes away I don't have any more resistance in one of the tsar entities, so I'm gonna give up on him, I'm playing. You can see that three of the 35 amendment promoters are from an opposition from one entity. So someone is playing with that right of theirs, and then whether it's text-written or just a letter and it's going to that point, so someone's having fun with it, while I'm seriously saying that the Hrvat in BiH are worse than in Yugoslavia, and we've seen Yugoslavia as the dungeon of the Croatian people. I'm serious, that's how I see it. Mr. Kalabić, change is not a crash, because something doesn't have to be erased with a rubber, something can be added, and that's a change. You misunderstood me very wrongly, very wrongly. I didn't say one word to wipe, crash, etc. but to write it down, and it's also a change. A new constitution? When I last spoke, I said it could contain everything that hurts or interests someone, it could absolutely have been entered into the task force and said, well, we're not going to be new, but we're going to keep this part going so you call it new or old. I think BiH needs a new constitution, a European constitution, it has both Slovenia and Croatia, and Serbia, it is not some kind of annex of an international agreement. Mr. Dokić, you've made very good mathematical comparisons: one plus one. I wish you'd made comparisons one plus one plus one, I think you understand me, so just this plus one other was the Brcko District. Now, I'm going to say something eventually, at the very end, and last time I didn't want to talk, and I didn't want to talk today, Mr. Živković. You insulted me last time as an agent and my political party. You said we were little, so now I wonder if there's a right for a woman who gave birth to seven children to tell a woman who gave birth to two children that she's not a mother. I don't think both mothers should be gynecologists so everyone here knows that. I am a member of the Croatian people, a constituent people in BiH, I want equal rights and I don't want my people to, because there are fewer people, smoke the same cigarettes or eat the same bread as some people who are bigger. I want equality in decision-making. If we're people, people, people, one plus one plus one. But here we were sent a very ugly message last time that we were small and, Malten, what you're doing and where you get the right to encourage or put in a procedure of some kind of initiative. We may be able to resist again and refer some kind of initiative to the procedure, when we have it under the Rules of Procedure right. Oh, don't, please, pour more salt into open wounds.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25151	So, I have another registered debater. Here, there's Drago Kalabić. Please, please, just two sentences. So Mr Zorić invites me to protect, or to provide the Rules of Procedure to discuss the case. Let me remind you, at Mr. Dolić's first discussion, when I warned him, the man replied that he had his 10 minutes. I ask you all to look at the transcript of this session and as people see if you were talking about the content and subject of today's session. Without your cooperation and your understanding, I really don't have the tools and ways to provide it, so I'm asking you to cooperate in the future. Look at the transcripts, everyone look, of course. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić, replica. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25152	Here, Mr. Chairman, I gave up the replica last time, and now I've hesitated, but I still have to, given some things that have been said. If nothing else, let's be clear: the party and the people are not the same. And here we need to know that. I don't know, I can't remember the discussion, and I don't need to talk about it, Mr. Živković, my colleague Zorić, but here are two MPs in this House, and you determine the size. These are the terms... that we use, if there's two large ones, here's a big one. That's what we were talking about. Not the rights of the people, of the small and the great people, and of that. And I still think, we were talking about political capacity, but here's the thing, because I was talking about it, too, and I still think so. We've been here and today, here's two years, looking for 28, and it's not that simple. So, you need to be realistic when we're talking. And when we talk about what we're talking about, I said, about strangers and people or ideas and initiatives, I'd like to see that new constitution and suggestions on behalf of the people, so let's see who won't be there for them. You know, we have a problem talking a little blindly and talking on behalf of who. Let's see who in the name of who and how to see it. Here, let's be realistic now, so you guys can do what you might do, maybe even to us, see who's gonna be against it, what you're looking for, but let's put those cards on the table once, see what that is. Now we're all talking about something, and we don't know what we're up against, or others are for, and apparently, nobody says what it is for and what it does to that story. We can't impute that as far as it goes. We still think, we're just trying to be politically realistic: everything here that has 28 votes to change the Constitution, call it whatever you want, or new, or amendments and has political weight. We are realistic to say: anything that is below 28 cannot be obtained and should be taken into account, having no intention of offending anyone, nor to belittled. But being realistic, I don't think we can be taken for harm. That's what I was talking about. I'd like to see what it's about, I'd like to see how that future is seen and what that new constitution would look like, so we'll see who, what, how he thinks about it in parties and God and in peoples who have some opinion of some peoples about proposals from that same people.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25153	Here, let's get back to the report. Replica, Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25154	Well, yeah. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Second, the third will be business.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25156	Please, please, let's make it possible, there's a Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Zorić. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25157	Well, Mr. Kalabić, you tried to tell me again that the one who gave birth to two children is not a mother. But in order for you to see this new constitution, you should have accepted the initiative to form a task force. They'd bring me the materials. But you didn't even let us, you don't want to get into the story. I said just before in my debate: you should have joined the task force and there, if you don't like something, dispute. But no, my colleague Živković said you wanted to be the first. No, they were the first in Prud, so they brought nothing. But we would have brought much before they did, only if we had formed a task force.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25158	So, here, we have one serious preparation for constitutional debates, etc., to go back to the registered debaters, here's an increase in number, of course. Jerko Ivanković. I have another debater reported. Here you go, Mr. Jerko.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25159	Dear President, colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, it would be better to have a full constitutional solution within which the District would be.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25160	He doesn't understand because he speaks at the same time as Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25161	I'm just getting into the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25162	The introduction is on the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25163	But since we don't have a constitution, we better have this amendment than we have nothing. The Brcko District is trying to build itself as a multiethnic environment in BiH. We should also be very grateful to the representatives of the United States and the rest of the international community who have invested very much in the success of Brcko as a multiethnic society. I think it's our obligation here to do at least something so Brcko can continue its successful development further, and that's the minimum that by consensus today, in one solemn way, we can adopt this amendment and thus enable the development of the Brcko District in the coming period. I, on behalf of the People's Party, work for improvement, will support this amendment without any other amendments, respecting the wish of all colleagues that they had the aim to advance this text, but here I believe that maybe that promotion could compromise its adoption. For that reason, I will not support the amendments that have been tabled. In order to shorten this debate as much as possible, I will never speak again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25164	I thank Mr Ivanković in the right way of the discussion. I've got another registered debater. Is there any other ambition to speak? Please sign in. There isn't. We have Mr. Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25165	Gentlemen, the chairman, the SNSD Club will today support this Amendment I and the Constitutional Commission Report. We have made a significant contribution to the preparation of this amendment, and everyone can understand it in their own way, but we have worked hard to do this today. And with this support, we will deny every story of our conduct in this House because those things we think are good for BiH that we are always ready to support. We had mechanisms that others were imputing to us. This may not be the happiest and best solution for the RS we come from, but if the consensus and compromise in BiH has been made on this issue, in which we have participated, we are ready today at full capacity to support it. It is the best denial and to all those who have said that we are using our rights in this House destructively, and in fact today we will show that we are using such important things in the right direction and that we are using it, in the end, for the good of BiH. During a public debate, the SNSD patiently listened and tolerated, in some ways, those discussions that had nothing to do with BiH's well-being. We also had to listen to insults, we had to listen to war calls, but we stood by it. After all, when you and those in calling for offensive content at one point were sent to the deputy high representative, then we wondered: when he could endure it, then we could do the same. The public debate, which I will not return to, has also shown some of our characteristics in BiH that do not serve our honour and are not being prepared. If this was done around one amendment, then you can imagine what it would look like to talk about a new constitution. The amendment is specific and what I can note, given that BiH, in the end, is, in the constitutional sense, specific, this amendment will probably serve young scientists... in the area of constitutional law theory that someone is probably mastering or doctoring it, since this is indeed one specificity that is not available in other countries. And this will be a contribution for them to address this issue in the coming period, because in the least case, in the constitutional and theoretical sense, it is this interesting thing and, if nothing else, we will contribute that they can, meaning that there are also these constitutional solutions in the countries and that such solutions ultimately work. 39 I won't, I'll try not to give a reason for the replica, and indeed, my colleagues, Zorić, here, I'll tell you that the SNSD Club
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25166	Well, you know there's no more replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25167	That there's no more replicas, is there? Here, indeed, means I will not challenge the replica, but I will only say that the SNSD Club is ready to consider seriously a concerted proposal in this House if it comes to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25168	Here, I don't have any more discussions. Please, just a little attention to make a deal. So, I'm closing the debate on amandman I. to the Constitution. May I have your attention, Mr. Lagumdžija, Raguž, just a moment, please? So, I conclude the debate on amandman I. to the BiH Constitution in the second reading. We'll take a break by 1:00. At 1:00, we'll vote. In the meantime, I'm asking the clubs to allow the College once again to determine some dynamics, so they can take another look at these amendments and think about the proposals that went in the direction of withdrawal. So at 13.00 is the vote here. [[PAUZA]] Please, I'm asking the club chiefs to take care of the MPs' presence. Please take your seats. Can we get started? Please take your seats, Mr. Lagundžija, Mr. Gregorijan. Please, we agreed, when giving a break, that the clubs would consider the possibility of withdrawing the amendments. Here, I'm giving you a chance to hear if something like that happened. Mr. Novaković, you were announcing something. Are you staying with that?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25170	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25171	Okay. Here, are there any other situations like this? Azra Hadžiahmetović. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25172	Thank you, Chairman. Here, let us, respecting the views of some colleagues during the discussion, and above all, the positions and calls of the Constitutional Commission to withdraw all amendments, the signatories of the amendment on behalf of the BiH Party will withdraw this amendment. Here, I'll mention that this is especially because of the Democratic Progress Party's Club of Representatives, who has invited us all to do this. And we were particularly guided by the fact that counterpart Novaković withdrew his amendment because of the Party for BiH, so here we are doing it right now because they did it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25173	Okay. Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. Please prepare for the vote. So, please, Mr. Živković, let's move on to a statement on the remaining amendments. So we have Mr. Mirko Okolić's amendment, so it's about one amendment. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Obviously, he did not get support, but for the record: six "for", 27 "against", so this amendment has no general support. I. realize gospodin Okolić's amandman hasn't been adopted. We move on to a statement on Mr Hadži Jovan Mitrović's amendments. It is therefore amendments I, II, III. and IV. Let's get the amendment for the amendment. Please prepare and vote on amandman I. Hadži Jovan Mitrović. Vote now! Just one moment, five "for", 26 "against". Mr Hadži Jovan Mitrović's amendment did not receive general support and was not adopted. Please prepare to vote on amandman II.. Mr. Hadži Jovan Mitrović. Vote now! Six “for, ” 25“ against. ” And amandman II.. Mr. Hadži Jovan Mitrović did not get the general majority and was not adopted. We're moving on to Amendment III. Mr. Hadži Jovan Mitrović. Prepare to vote. Vote now! Six “for, ” 26“ against. ” And amandman III.. Mr. Hadži Jovan Mitrović did not get the general majority and was not adopted. 41 And we are left to plead on amandman iv.e. Mr. Hadži Jovan Mitrović. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! Six “for, ” 26“ against. ” I also agree that amandman iv.e. Mr. Hadži Jovan Mitrović did not get the general majority and was not adopted. In this way we have declared ourselves on the current amendments, that is, amendments to be voted on and practically now remains to vote on amandman I. to the Constitution of BiH, of course with the Constitutional Commission Report. It is understood that we have so much experience and knowledge when it comes to procedure. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! [[APLAuz]] With 36 "for", (27 from the Federation, nine from RS), one "against", two "contained", I find that amandman I. to the BiH Constitution for Brcko received a two-thirds majority......, including support from the entity. I agree that we adopted amandman I. to the BiH Constitution. Amendment I to the Brcko, of course. I thank you when it comes to this vote. We've got work to do. Mr. Živković insists that we be asked to make a statement about his recommendation he made during the first reading, I mentioned it. I hope you know what this is about and you have it. Please, if we know, get ready when we know, prepare for the vote. Vote now! Vote now! Recommendations, recommendations, the whole. They're not amendments, they're recommendations. Nine “for, ” 21“ against. ” I understand that Mr. Živković's recommendations have not been received by the general majority and have not been accepted. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25175	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25176	Please, Mr. Dokić. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25177	...registered, I voted yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25178	Here, I find that Mr. Dokić voted for the amandman, to enter the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25179	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-25-0.u25180	And I also find Mr Zorić was "against" and not registered. Can I have your attention, please? Thank you for your cooperation. ... So, I also find that Mr. Ajanović voted "against" and was unconvinced. That's very important, I repeat. Please allow me a few sentences informatively. So, our next session is next Wednesday, we have a big agenda and I'm asking you to get ready, that the commissions that didn't do the job, by Wednesday there are five days, don't wait for Monday. I'm asking you to do it and do more work on April 1st. Thank you very much. The seat's over at 1:15.
