ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29023	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 60th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. In addition to the MPs, our regular guests were invited to the meeting, as usual, the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, chaired by members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations monitoring the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. I welcome all present messengers and guests. I also welcome media representatives. According to the service information, 31 MPs are present at the session and the session has a quorum for full work and decision-making. Dear MP Šefik Džaferović announced a little delay in the session due to commitments. Ladies and gentlemen, before moving on to the previous issues on the agenda and debate proposal, I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Beriz Belkić, who has chaired the House by 11 this month. I remind you, the usual rotation was made after eight months on September 11th. I thank you for the successful conduct of the session and correct co-operation, and I express the expectation that we will work together successfully and correctly in the coming period. At the same time, we have one previous question to resolve. Name nine. Nine. In 2009, we received a notice from the Joint Defence and Security Commission that the first BiH Parliamentary military commissioner, Mr Boško Šiljegović, was appointed. According to Article 13(2) of the Law on the Parliamentary Military Commissioner, the term of office of the first military commissioner will begin by taking an oath at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. That is why I call on Mr. Boško Šiljegović to take the solemn oath.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29026	'I declare 2
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29027	that I shall knowingly perform the duties which I have been entrusted with;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29028	that I shall knowingly perform the duties which I have been entrusted with;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29029	I respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29030	I respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29031	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29032	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29033	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29034	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29035	Congratulations. [[APLAuz]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to brief you on the changes to the earlier proposed agenda of this session, although I believe the presidents of the club at yesterday's extended college did so. The name of the 3rd item of the agenda has been changed, so now it says: 3. A report on the implementation of the Action Plan to meet the remaining obligations, as the material passed through the Council of Ministers. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, point 7. Proposal for a census law, with the opinion of the Commission. As you can see, it's a negative opinion of this committee. Point 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, with the opinion of the Commission. It's also a negative opinion. 3 Point 18. Declaration on materials referred to in points 2 and 3. (additional is darkened 3), with the extension of the 13th session of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly, 24.7.2009, with the opinion of our Joint Commission for European Integration. Point 10 has been removed from the agenda. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Missing Persons Act. The promoter was the Joint Committee on Human Rights. At the request of the Joint Commission, the College extended its opinion to 12. Ten. In 2009. The same thing happened with point 11. It is a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions. The proposal is proposed by a group of BiH MPs, and the responsible Finance and Budget Commission, which has asked for an extension of the deadline for giving an opinion, has been extended to 28. Nine. In 2009, so we'll have this law next session. Since all business assumptions have been met, new points have been added to the agenda. Under: 16. Appointing the Ombudsman to the Ombudsman Institution for Human Rights – Proposal Ad hoc of the Joint Commission for the appointment of the Ombudsman; 19. A statement on the initiative of MP Drago Kalabić 'that the House of Representatives is forming an investigative commission with the task of reviewing the allegations of the distribution of CEMT permits in the Ministry of Communications and Transport', with the Commission's opinion, which will be practical in two steps of work. Today, we would only be discussing the adoption of this initiative. If Parliament would accept the initiative, then a decision would be made to form this investigative commission which would be on the agenda next time, 30 this month. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. I ask the service to display those who sign up for the agenda on screen. I have here on my slide: Honorable MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29037	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, media representatives, on the basis of article 65 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I present to you the next proposal to supplement the agenda of the 60th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. I propose that today's agenda include a new agenda item: Consideration of conclusions on the harmfulness of the Slovenian Prime Minister Milorad Dodik's chauvinistic action. A special and additional reason for this agenda item is the last inadmissible and difficult insult of innocent victims, killed innocent victims at Markals in Sarajevo and the Tuzlan Gate. I believe it is an entirely inappropriate and non-civilising act that has only one goal in this country, which is that the flames of nationalistic and chauvinistic passion in this country continue to deepen divisions in BiH. I also fully agree with one of the leaders of the opposition in RS 4 who said a few days ago "that Dodik's statements are no longer just a problem for Milorad Dodik but also for the whole of BiH". I don't need to remind myself that yesterday, here it is, and today the convictions come from the most important international addresses, the United States, the EU, the High Representative, the General Secretariat of the Council of Europe, etc. - they all say this is completely inappropriate, that such a rude distortion of facts is unforgivable, quote, 'and that this act denies the nature of war crimes itself.' But the worst part is that they were really hurt, first of all, by the parents and family of innocent victims. I think that we, like the BiH Parliament, have an obligation before everyone else to react to these things and to fence ourselves here in the BiH Parliament from such statements. I also, whether anyone likes it or not, I would like to say that one of the main conclusions that we can make today in this agenda is that as a representative home we call on BiH High Representative Valentina Inck to resolve Milorad Dodik's duties, because he has become a factor of destabilisation, not only in BiH but, I fear, a factor of destabilisation in the region and Europe. Thank you, and I'm delivering a written proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29038	Thank you. Do you have any written material related to this agenda point and at which point of the agenda do you want your initiative to be placed?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29039	I suggest you put yourself on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29040	Which place?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29041	Well, I think he deserves to be among the first five points. However, if the College had made sure that according to the established methodology, whether the first laws and information go, then I suggest that it be the first point after the debate on the laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29042	Thank you. Next up for discussion is Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29043	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, means of information, international community, dear guests, I will be technical because I did not know under what other point but under the agenda because it was the agenda. If we could do so in the future, given that we are getting materials and laws under the same name, that when the agenda is drawn up it says which material it refers to, 5 or if it could be the number of protocols of that law or proposal. We have several laws under the same name, especially from Mr Lijanović, so we have other laws from the Council of Ministers that are under the same or similar name, and my suggestion would be to write the material in the agenda in the future and under what number it is protocold, if possible. And another suggestion. We have negotiated this once, but here we have not recently respected it: that where the amendments and amendments of the law are being made, it would be more meaningful, and it would be easier for some who want to examine it thoroughly, that in the part where the amendments and amendments of the law apply and a copy of the law for which the amendments and amendments of the law are proposed. It doesn't have to be the whole law, so it's just the part where the amendment and the addition of the law is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29044	Thank you. We'll take that as a general remark. However, do you have any comments on this agenda on any of the laws on which you are assigned, or should we take that as a general remark?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29045	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29046	Thank you. I don't have any more charges to argue with. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29047	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen from NGOs, fellow journalists, colleagues and fellow MPs, therefore, I would like to say a few words about Mr Denis Bećirović's proposal and to avoid any possible speculation at the beginning that I am putting myself in defense of this or that. I mean, to be perfectly clear, that this point, and if it were included in the agenda, we'd never reach agreement on it. And it's right at the start of a good predisposition for this session to go into a completely different negative course and not to do that job that's scheduled. I'm saying this for a number of reasons, no matter what anyone said. I see, one criminal report has been filed, another criminal report is being prepared, and, I don't know, if that's what they think BiH's judicial system can solve problems, whether they're like this or not, I'm not going into the measure of things, but in the whole situation, let the gentlemen do it. But based on just two days earlier on some statement, it seems to me to be some sort of verbal delicacy, no matter what anyone thought, whether it's an insult, whether it's good from one, another position, depends. There'll always be a side that's for, that's against. I wouldn't want us to go the wrong way today, and this session doesn't get that six epilogue that we're talking about getting rid of these things that are on our agenda. So I think that this point and the proposal of the agenda point, regardless of all the arguments, so I'm going to say open and angry, so I'm going to say on calls, even, to the high representative that he's responding to something, even, even if it did happen hypothetically, there's going to be a new one, here I'm going to say right now, Milorad Dodik, and believe me, several hundred thousand who won't... under some pressures, blackmails, and I don't know as soon as I do. And, if I don't go further into the explanation now, I suggest that my colleague Bećirović not immediately, so that we don't complicate with the beginning of the session, pull it back, because he won't get support and then I'm afraid the session will go the other way. And that doesn't mean that someone's gonna force us to leave the session, because we're never gonna do that and back off, we have no reason to. We have reason to deal with what's on the agenda in democratic procedure, and what happens two days ago is to be classified today as a point, no matter how much anyone gives it meaning, I don't think it should be done. Because, I repeat, they will not get support, regardless of how we MPs from the Serb people, especially from the SNSD, will today receive a sticked label that we have stepped in the defense of Dodik and his certain statements. Today, every innumerable statement, various, and I don't agree with 90% of those statements, no matter who they come from.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29048	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29049	So I suggest you take it off the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29050	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić. It's not. I'm closing the debate. We have two options: to wait in writing to get Mr Bećirović's proposal or (I don't know if this is what he's wearing, it's not) for you to stand up and repeat the proposal for the agenda point. She'd be in 12th place, right behind the law. Please listen carefully, given that we do not have a written proposal on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29051	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I remind you, I hope they come in writing as well. I propose, therefore, the point bearing the title: 'A consideration of the conjecture of the damages of the Slovenian Prime Minister Milorad Dodik'. As part of this point, I explained that one proposal for a conclusion, the only possible one, seems to me today in BiH, to invite the High Representative to react and the other is to invite all BiH politicians to fully respect the Dayton Peace Agreement and the BiH Constitution 7
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29052	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29053	If the point gets on the agenda, I'll deliver those two conclusions to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29054	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote to include the agenda item, as it is said, in the 12th place on the agenda. Prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 23, "against", 11, "restricted" four. Insufficient entity majority. The college has no consent. We're going to the second round. Please prepare to vote in the second round. You can vote now. "For" 23, 11 "against", four "abstained". RS 11 votes "against". This agenda item is not included in the agenda. Since there are no changes and additions to the agenda, allow me to read the agenda of today's session. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 59th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Report on the implementation of the Action Plan to meet the remaining obligations of the Roadmap for visa liberalisation for the period 15.7.2009-7.9.2009 (the material of the Council of Ministers of BiH); 4. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection Programme (second reading); 5. Proposal for an amendment II. to the Constitution of BiH – Proposed Members of the Party for BiH (first reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in BiH (first reading), with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development; 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Act (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of BiH, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law – Proposer of the Commission for Gender Equality, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act – Proposed Members of the SNSD Club, with the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission; 12. Report from the Commission from the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH (first reading); 13. Report from the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecution of the Prosecutor's Office of BiH (first reading); 14. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Competition Act; 15. Report on the financial reports carried out by BiH Radio-Television on 31.12.2008; 16. The appointment of the Ombudsman in the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina (List of Candidates Ad hoc Joint Commission for the appointment of the Ombudsman); 17. Information on measures adopted to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 18. Declaration on materials referred to in points 2 and 3 below of the 13th joint session of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly held in 24.7.2009, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on European Integration and the Proposal for Conclusions; 19. A statement on MP Drago Kalabić's initiative to "the House of Representatives forms an investigative committee tasked with reviewing allegations of the distribution of CEMT permits to the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH"; 20. Giving consent to ratification (a) Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Atomic Energy Agency, (b) Protocol between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic on the amendments to the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic on the promotion and protection of investments, (c) Protocol on the Prevention of Water Contamination Caused by Navigation, with the Framework Agreement for the Sava River Basin, (d) Protocol amending and supplementing the Agreement on Free Trade between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey. We're moving on to the realization of the adopted agenda. Point 1. 9 Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 59th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29057	I practically have no objection to the correctness of the record, but I have a kind of, so to speak, a proposal on point 9 of the amendment and addition of the Law on the Defence: where the debaters are listed to state, which was indeed,... that the need to obtain the opinion of the Ministry of Justice on the letter, i.e. the views of the assistant attorneys and the College of Attorneys. The truth is, we didn't translate it, we didn't get it translated into a conclusion, we didn't plead, but the debate highlighted this need, and as a College, we asked the Ministry of Justice for that opinion, because here she prevailed over such a situation that it was necessary to get the opinion of the Ministry of Justice on that letter. And in order to somehow, however, we would have a lead, because this was indeed so, that in this section relating to point 9 it was said that the need to obtain the opinion of the Ministry of Justice on the letter of Assistant Advocates and the position of the College of Attorneys. And, one suggestion, so everywhere where the record mentions one and the same law of two proposings, should always be placed whose law it is. We had, here's the situation: it's one of the Council of Ministers, one of the Party for BiH, and it can sometimes bring people into a dilemma whose law it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29058	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 2. Ad. 2. MPs' questions: a) Comments on answers received Answers to questions until this session were received: Milorad Živković of the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia and the Federal Ministry of Health, asked at the 58th session; Lazar Prodanović of the Directorate for Indirect Taxation, asked at the 58th session; Velimir Jukić of the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office of the Posava Canton, Orasje, Unsko-San canton, Bihać, Prosecutor's Office of BiH, Canton 10. Livno, and the District Prosecutor's Office in Bijeljina, asked 10 questions at the 58th session, and from the Council of Ministers, asked at the 48th session; Selim Bešlagić of the Council of Ministers, asked at the 57th session; Adem Huskić of the Council of Ministers, asked at the Dokić and 57th session; Mirko Okolić of the Council of Ministers, asked at the 56th session; Remzija Dolić of the Council of Ministers, asked at the 56th and 57th session; Husein Nanić of the Council of Ministers, asked at the 57th session; Denis Bećirović of the Council of Ministers, asked at the 52nd session; Branko of the Council of Ministers, asked at the Bajazit sessionJašarević Sadik Bahtić of Foreign Affairs, asked at the 58th session, on the issue of the 54th Kadrić; Bajazidnijednijednijednim uzdaj, the Minister, the Minister, the Minister of the President of the President of the President of the President of the Council of the President of the Council of the Council. I call upon those who have received answers if they have a comment on the answers delivered. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29060	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, I thank you, I also received an answer to the question I asked to the Director of the Medical Centre, KC Sarajevo, so I have two answers. The answer to the question... 'Why has the Management Board of the Agency for Safety not worked and who will be responsible, or whether or not to withdraw the conferences according to the Management Board, because there are no other Food Safety Regulations, I have received a reply from the Ministry of Foreign Trade in which they informed me of what they were doing. And what I've been up to, and I've got an answer here, says they've brought in 18 regulations, 30 advances, etc., and they've got it all on the Agency, but the Management Board hasn't been in session since 2005, and the problem is what you're going to do is start doing your job. So, the answer is actually negative, because my question is, "What are you going to do to get these acts adopted and get them to finally start working on food safety," I didn't get the answer, or I got the answer that they're powerless,... they say, we don't affect that part. The second answer I got, it's a response from the Clinical Medical Center and I have to say I'm not happy with that answer, because I haven't been given an answer on whether or not there's been a competition in the last 10 years." And the second question was, "When will these competitions be announced so that we can?"...so I will restore this question...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29061	Thank you. The next to comment on the question is Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29062	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, colleagues, respected guests, I asked a question about visa reliefs, meaning the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I got half the answer, I only got the answer from the Foreign Ministry, I didn't get it from the Council of Ministers. The foreign ministry in response says it has fulfilled all obligations under the Roadmap Action Plan for visa liberalisation. So, it's filled out everything and it's put in new... travel documents,... data in nine diplomatic and consular offices. So, it also says, a demonstration of the work of a new system of colleagues from Slovenia's MIP was carried out, and strong support was established. So, as far as the Foreign Ministry is concerned, what he says here has fulfilled all obligations. So, according to me, all he needs is a score. The Council of Ministers needs to do the remaining laws. It means putting it on the agenda, and it's up to us MPs to adopt it and see a concrete result. Thank you, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29063	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29064	I thank you, Chairman, and I wish you successful work in this upcoming period, I expect that we will do much, much to do. So, I am on my question 'to what extent do entities implement the Decision on the Constitution of the people based on the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people?',... got one half answer. So, I received – I received a letter from the Council of Ministers – a reply from the Ministry of Administration and local self-government in which they remind me of the procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the adoption of appropriate laws. So, they remind me, they write me a letter... which I actually know as well as the minister and because I was an actor of such events when it comes to the amendments to the RS Constitution. And I didn't get the Federation's answer at all. In the end, they realize that... implementation, he says, 'implementation is a comprehensive and demanding process, both from the aspect of the conditions to be implemented and from the aspect of the importance of standards in the area of the Constitution of established rights that are... in this period of affirmation'. So I didn't get a complete answer, no response from the Federation. This response sent to me by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is incomplete, irresponsible and, I think, should indeed be found here to be irresponsible, inappropriate, inadmissible to forward such answers and that, if there is no full answer, the Council of Ministers should indeed seek the addition of the answer, and in this way 12 only forward such a, such a single superficial letter – therefore, I will repeat this question and ask for full information on such a significant issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29065	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29066	Mr President, before commenting on the answer to my parliamentary question, I would like to congratulate you on your election to the House of Representatives of Parliament. But I also think that I share the opinion of all of us MPs in the House of Representatives to express our special gratitude to Mr Beriz Belkić for the really huge effort and energy he has shown for these eight months in the previous performance of this mandate. I will Vratić to my parliamentary question, to comment on the answer to the parliamentary question. My parliamentary question was addressed to the Directorate for indirect taxation, I received that answer, referring to the opening of a customs station at the Bratunac border crossing. I want to thank you for this answer. I've read it in detail, and there are certain facts that have been found, but I'm not satisfied with the overall state of affairs, so by the condition of these two border crossings, Bratunac and Skelani. In fact, the BiH Ministry of Security from this response is clear that the temporary crossing of goods, certain goods at this border crossing, has been agreed. And I believe that the Directorate for indirect taxation should do everything together with the Ministry of Security to make this border crossing functional for the crossing of certain types of goods, since the nearest border crossing in Zvornik is about 110km from Skelan, from Bratunco close to 50km, and that two interstate commissions on traffic of goods at border crossings, so the Interstate Commission of BiH and the Republic of Serbia, reach a future agreement that the traffic of these goods, which are not questionable, is being carried out more permanently than it is on 31 December this year. And also, I think that for good neighbourly relations, the two countries are of particular importance to the functionality of border crossings so that passengers and goods can cross, at least, until the moment these two countries are in a situation where they have no boundaries, not just these two, but the whole region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29067	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29068	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, dear guests! Mr. President, I wish you a successful presidency and management of the work in the next eight months, when I expect that what we may have missed a little bit and arrive on time, we will do everything we can. I got an answer to two of my questions. One question was asked half a year ago, so only six months ago, or six times the deadline was exceeded by the one prescribed for the answer to be delivered. However, rather than those questions I have not received an answer at all, I thank you for this late answer. And the question was: 'What does the Council of Ministers and Resort ministries do to speed up and complete all necessary activities: end of the project documentation, property-legislative transactions on Corridor Vc, insurance of highway building funds, operational availability of the promised reserves of approximately 400 million euros from the EBRD, the World Bank and other sources?' And the second question is, "Is the Council of Ministers a well-developed and accepted model of highway financing on Corridor Vc?" The answer is only partial, not complete. However, this here which is stated in response, I will comment. So, there are certain priorities in the course of construction and major projects have been made for some highways, some are in realisation, some are doing project documentation, and for some, I don't know what status they're in, I guess they're coming back to the very beginning, so what's already been adopted and done now as wrong, so it seems to me, new projections or new ones, I don't know, trassa, trassa, etc. So we're back to square one. About the important part of this question, which is the operational availability of reserved funds, there is no answer, and that is what is worst in this response. So, it's known that already significant funds are reserved for these purposes, I'm not going to speak precisely so I don't say wrong, but it's about a billion marks. It is also known that for all the funds reserved, it is necessary to pay the reservation, i.e. interest, because the funds are not used. BiH must pay for this and I believe that it pays neatly and that we benefit from investing these funds in the purposes for which they are reserved. We have an extra cost, because we pay for the funds that stand unused. At a time of decrease
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29069	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29070	economic and other activities when each country and the responsible government is looking for ways to and how to mitigate the consequences of such a situation and trying to move and find ways to invest funds, especially foreign investment, BiH, seems to me, working, is well-successful in blocking 14 of those funds that are intended and reserved as investments in important projects. I think there's a lot of responsibility here. Furthermore, I apologize, I will have to, however, if you allow me to comment on another important issue, which is asked a little later, and this is one phenomenon that seems to be missing in BiH at all, according to the answer to that question. And the question was, "What are the competent police agencies, prosecutors, tax administrations and all others in charge of monitoring the work of newly founded and all businesses in BiH?" In fact, it's about every few companies shutting down at the same addresses with the same capital, people, etc. is available under another name. Therefore, it is very conscious of the avoidance of payments to the state. And according to the answer that I received, and you heard in Your announcement, we all heard, that it was from several prosecutions in this country, therefore there is no such phenomenon. So in BiH, there is no such crime! I say there's too much. And that's one way to very effectively and effectively avoid paying debts to the state. The question arises who here doesn't do his job. Someone obviously doesn't do it, I don't know if he's conscious or unconsciously hiding. But this question cannot be spoken of in this way, I cannot accept such answers because they are not credible. I don't think here, I thank the prosecutions that didn't come to them, but I also believe that what they wrote is true, but it doesn't mean that they have no obligation under the applicable laws to engage themselves in investigations of these cases, especially if they get, however, and the question specifically whether there are such phenomena. First of all, the most responsible are the tax administrations and their facilities, and they, if they don't record something like that, sees all the citizens of this country, sees it everyone, just doesn't see it, seems to me, the one whose job it is, who has to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29071	Mr. Jukić, the comment was on two questions, so I let it be done for six minutes, given that the comment on one question is three. You too will be allowed. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29072	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can say that I am not satisfied with the response of the Council of Ministers or the RES, however you will, to the asked parliamentary question. I asked them, "Is a working group formed?", knowing that a working group was not formed, " whose task would be to implement the conclusions of this home", I think, "more than 3.12.2008. A year?', and the conclusions refer to the need for harmonisation of the Law on the Public TV System and the Law on Public TV Service with the Constitution of BiH and European standards and recommendations set out in the conclusion. It is only now that we get the answer that the issue of forming a task force is raised and who should be the working group. I mean, it's been a little late for almost a year, and here's a chance to point out that it really takes you to... The Council of Ministers or the relevant ministries, from which the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly relate, take this into consideration more up-to-date than has been done so far. 15 But here we now impose... one more question. As far as I was right when I set up, when I re-activated this, it also tells the fact that at the last meeting of the Committee of the Systems a few days ago in Banja Luka it was concluded, and it was unanimously, minors that existing legal solutions do not form the basis for the establishment of the Corporation and Parliament will receive requests for appropriate changes in these laws that I mentioned that we could even form a korporacija. On the other hand, the public is well-known, and I was saying this when I asked a parliamentary question, that there are asymmetrical solutions in federal law with... laws left two services and that on the basis of such different divergence solutions it is impossible to create a joint entity that needs to unite economic relations within all three public tv services. Just to remind you that in the Law on the Croatian Federation of BiH, different issues and marketing have been resolved, and some questions and taxes, then the election of members of the Management Board, and all members of the Management Board are joint Committee of the System. Therefore, if one is chosen in one way, the other on the other, their obligations and responsibilities are different, not to mention some solutions yet. At least five or six things, which I wrote in a column in the "Independent Newspaper" last Friday and who is interested in reading. So, there's an urgent need to align these laws more urgently. I'm not going to prejudge which solutions are better, they may be better in the Law on the Croatian Federation of BiH, but they need to be harmonised. So I'm using this when I got a few minutes to express,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29073	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29074	Here I am only, starting the initiative that three parliaments – the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliament and the relevant homes in entities are building a joint commission whose task will be to identify differences, and they are simply to be found, in these three laws and to find a single solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29075	Thank you. I will only say in one sentence that I am not satisfied with the answer I received and that I will repeat the question, probably, to the other ministry. (b) New parliamentary questions Please sign up for questions now. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29077	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, since I was not satisfied with the response from the Clinical Center, I ask again: 'How many of the heads of the clinic have been set for a certain time, with the calendar of their appointment for a certain time, individually by clinics for the last 10 years?' I demand an answer in writing from the Director of the Clinical Center.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29078	Are you talking about Tuzla, Sarajevo?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29079	Sarajevo, Sarajevo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29080	The Sarajevo Clinical Center. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29081	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a brief question from the Council of Ministers Chairman Nikola Špirić: 'Why did the chairman of the Council of Ministers blatantly violate the Council of Ministers' Act and not continue the procedure for the appointment of the Ministers' Security Minister and member of the Council of Ministers' College, thereby disabling the work of the Council of Ministers, without whose College it is impossible to determine the agenda of the Council of Ministers' meetings, and is this a conscious block of the Council of Ministers' work by the chairman?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29082	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29083	Thank you, Chairman. Given the statements made by BiH Presidency Chairman Željko Komšić to visit Serbian President Boris Tadić to the opština of paliti 8. Nine. In 2009, it was not in line with the intended protocol, i.e. that the envisaged procedures were not respected, in order to true truth and to calm tensions between neighbouring countries and to expand the exchange of visits with neighbouring countries, which is certainly for BiH as well as for all normal, not normal, but as well as for all other countries to work well with neighbouring countries or neighbouring countries, I ask the Foreign Ministry and the Border Police for the following answer. 17 From the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Is the visit announced through your ministry and is it in accordance with the intended protocol?’ I ask the BiH Border Police for an answer: "Are BiH border police procedures respected?"
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29084	Thank you. The next is Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29085	I thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, I would like to ask today a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which is the product of a recent event in BiH, the opening of a school in the Palace, the school "Serbia" and what followed the act. I ask the question: 'Is the school's baptism act in line with education policy in BiH? Does this act offend the feelings of children from other constitutive nations? Is this a violation of the principle of compulsory separation of school and faith? Are there regulations at the level of the BiH state that define this area? If they do not exist, why have they not been made so far, has the Minister of Civil Affairs personally attended the "Serbian" school's "Serb" baptism on the Palace and what has he done with it as a state minister on the protection of the rights and feelings of children coming from other peoples?" With a very short explanation: we know that one of the basic principles of action in BiH is that schools are separated from direct religious influence, that the OSCE and other international associations have been involved in the process of adopting regulations that define this area, and that it is evident that other peoples' feelings are being insulted in this way and that schools do not act on the principle of equal rights and opportunities for all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29086	Thank you. The next issue is Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29087	Thank you, Chairman. Here, allow me before I ask a question. It is unusual to replicate in commenting on the already received answer to the question, but I will take this opportunity to perhaps advise colleagues Dokić first that the initiative launched by the predecessors into form, in writing as provided for by the Rules of Procedure. And to mention only or to remind myself that it is not usual for 18 state laws to be brought into line with entity laws but vice versa, that the entity laws should be harmonised or brought into line with state laws. I would ask a question to the Council of Ministers, of course by means of, I suppose, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, as a matter of urgency, to provide an answer to the question by means of entity governments: 'How has the status of national parks in BiH been regulated? So, what is the legal basis, which are the competences of certain state institutions, i.e. the level of government, how are they financed, the coverage of national parks etc?' So, regulation or status that has been regulated, so the status of national parks in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29088	Thank you. I suggest, if there is any uncertainty about what Mr Dokić was saying, that this should be considered on the 15th item of the agenda when we consider the financial report of the RTV BiH, it is much more appropriate than on parliamentary issues. But here we go. Dear Ambassador Savo Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29089	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, I rarely report to you, but I would only remind you that I have asked one question about the inflow of VAT, and this applies to the economic situation in 2009 and the recession and everything that follows us. And one question that we are constantly neglecting here, (as we discuss whether the school is baptized or avenged and whether someone has crossed and crossed), means we forget what our main task is, means that we are running an economy and what the citizens are interested in, i.e. bread, employment, work and so on. But I see that there are no such initiatives and therefore I ask one very important question: 'When will the Council of Ministers and the competent committees launch a debate on the 2010 Budget Proposal? A year?' I remind you that the new year is near, that all normal civilized countries that think about their people, so they bring the budget by the end of the calendar year, and therefore all that implies later and distribution and everything else, so it comes as a order of normal moves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29090	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here, ask a question. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29091	I thank you, Chairman. There's one question and another question that I said in my comment that I was going to renew. And the first question is, "How long since 1992 has it been recorded today in the home books of BiH citizens based on naturalization, and by the municipalities?" And the second question that I said in my comment that I would restore it,...I had earlier asked it, it reads, again: 'I ask the Council of Ministers to provide me with full information on how many entities have implemented the BiH Constitutional Court's decision on the consistency of the people?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29092	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29093	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps before I read my question, although I could say it in the hallway to Mr. Nanić that (I think, here because of the ambiguity) means not institutions but construction facilities are aware. So it's not because of school, it's a construction facility, so it could've been a casino.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29094	Can we skip this?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29095	But I apologize, I say, I could have said it in the hallway like this that the question might not make sense if I said it. But okay, I'm sorry. We have adopted several reform laws here so far, among other things, the Law amending the Customs Tariff Act, which has established quotas for imports of sugar. In this regard, I ask the following parliamentary question: 'What companies have applied for the use of sugar import quotas in accordance with the amendments to the Customs Tariff Act? How much has been used since the quota was approved? What measures has the Council of Ministers taken to ensure effective control in order to prevent possible law abuse? Has the Council of Ministers called a public tender or a quota ad or has he writtenly met any interested company with changes to the law? And finally, how much damage has the budget of 20 BiH and the entity been caused so far based on the use of the benefits of that law in relation to the state that the law has not been passed?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29096	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29097	Mr. Chairman, I would like to address the parliamentary issue to the BiH Foreign Ministry. Please answer me: 'To what extent is the proportion of the national representation of diplomats in BiH's permanent missions in international organisations respected, namely: the Council of Europe, the UN, the OSCE, NATO and the EU? Please provide me with a list of diplomats in these missions in response to the question." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29098	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29099	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have three questions, two to explain, and one to deliver, means only in writing. The first question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Nikola Špirić: "What has the Council of Ministers done and what will they do to protect the status of BiH and its firms in the Republic of Serbia?" In view of... that 30 September, the extension of the deadline laid down by the Regulation amending the Regulation on the protection of property parts of enterprises whose head office in the territory of the former republics of the SFRY, the Government of Serbia, gave for the settlement of property and legal relations in these companies and after the adoption of this Regulation, the Agency for the Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia informed all enterprises in Serbia which were in the privatisation process and whose parent seat was in one of the former SFRY republics and requested that they resolve relations with their parent companies within the extended period, and that this agreement, with the consent of the Government of Serbia be approved by the court. According to me, state property holders in these companies and their management in the companies were completely independent on this issue and now there is a real danger that BiH is definitely left without this property. When I say indolent, then I again have an example of the relationship 21 to the assets of Agrokomerac in Serbia, because I know that the people of Agro-Comerca Belgrade came to the Federation government, the Federal Privatisation Agency and Agrokomerc“ and that this is not where the will to resolve this issue is not shown. Instead of the compromise agreement, an ultimate transfer of property was requested to those who destroyed and robbed and what they had at their disposal here, which, of course, the workers of Agro-Comerca Belgrade, who themselves were shareholders and former workers of Agrokomerac-Comerca, did not accept. The second question is the question of the Minister of Justice in the BiH Council: "What will the Ministry of Justice and the competent judicial institutions do after, for the sixth time, with scandalous explanations, sentenced to Hamdia Tigar, called Tigar, from Bihac, delaying the execution of a two-and-a-half year prison sentence for the committed crime of inflicting serious physical injuries and abuse of citizens of Bajić Nedžad iz Cazin?" I asked a similar question after the first three scandalous delays, and I believed that the rule of law would also function in this case, which is known to the general public in BiH. Convicted Hamdija Abdić is 18. 8th was supposed to report to a prison sentence. After the previous five delays and the established formula the night before, 17th to 18th, he got sick and reported to the Internal Department of the Hospital in Bihac. The next day, his lawyer orally informed the judge of the municipal court that his client at the hospital had requested a postponement of his sentence. Hamdija Abdić leaves the hospital within three days with a recommendation for strict hygiene and diet measures and a discontinuation of nicotine intake.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29100	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29101	Excuse me, just a minute. It is tragic on the basis of what reasons this convict manages to delay the execution of a prison sentence six times, and I am witnessing that sick people are going on board, and I even know the cases of going to prison on a stretcher or in a wheelchair. This is clearly about the intention to delay the execution of the sentence to antiquity and to mock the law, justice and the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29102	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Actually, I don't have a question, I have an initiative, and I thought the most logical thing to do was to run it within this agenda point. The initiative is "to ask the BiH Presidency to report at one of the next meetings, inform this house of BiH's relations with neighbouring countries." 22 The presidency is responsible for foreign policy, we all know that, and by my assessment of relations with neighbouring countries or with most neighbouring countries have never been worse, I would say, than the Dayton Agreement or, to be precise, since 2000. It is absolutely certain that the great credit for such a relationship with neighbouring countries is also the current BiH presidency, not at this time entering into the contribution of individual members of the presidency. I'll just give you a few examples. I, as far as I know, had nothing to do with regulating the relationship between Croatia and BiH regarding Luke Ploce. We know that during the previous term, this has been brought almost to an end, I don't know if anything has been done and it's absolutely certain that this home should be informed of what has been done, which is why it has not been done, etc. So, with Croatia, we still have open issues, and you know that again issues and borders and such are problematic. Speaking of Serbia, I think... there is even more to the current current current Open Affairs Presidency, so, among other things, issues of basic mutual communication have been raised. You know that some BiH presidency members do not have an elementary communication with the highest elected voters from the Republic of Serbia, and you should not be stressed that this is about two neighbouring countries and that it is a question of European integration when the issue is number one and priority issue from Brussels. Not to mention the fact that BiH still doesn't have an ambassador in Belgrade, and that's the topic we need to discuss here and see what it is really about, not entering ahead of time, what will be the answer. Let me remind you, some members of the Bureau have been threatening in the past few years the prime ministers of the neighbouring country to win by nose or by hand, and the culmination of all of this is what happened in the wake of the opening of a school and, fortunately, we have positive reactions from Sarajevo. So Liberation wrote that, here I quote, that he would not miss something 'if Sarajevo had been unnecessary Sarajevo hysteria about the arrival of a neighbouring country president in BiH',
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29104	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29105	And the hysteria around the school's name is really unnecessary. Did this member of the Bureau ask a question why eight or nine years ago here at Vlasic, where I pass every week, a beautiful village settlement was built, and yet, as it says in Liberation 'the land... which was inhabited almost exclusively by Srbin, a village called Bruneji called the same name one?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29106	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29107	Sultans'. To say that there has been a school called Holandija in Banja Luka for years and that no one has thought to ask the question whether the sovereignty of BiH has been compromised. I'm asking you for another half minute. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29108	Time, put it into the initiative and we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29109	All this, and hysteria, unnecessary hysteria, is best said that when someone who presents themselves as leader, hatred cloudes reason, then what Radoje Domanović wrote in 1904. Thank you very much, and in writing you will receive this initiative during the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29110	We've got another one on the case. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29111	I was, Mr. Chairman, very patient listening to this lecture by Mr. Dokić. I was, I said, very patient listening to Mr. Dokić's lecture. I would add to what he said that BiH had two proposals for ambassadors, but our neighbouring state did not accept them, probably because they are from one constituent nation. It may have been suggested by another constituent nation, possibly to be accepted. But here, so much for it. I have a very short question. I expect to get an answer that's settled. I'm asking the Council of Ministers, the Fiscal Council and the Board of Direct Taxation. The question is: "When will the distribution of funds collected by special excise duty on oil derivatives be unblocked? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29112	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We have practically fulfilled our business obligation to discuss matters for at least an hour. We're going to point 3. It's about Ad. 3. Report on the implementation of the Action Plan to meet remaining obligations from the Roadmap for visa liberalisation for the period 15. Seven. 2009 - Seven. Nine. 2009 (the Council of Ministers material) 24 Day 14. Nine. In 2009, we received this report, which was immediately delivered to you. The opinion of the Commission responsible for European integration has been given 16. Nine. In 2009. The Commission supported the report. You have that report and conclusions. I'm asking from the Council of Ministers if there's any need to explain this. There isn't. I'm opening a debate, please. Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29114	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, given the importance of this issue, I think it is necessary to draw attention to some of the accentes in this report and this overall situation in meeting the obligations. I note that we are discussing this issue at a time when every day is important. The end of September is the deadline when the report is being made, at the end of September, the last day of September is the state that will go to Brussels. It's September 16th and things really change from day to day, but it's also the fact that every day matters. That is why I think it was important that the Council of Ministers be present today, given the importance and urgency of this issue. And secondly, I am obliged to point out that the Council of Ministers discussed this report on Monday. The report came into parliamentary procedure Monday at late afternoon. We could only schedule a session yesterday and hold a session and last night this report was over, which you received today. So these are the reasons why this report came today. I think it's more important to have this report than to suffer from some procedural issues and deadlines, etc. I think it's important and useful and critical to talk about this issue, first of all, to encourage maybe engagement and all the authorities, to maybe get as much of a favourable report as possible. Given this time dimonic and this is about days, I note that the report was delivered with a final period of 7. Nine. So, the Council of Ministers discussed this on Monday 13.9, so about eight or six days after the period that passed. And the Interresor group, which technically well prepared and led at technical level, delivered the state of it, but I think it would be a good thing that the Council of Ministers on the 13th made a accompanying letter on what was in the meantime solved, what was done, where the problems were. In fact, this synthetic approach by the Council of Ministers was simply missing and the report made by the Interresor Working Group simply passed through the Council of Ministers and this moment of urgency was thus lost. And I think it was good that the Council of Ministers, when they discussed the Report, said - it was until the 7th, but by the 13th in the meantime, let's say, the draft of the Ombudsman law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia was drawn up and some other things happened in the meantime that have been resolved, and now there is no such thing in this report. Next, the report shares all questions. So it's about requests, very clear requests from the Annex Map times, and that's 52 requests, and the report divides them into three groups. 25 In the first group there are requirements that have been fully met and most of the group concerns immigration issues, the construction of the Acceptable Centre, the monitoring of immigration flows, additional premises in the Acceptable Centre, etc. and on the subject of personal data protection, protection rules, operational establishment of the Agency, etc. In this group of fully met requirements... one question is raised: legal administrative measures on the implementation of international standards, including GRECO and the signing of the Additional Protocol with the European Criminal Law Convention on Corruption. This second part, the signing of the European legal convention, is in the finality of the Presidency, but this first part is not fulfilled. ... It's separated, so it's put to full, I think it needs to be depromised. But in general, these requirements that have been met entirely, so there are very few of these requirements, and most of them are, as you can see, the requirements that have been simpler and there have been no problems. So, simpler demands. In the second group there are 38 requirements for which a single assessment is given in the Report and which reads 'activitys to meet the requirements are ongoing according to the plan'. No problems have been identified that would disable or slow the fulfilment of the requirements. For each of these 38 requests, activities are listed. Some requests have 10 or 15 activities to be done to ensure that the request is met. And it is unclear from the report whether these activities have been carried out or not within the intended time-limit, because the section next to these activities includes the dynamics of realisation, which is empty everywhere. It is unclear whether these activities have been carried out, whether there is a problem, half carried out, have not been carried out. Generally, the activities to be carried out, which should be stated most often on 15.9., the dynamics of realization are unclear: whether, as far as it happened etc. For these reasons, therefore, we think that this report is incomplete and unscheduled. In addition, the activity, the evaluation of these 'activitys run mainly in office and there is no delay', is not expected to be late – it is unargumented in several cases. For example. in the case of requests for the adoption of the central anti-corruption body law, the deadline was set in that report on 15.9. and it is stated that there is no, no delay is expected. Here, today it's 16, the law didn't come into parliamentary procedure. Therefore, it does not seem to be expected to be late. So it's possible there's a big delay here about this and some other laws. In the third group, there are four requirements which are indicated that there are serious delays in compliance. And other than the general finding that there is a serious stalemate are not listed, in some cases at least the more detailed reasons for the stasis. I think, and we have assessed on the Commission that more active involvement by the Council of Ministers and all other competent institutions at the state and entity level is necessary in order to implement these requirements as urgently as possible, which are often very important. With all this in mind, we opted on the Commission yesterday to propose and to suggest to our colleagues that these laws, which are from the Roadmap, which Parliament is to adopt, are this anti-corruption body, the law on amendments to the Criminal Code, which is related to three requirements from the whole: so the adoption of the Criminal Law means the adoption of four requirements at the same time, that these laws remaining to consider the possibility and that we decide here to go according to the reduced procedure. Not urgent to leave the possibility of amendments, but a shortened procedure would eventually allow something to be done by the end of September and that the report contains these two very important measures that would greatly contribute to the quality of the report. 26 So, at the same time, this may mean the need to hold a special session at the end of September, the 30th session is planned, but if the needs and the special session are held by the end of September, if these tasks are to be met as regards the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29115	Thank you. However, you must know that in Parliament we cannot change the procedure proposed by the proposer. We can reduce the procedure from the emergency to the shortened etc., but the laws that have not come,...we can suggest that the proposing procedure is shortened, but if the laws have already come, we, as Parliament, are not in a business position to shorten the procedure. The esteemed second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić, came forward for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29116	I'm a little afraid we're going to have a review of that report at the 13th joint session, whose conclusions on these things are practically being made today. And what Mr. Halid Genjac was talking about is standing. It's also in that report that was 13. But here, given the importance of the issues, I really have no intention of repeating what we all know here, except to point out one dimension that, I think, at this point, we have no better opportunity to encourage people in BiH than this shift towards visa liberalisation. So it's kind of our only chance and the only field where we have any prospects. All these other things are also reforms, etc. a matter of time and process, but here we really have a chance, bearing in mind that Mr. Ren clearly said in his letter that if you do 1. On the 10th we do what is expected of us, they will do what they promised, so BiH's involvement in the visa-free regime in early 2010. So, at the shortest, I should make some kind of comment and some kind of suggestion and suggestions. So we here have to look at things in two parts. So, general obligations, I won't talk about the report. So he's such a natural, he's probably a model, he's probably a kind of program, etc., he's very stereotyped and he needs effort to understand what it is, as long as it is, how it is etc. In this situation, maybe it was just a matter of focusing on what wasn't done, where it stopped, etc. But here, it's a matter of reporting. Still, with a little effort, you can figure out where we are. So, I'll speak with two aspects. So, in general, how we stand and what Parliament's obligation is. So, in general, you've seen, and Mr. Genjac mentioned it, etc., that we have serious congestion, so agreeing with this when it comes to these 38, that we definitely do, other than finding that things are going well, that up to 15 things will be known, etc., but 15 has passed, we're just still staying in the knowledge that things are going well, and how well and when they're going to end up, nobody knows who's responsible or who's going to lead it, etc. So, I'm just gonna stick to these four obligations where they say there are serious demands. So, when it comes to the unique functioning, therefore the functional single Office of the 27 Ombudsmans of BiH, we will now finish our part, when it comes to the personal composition of the BiH Ombudsman, and the stalemate is in the National Assembly of the RS. So we should call the National Assembly of the RS. As far as I know, it was prepared, so it was taken off the agenda and expected to be on the agenda during this month, so this law on shutting down the Ombudsman Institution. Therefore, the obligation will be carried out when the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts a law on the abolition of the Ombudsman's institution in the entity. So, this model for the exchange of information from police registers, etc. is constantly recorded as a parliamentary obligation, which is not true, which is not true. In what I follow, so one active approach I follow, I ask, I inform myself, there are models that do not involve law making, because there is a legal foothold to resolve this by some other acts, guidelines, decisions, etc. at the Council of Ministers level. The rest is questionable whether the model will be via the CIPS or whether the model will be via the Ministry of Security. There are job carriers, security ministers, people from the State Border Service, etc., these agencies, police structures, and they just need to be invited to finish their work. So Parliament is not the address where these things will be resolved. When it comes to the implementation of police laws, we must agree that it was up to us and in the slow elections of these two committees, the Independent Committee and the Board of Appeals, etc., and the behaviour of those chosen. We had to intervene, etc. to hold these constitutive sessions, although elected presidents could do so. It is to be expected that these candidates and people who have applied have read these laws and understood what their obligations are and that they know that they are the ones who discuss competitions and establish sessions etc. So some progress has been made, this Independent Committee has been established. So, President of the Independent Committee, under immediate competition, procedures and appointment of these directors and this condition will be met. And this ensures the availability of information on drug abuses and persons involved in border work, etc. is also directly related to this point, i.e. this model of exchange of police information from police registers. So, practically these four things that this report states are in serious congestion, it seems to me that they can be resolved quickly if the ones I mentioned at the request of this Parliament, so we can't get rid of the obligations, because they're the people we've chosen. So this could be resolved as soon as possible. When it comes to the obligations of this Parliament, in the previous proposals of the Commission on European Integration, it was that the Council of Ministers was asked to require all laws concerning visa liberalisation and adopted at Parliament to deliver them to us by emergency procedure. Mr. Živković is right. So, the promoter determines that. No Niko has defended the Council of Ministers that this current law, the criminal law we are discussing, amendments and additions, delivers it or at least by a shortened procedure. People delivered by regular procedure. But here, today we have a chance to start solving when it comes to criminal law, that condition to solve. There's a possibility if things are consistent. The unique position of the Council of Ministers... was, and we say, let's go to another reading. There's this possibility that the House can determine that. So we can regulate that obligation. When it comes to, I say, this exchange of information, I don't think it will be an obligation of this Parliament and we have another obligation, and that is this law on the establishment of an anti-corruption body. I have an opinion, we have managed to bring into some of our activities the College, so to speak, to agree with the Council of Ministers that our National Section of GOPAC will be involved in 28 activities in the development of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, the Action Plan and the establishment of this body, and I think that, however, we have made some contribution. I think this parliament should be asked to adopt this anti-corruption strategy and, of course, this anti-corruption law. According to the information I have, things have come to an end. So now it is a matter of identifying whether it will end up at the level of the Council of Ministers that strategy, and the law is proposed to Parliament or whether this parliament will be able to stand behind that strategy, and I think it should because such initiatives and demands have been before. And here in the end, so no one can wash off responsibility, all of us could participate, the College was really trying to get involved in all these activities. And finally to say, when it comes to our Commission for European Integration, I highly appreciate the agility of presidents and members, of course, etc., but their function has come down to convincing material, interpretation, etc. what we all know. A hundred times the same. The Commission must have an active approach. To invite the president of the Interresor Group, call the minister, talk, participate in all these processes, not just interpret as what, here, and I seem to have fallen into that trap, interpreting what it should be, and the letter of Oli Ren, and this, and that. So we all have to, in a way, give our contribution, either to direct participation, or to pressure on those who are responsible. And here's the conclusion. I do believe, however, that in these 15 days, if we synchronise activities and everyone takes advantage of, not only responsibility but also the jurisdiction they have, we can solve some things, just a little more courage both with ministers and with this Parliament and with the Council of Ministers, of course, and entity governments.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29117	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29118	I thank you, Chairman. Here's a chance to say a few words about this agenda point. First of all, here is the conclusion that Mr Belkić made about the conclusions of our commission. They have indeed listed what it is in the report, but there is no concrete conclusion on what with this report: whether the Commission proposes that we do not accept this report, to keep it in mind, to return it, etc. And in that sense, I think that really our commission's opinion should be, I don't know, maybe this is a maximum reach for compromise and possible agreement, but if that's the deal, then he's not good for functioning and getting work results on what we're discussing. Here... these things that have been said, in order not to repeat, so we have still obligations left to the Parliamentary Assembly - three, or two obligations. Of which, today we have in our first reading Criminal Law, Amendments and Supplements, and with the best hodogram we can achieve is that for the next month it can be published. So that's where we're late. Here are all deadlines,... The Council of Ministers only did the Roadmap and set deadlines and on September 15th is the key deadline that has been set that certain things will end. However, here we will not... as the 29th Parliamentary Assembly ends the Criminal Law, nor will another law, the establishment of a body against corruption, because we do not have it, we have not yet received it, it has not yet been built, as far as I know. The second thing is the obligations of the Council of Ministers and we see that we have four obligations that are as difficult to bring into line and resolve these obligations. Of those four obligations, three are the obligations of the Ministry of Security. We, when discussed and about the minister in resignation,... the former Minister, Mr Tarik Sadović, we have found that there are certain problems and this entire mandate are Members of the SNSD, whose Mr Špirić is chairman, have constantly had a story about how it is the ministry's fault that we do not implement these obligations to our international obligations. Here, now we have a chance to get the new minister of things started. But here we have, I don't know if it's even possible for the Ministry to get rid of this thing without a minister. Is it even possible for the Council of Ministers of these key things, which say that it is very difficult to reach an agreement, that it can function without the Council of Ministers' Colleges and that a consensus can be reached. And there is the exclusive responsibility of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić. And it is truly unwarranted and irresponsible why today Mr Špirić has not presented to us all these arguments, i.e. data, specifically from this report. In that sense, so, of the four obligations, the three are the Ministry of Security, and they are mostly operational character and we see why these things stand, when we have a clear obstruction in the unnamed minister and inability to end this thing. So what I'd like to say in the end is that I'm not in favour of us supporting this report at all, because these 38 obligations that Mr. Genjac has made clear, and here it's clearly written to us in the report that the activities are in progress and will be as planned by 15. 9th that will be completed. It's 16 today. 9, we really don't have information about really many, many of these activities that should be done, and there's no reason to say that these obligations are respected and that they're on the verge of being solved. We were to have today, with today's date, at 15.9, clearly specified in this report what was done, what was not done, and to be presented to us by those who needed to do so. However, the Parliamentary Assembly seems to be the only one interested, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers and his services are not interested in this issue and we have the situation we have. In that sense, I really don't think we should, in the end I would say,... give support to this report, because he realized that only the Council of Ministers determined 15. 9. as a period when they will honor these obligations, that 38 are not respected, not that they are planned to be respected, but that they are not respected and not within what they have given themselves are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29119	Thank you. Next up for the discussion is Reverend Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29120	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm afraid we have a picture of a situation in front of us that reflects the situation in this country's ruling structure. We only know clearly that today is September 16th, and that yesterday was September 15th, when it was meant to be realized what people had done to themselves, knowing that they had homework from a few months ago. We are even a little, as Parliament, on myself, afraid of this kind of opinion, especially with Mr. President-in-Office of the Joint Commission, whom I highly respect and appreciate as the man who wants to solve the problem, even if he was ultimately to blame, although he is objectively the last to answer for it. So here in this report Parliament, whether or not they're putting together three laws that the Interresor Group chaired as a coward's egg have been laid. And practically, when you look at the Interresor Group Report, which is a letter with this report, someone would get the impression that everything is fine, there's just trouble here in the Parliamentary Assembly. Even when you look here, do they, they claim that they only have four problems in stasis or a stalemate in problems, however, and the rest goes like a stain, goes like milk, and to conclude that it was over yesterday. But here, they have these few problems with the Parliamentary Assembly. As for the problems with the Parliamentary Assembly, amendments and additions to the Criminal Law, we have in the procedure for one simple reason why we have received it from them. And these two other problems that a certain Mr. Rizvo has been pursuing is the law establishing a body to fight corruption, which this parliament has not seen yet. I don't want to be here detailing it, when the public got all worked up, how very responsible people here were trying to take responsibility for at least putting together the commissions that were supposed to exist a long time ago, and they didn't even meet, and they were supposed to produce something that was supposed to be working materials that would come out of the laws that would come to us. And in the end, it's up to us to pass a law that we haven't even seen yet, because it's not in the Council of Ministers. Or, if he does, he's in some drawers. Legal provisions adequate for the exchange of information from police registers across the country? It is also something that has absolutely nothing to do with this parliament at this stage, but it stands in some bureaucratic drawers that I have for a long time naively thought was a matter of a general chaos that exists in the ruling structures of the Council of Ministers, but now with this report I am absolutely sure it is a designed chaos. Designed chaos directly managed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. He consciously designs chaos and makes us all fools. The fact that neither Tarik nor Sadik are here is a problem, that is a problem. We did not make a charge for them, but We did not assign one to the other. But that's why there's no Council of Ministers chairman here. Interestingly, I saw that there was nothing of this, when I saw Mr. Nović who, as if, by interest, was smart among them left on time, because he knows that he was directly responsible for this, that he would have to answer some of the questions that they write here. There's no Sven Alkalaj. The only minister of justice, according to the old good practice, is standing there, and he'll probably give us some answers, but objectively, the mass of things that are missing here is missing because there is no proper imputation from the Justice Ministry, or interresor groups that are directly subject to him. 31 We are even given the first of these conditions in the material, saying, “Is the introduction of biometric passports?” And even there is a copy of what the European Commission is, which is the monitoring group told us another 8. Six. That nobody even bothered to give us an answer to what he prescribed from 8. 6th and, please, on the first page says the European Commission's request from the Map of Times rating, and then bureaucratically all finely drawn up computerly..., everything stands, only none of them read this and thought we wouldn't read it. He says, "Introduce biometric passports." And now it's standing, watch out, a note of eight. 6, says: Please specify the number of biometric passports issued. So is that what they're asking us here to tell them how many biometric passports are specific? That's why there's no Sredoje, because he'd have to beg us or we'd have to beg him. How many biometric passports were issued? It's clear as a day, I've been with all the foreign EU diplomats I'm talking to, as many of you have, and probably many of you are doing it more, on the question, come on, Ad.1. The European Commission has wronged us for putting us in this position, it has wronged BiH and, let us now, not speak to the citizens, it has wronged us. She should not have done this and allowed the green light of Macedonia, Serbia-Montenegro. That shouldn't have been done. They're double arches. But when you say that, each of you asks, do you know how many biometric passports Serbia has issued, do you know how much it's been issued here? And that's just the question when they give, you blow like a baby. All past these biometrics... if the issue had started seriously, we would have had complete arguments for the injustice that we've been made. But we can't just ask people, it's all this, all of this would be accepted, all of this could go through some commissions, through some coordinations, but biometric passports are a point on and, without it, it's gone and why am I saying all this? Because I really think, Mr. Chairman, that we need to take this seriously today. Look, we here when we replace someone and when a procedure is launched for someone, you, when a man sees that he has no support, no support from his party, no parliamentary majority, no majority in this House, you have to take him off the chair. We introduced another home into the game to get time for a man still sitting there. He won't get out of his office until he gets in. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29122	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29123	So, he's right, man, is it, I think Bakir really rightly reminds me of the film Innocentity without protection where famous acrobat Aleksić flies over Belgrade with his teeth attached to the scales hanging on the plane. That's exactly what Bakir says. We're here looking like that Dragoljub Aleksić, who we're fighting in the movie Innocentity Without Protection. There are obviously innocent citizens of this country who absolutely have no protection from the people who represent her. And I think this is (thanks for the intrusion, Bakir has always been a funny man and I've always appreciated it), so I think it's a good thing that this parliament is being shown today, just to show whether this 32 Council of Ministers has a parliamentary majority at all. Is there any behind this Council of Ministers, as it works, we're not going to replace them, we just need to see if there are 22 men here, 22 men with and without the entity majority, whatever they want, are there 22 people who support this? If he doesn't, then this Council of Ministers better just leave. ... No, I know it won't, but it doesn't matter, I want to state the SDP's position. We will each of these conditions that comes before this parallel awaited by the Council of Ministers – has our support what is in this one, everything that is written here has our support, even with the fellers, even with the fulls. We'll fix them. You and when you adopt laws that are good, you don't apply them, so I don't know what they'd do wrong, so if we need to adopt some to get a visa-free regime, then it doesn't matter, we'll fix it later. So in order to get a visa-free regime, each of the laws that says the hammer here blunt, you have a condition for liberalisation, we're going to give a suggestion, and in the end, when it's a stop-pani, if it's up to us you have votes, that's that it's these two or three laws, and then we're going to fix them afterwards. I suggest, Mr. Chairman, two conclusions, since there are no people who should hear this, 'invite the Council of Ministers to be in a permanent session to meet these conditions'. The second conclusion "that the House of Representatives will be in a permanent session following the Council of Ministers' dynamics to show about all the laws it receives within 24 hours of the adoption of the Council of Ministers". So, number one, we invite them to be in a permanent session about this and they're calling in inter-resor groups. There are enough halls here to call us on our commissions and to be in a permanent session following them to the extent... and that we are available within 24 hours to read every proposal that comes, which is our obligation. I think you'd like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29124	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29125	as constructive as it is, and since we're going to be in a permanent session, we're going to have time to talk. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29127	...can take off... in these elections but about that, by that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29128	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29129	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, requirements or conditions for the liberalisation of the visa regime we are talking about today and treated through this report were known long before 8. Six. In 2009. On these terms we have spent many months, for some maybe years, and we haven't solved them, and obviously, we may not want to admit to ourselves today that our expectations in the middle of the seventh month of this year are that these requirements, or conditions, will be resolved and met during the period that was before us in less than two months, of 15. Seven to seven. 9, how much time this report treats, and this time is mostly the most part of the vacation time, that our expectations were too ambitious, not taking into account that many of these requirements should not have been resolved by the Parliamentary Assembly but by some other institutions. But these other institutions were obviously, at that time, on vacations. It's not an alibi, and it's especially not a comfort for everything that's not done, and it's supposed to be done. I, first of all, support the findings of our Joint Committee on European Integration, which speak of... incompletely and unsupervisedly as well as the assessment that there is a lack of definition of the problem, i.e. the reasons for the delay in the four requirements, which are being treated, do not say anywhere what are the real problems, which are the real reasons for such a stalemate. Also, there is an impression of these 38 when it is said that there are no more serious problems to be solved, that all these days will be resolved. Of the 7th. Nine to 15. 9. We don't know if anything's settled. With the support for the conclusion proposed by the Joint Committee on European Integration that all the laws listed through these requirements to arrive at us in the procedure by a brief or possibly haste procedure, I think we are missing a conclusion to ask for a more complete, updated report from the Council of Ministers with, say, 30. 9, and that with that day we know exactly what this is realized, which is not yet realised and, if there are still delays and problems in the realization of certain requirements, to precisely count these problems and reasons for such congestion. In addition to all of this, I do not really see a clear finding on page 26 of the Report, at the bottom of this page, and the section on legal and administrative measures taken at the implementation of international standards, including the remaining GRECO recommendations, says 'implementation of measures for which there is a possibility'. Mildly speaking, a very vague definition for implementing measures. It's not said what is possible for those for whom there is no possibility, what is the reason that there is no possibility and what are for which there is no possibility, which are for which it does not exist. I think it would be good to ask for a fully updated report with a date that would be realistic, if it's said here that many of these requirements can be resolved in a relatively short period of time, realised. Maybe it'd be good if it was 30 already. 9th and that report, which would make of 30. 9th and in the next five or six days, the Council of Ministers has prepared, we are considering at the first next session after that, but with an exact cut that is actually realised and with a precise definition of problems for those requirements that are not realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29130	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Mehmed Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29131	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I will briefly look back on this report and what I have seen here. ... The 38 sections state that activities to meet the requirements are ongoing in accordance with the plan, no problems have been identified to prevent or slow down the fulfilment of the requirements. This disabled, repeated 38 times, that's that copy paste, etc. However, this finding here is really on the questionnaire and I quote it from what I personally experienced. As chairman of the Executive Board of GOPAK, I attended, or participated in the work of the Interresor Group, which was tasked with building the Anti-Corruption Body Act, as well as the Anti-Corruption Strategy, and in those two-three sections relating to the law mentioned and the creation of this strategy are currently listed as fulfilling activities without problems, there are no problems. However, the fact is that there were very big problems, terrible differences in the approach to making the law and, in the end, I don't know whether it was successful to achieve agreement, but, even if it was achieved, I think we should do everything and that we here should do our best to make sure that if this law comes to be prepared and proposed for adoption by an emergency procedure, that it might justify what is written about this law. We also suggest this because we proposed and sent a written request to the Council of Ministers at our meeting that two of our members be included in the Interresor Working Group for the construction of the law I mentioned. We didn't get any answers to that. We are only informed as a GOPAC that as observers we can participate in the creation of this law. So, when it comes to the 'Law on the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Agency' and for this strategy, which I certainly suppose should be adopted by Parliament, I think it can be done a lot to ultimately meet one of these visa liberalisation conditions. I cite this for the simple reason that it is indeed under a great deal of question the justification that 38 places, or 38 sections, indicate that the activities are being carried out in accordance with the plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29132	Thank you. The next for discussion is Ambassador Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, you see, in such a serious situation and in every serious country, if such a large issue were discussed, it would surely decide 35 about the fate of the country's survival. And you see what we have to deal with this important subject, which is of great importance to the citizens of BiH. When it was already half this year that BiH would not, unfortunately, meet the conditions to join a group of Balkan countries that acquire a more liberal visa regime, I said at the time that it was actually one totally unresponsibility of the BiH authorities towards its citizens, not to use the more difficult word. The government has actually punished its BiH citizens. The preconditions for meeting the Map of Times have been known recently, such as the known preconditions, i.e. the obligations to meet the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, such as the known criteria for BiH's road to the EU. However, whenever an analysis of BiH's move towards the EU is found on the agenda, we, unfortunately, always have the same situation. This is because there is no real commitment of the government to start BiH on a serious path towards the EU. The road map was an excellent opportunity, one of which was a major step in BiH, a step towards the EU. But harder than all of this, there is a general dreary picture that BiH is sending with all of this, which, by discussing this, does not have the strength not to point out the real culprit, the real cause, to the real reasons why this is not happening. This reminds me completely of last year's state of affairs in the fourth month, if I recall correctly, when we came to teat, to say, on the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we hastily adopted some reform laws on police. And you see, after a year, after 15 months, these laws were supposed to name the police bodies that stem from that law. So now I'm asking you what we had as a state benefit from these police laws that were the basis for us to conclude the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I am afraid, therefore, that even now if we had the EU's so kindness, the European Commission, that it would see something through our fingers, that we are actually doing nothing to improve the conditions of life in BiH. And that's what's worst. And in order not to repeat now what the colleagues have already pointed out, if we don't actually have a coach or captain in this country, we don't have synthesises, we don't have a job carrier, we don't know who's responsible, I conclude that the greatest responsibility in this House is more concrete on the parliamentary majority. The greatest responsibility for this matter is also borne by the parliamentary majority. It's you, sir. When they asked me if I felt responsible, I said yes, I feel responsible because I am a member of the highest legislative body. But I don't feel guilty, because what Lagumdžija said earlier was not an important law that makes BiH progress in this sense without SDP supporting it. But, gentlemen, unless there's strength, we've been pointing to problems, we've been launching a workless initiative to sanction the unhappiness of the Council of Ministers. That was unsuccessful. And that's why I'm saying now: if the parliamentary majority can't stand the strength to say and point to the culprits for such a serious situation, then it becomes the biggest culprit for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29134	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić next. Here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29135	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I must say that I am somewhat confused by this material and by the name of this point as it is defined here. I don't know if I don't have complete material or if you've misdefined the point. I have the material sent by the Interresor Working Group, not the Council of Ministers, I don't know what it's like with the others, and the agenda point is defined as being the Council of Ministers' report. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I don't know if it's the same because it's formal and maybe it's essentially Interresor Working Group material. Now, maybe the Council of Ministers thinks that this, or so it can be concluded if this is their material, that they think that by forming a working group, or Interresor working groups, they've finished their part of the job and said, "Here, we've formed an Interresor Working Group, they'll fill out those forms for you, and you read there, do what you want, conclude, we don't care. Something like that could be set up. And then, as my colleague Lagumdžija said, we were wronged, I thought he would say that this Parliament, and I think we look more like Kalimer than Parliament - cares in some position to suffer some injustice either from Oli Ren or from the Council of Ministers or from someone else. I think that colleague Nanić suggested well and I agree that we do not accept this material today, to return it for two reasons. The first thing I think he's not Council of Ministers material, I can't figure it out. That's one thing. And the other thing, if it is, I don't see the President of the Council of Ministers, or the Chairman, or the Vice President, and I don't think, I'm really saying so, I don't think there's more important things today than this. If there is something more important than this, every honor, but it seems to me that today, in this place, in this building, the most important item of the agenda, because this is the thing that interests the citizens of BiH most, no matter where they live, what they do, how educated or uneducated -- this is everyone's interest. One more thing I want to say is that here in this report, and that is what my colleagues have already mentioned, in my opinion, is the incorrectly stated obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is ours here, and because of the public, I think it is necessary to say that, as far as Parliament is concerned, the only obligation that we can currently fulfil and fulfil is the adoption of an amendment to the Criminal Law. This issue of corruption and everything else, it hasn't come to us yet, and you don't know when it will. In short, I suggest we return this report to the Council of Ministers, I think it would be a stronger message to the Council of Ministers and citizens and that we would look much more serious than to accept such material. Thank you. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29137	Thank you. The following came to the discussion with the first deputy chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29138	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, a respected member of the Council of Ministers, I must say that I have been in a dilemma since the beginning of this agenda, and I thought I'd come forward and suggest that we take it off the agenda, or we delay the debate on this point, but here, in considering the debate has begun, so I was thinking whether we should even get involved in the debate. I'll first say that this material that we've got is correct material. He's a report on the implementation of the plan. He's who he is. With what it is, we can be content, we can be dissatisfied. I don't think it's correct that Mr. Rizv here patiently listens to criticism and at his expense, even though I have to say I don't see why he's responsible, it's not correct to attack for correct information about the real state of things when it comes to visa liberalisation. Someone mentioned to me today that since I was seven. This 6th year, we know what our other obligations are. I'd expand it a little bit, we know from a year ago what our obligations are. And as far as Parliament is concerned, I will agree with all those who have said that very often, some accounts are unfairly exposed to Parliament. However, given the fact that we and the body he chooses, appoints, confirms executive power, controls, monitors, etc., we cannot escape from that part of responsibility, whether we want to or not. I think maybe we're all under some kind of impressions today, but maybe we've accidentally prepared a complete matter of this. It seems to me that at this point it would be more like we had an analysis of the unfulfilled conditions, meaning with a proposal or a detection of the problems caused by the failure of these conditions and a proposal for possible measures to overcome these problems and how we could really come to the fact that we can realize that we have fulfilled all our commitments. That might be the way it is. What I find very often, I don't know how any of you, these days, imposes into thinking—what is the reason. You see, we're not one of these troublemakers here, let's say, unfulfilled terms is the exchange of information between police registers across the country. That's one of the problems and I read that note out there: there's no way to figure out how to get rid of it. Let's imagine a fact or a situation in which this is not a condition for European or any other integration, let's put it aside. Would this question then, perhaps, be resolved? Because I can't figure out, is it possible that someone isn't in the best interest of these law enforcement agencies to share information with each other? How are they supposed to work? Well, they can't work unless they're exchanging information. And information is exchanged with other countries via Interpol, etc. with continents, and we're thinking whether we're going to exchange information between political agencies within a country. I really don't see, here, I took this one example as an example of why I'm going to ask the next question. Are we being honest? Do we really want European integration? So, do we really want it? Have we ever opened a serious 38 debate on what this means to us, BiH, the citizens of BiH, by saying that we are all in BiH and there is a consensus on two issues, European and Euro-Atlantic integration. And we all do it like parrots, whenever we get there and wherever we go. Are we sure that's right? How is it, then, if we are all so committed, that we do not want to meet the conditions that lead on that path, which is a condition, that we realize those goals that we are supposed to be committed to? I have to say, the key question is that. Are we truly, honestly, all of us who are involved in this process, and European integration, and are we aware of what these European integrations bring positive and what perhaps negative for all of us in BiH? Sometimes it seems to me that some of them are more conscious, under the circumstances, so maybe that's why they're slowing down this European path of BiH, or maybe I'm mistaken, which I would like to, but I really don't understand why on this, here I would say, simple questions we stumble, and now the problem is how to skip it. I'm not smart because of my own dilemmas, what's the reason for this, what's the proposal for a conclusion, because anything I would suggest would have to set thesis. If we are for European integration, we can settle this, and then this proposal stands and that the Council of Ministers is constantly sitting and that we are always sitting here and that we wait here as soon as they do something to let us go. That makes sense if we are. But if we're not, then we're just going to add costs here, and the results are going to be the same as they are anyway. So we really need to see the fact that we here today, as we like to say, the most important things in BiH, here at this point, only two ministers from the Council of Ministers, speak enough about whether we really are for it or not, is this the most important topic in BiH. Based on that, it's not. Take a look, and here's the list of hearings. It's possible it's not some purpose we've been discussing, either. ... What is the interest in this subject of all of us? Take a look at some peripheral questions and you'll see 30 reported, 60 replicas, etc. We all agree on this. You don't have any replicas today for a single debate on this issue that is very important. How come, if we all agree, if it's such a consensus. The replicas usually come out when there's no agreement. So we're all consensual, but we're not good at something. I think it's time to, it's about time we reconsider what's not working out for us and whether maybe this is my question, and I wish it was set up for nothing, whether we are really for European integration. If we are, I believe that very soon we will meet all these conditions and that both the Council of Ministers and all others who participate, both entities and lower levels and municipalities etc. This is not what we discussed today, we did not discuss problems – here is the Minister of Civil Affairs – about the problems this ministry probably has to meet one part of the conditions for it, and about the security of documents and home offices and ties, etc. We didn't. The problem, however, is that we often don't all have information. And that's the problem. I wish we had information today where the problems are and that the Council of Ministers is asking us to help him remove these problems in order to do what is right in front of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29139	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić for the discussion. Here you go. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, someone said there was no replica even though there was a cause for replication, because it's obvious that some trades would liberalize if they could harm the chairman of the Council of Ministers. It's obvious that it's more important to harm him than to make a move when it comes to what we're discussing today. There was also a discussion that, when you take it out of context, looks like one thing (there are no colleagues of Lagumdžija), the names of Minister Nović when it comes to passports, from his point of view, and when you mention problems in municipalities as many as there are numbers, someone said that, with the parent books and everything that follows, then normally he didn't talk about it because he wanted to achieve something else. The Council of Ministers, including this Parliament, when it had two inlets, is the same thing as my colleague Lagumdžija said that we had in common with a single minister in the Council of Ministers whom he said we couldn't banish. Normally, it's left a mark and it's left a consequence, that you have this problem, and we're going to push him out on such heavy charges. And normally we have a problem with this as soon as we have today, early arrests and all that sort of thing, but I didn't answer for it, but just because it's the chairman of the Interresor Working Group here, Mr. Rizvo, I invite him to make comments on these things, since he's here and he's authorized by the Council of Ministers to comment today or someone else if he does, means the remarks of those fellow MPs who pointed to it. When we chose them, or when we welcomed the election, we felt that these people were leading it in the common interest and that they would explain any reasons and what was at stake in this House. I don't think this Interresor group is relevant.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29141	Thank you. At the beginning of this agenda, I gave the Council of Ministers the opportunity to determine and always have the right to report for the discussion, as the honourable Minister Sredoje Nović did, I give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29142	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, I regret to say that I had to leave for a short while because of earlier commitments and a conversation that I could not pass, but I would like only to give you relatively brief insight into the issues of biometric passports, and I would not want your precious time to use or at least to abuse. My ministry has taken what we think was necessary, and I will not say more than that because you cannot do more for the citizens of BiH than they deserve. In fact, we chose almost 20 days ago to visit directly across BiH and to talk directly on the ground with all interior ministries, primarily in all cantons, and then also to talk with the Federation's Justice Ministry in the Federation, and 40 to the Ministry of Local Administration and Self-Government in the RS, and to some other ministries at the level of BiH that are participating in this very important problem. I have to tell you that one dimension is when we talk about the obligations that state ministries need to fulfil, and the other is much more delicate obligations that local authorities, or cantonal ministries, need to fulfil, above all, internal affairs, but especially the authorities responsible for the parent books. It's not as simple as it seems sometimes to us, because it's enough for just a little summer review to get everyone in the birth books in BiH in any home office, or to God's most organized in Sarajevo, where they're electronically solved books, but parent books that basically nobody believes are true today. So we are fully moving into a strong reform of the home offices. And the agreement was reached with the Federation Justice Ministry, and the Minister and the Ministry of Government and Local Self-Government in the RS to release identical laws in their parliaments that have been agreed, in both entities, on parent books and electronic book-keeping. So, those two laws. They will make it legal for electronic books to be run at all, as we do not have it in BiH at the moment. Nevertheless, what I received assurances about the organs, or cantonal interior ministries, almost met their conditions for the issue of biometric passports. We, first of all, think for eight days, have just sent to the field in all municipalities, so for the first time anyone from the state level is sending all municipalities letters in which of the mayors of the municipalities, of the interior ministers, we are asking that the explicits tell us if they have met all the standards that were delivered to them a long time ago with regard to providing all the conditions for the issue of biometric passports. What has reached the answer so far, it is about 70%-80%, we expect that these two or three days will arrive and everyone else, based on which we will make one complete, complete information for the Council of Ministers and, of course, this Parliament, where we will be able to say precisely whether or not a municipality has met all the intended conditions for the issue of biometric passports. All talks conducted with the competent authorities, i.e. on the launch of the issue of biometric passports, confirm in practice that what is provided for by the contract with the supplier on the date of delivery of biometric books, which is October 15th, that this is the term when definitely the first biometric passports will be issued. Anything else that we had negotiated with the suppliers to speed up, to cut that deadline for us, we weren't on the occasion, or there were promises, but two days ago the supplier informed us that he couldn't deliver the first biometric passports before 15 October. At that time, it would definitely, as expected, begin issuing biometric passports in BiH. I hope it'll be the final term, the final date when there won't be any delays, because everything else is really ready about the internal affairs authorities and the parent offices that are now doing. But I once asked all of you from this pay phone, all parties that are participating at the state level, surely hold a certain authority in the municipalities, and I don't believe that there is one party that doesn't participate at the same time and in the municipalities, I asked that the mayors of the municipalities, that it be transferred to your 41 lines, that they are directly assisted in fixing the parent offices, because there is no other solution. There's no state-level possibility that someone can order that it has to be accelerated. So we care about that too. I've been to a lot of municipalities and seen what the situation really is in the home offices. It must be acknowledged that the situation was drastically improved back half a year. And we believe that's how it's gonna be. So, just to conclude, I'm not taking up your time anymore, the biometric passport, the procedure, everything that's supposed to go fully established by dynamics, and not a day de facto has a deviation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29143	Thank you, Minister. Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac, one more thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29144	Well, that's to use as an opportunity for business intervention, but since it's been mentioned a couple of times around this commission, I think I need some clarifications. First, after a joint session, we had one commitment to begin each session by analysing this situation around the map of the road. And I think that's a more appropriate name than the report, because the report refers to a final state for some material or for some period. But let's not complicate that now. It was an intervention that perhaps the Commission could also play a more active role by calling, co-operation and that the report was more about running over. Personally, we can do it. However, the Commission, as well as all others, is fulfilling their activity and their relationship with the Rules of Procedure by giving assessments, courts, recommendations based on materials and calling on Parliament's proposings. And, of course, we can. When it comes to this report, he is a persuasion only in that necessary section to prepare the necessary conclusions. Because I will remind you, and in this report stands a series of grades. Like, a very small number of simplest demands has been fully met. The report is incomplete, unscheduled. The report has been unargumented in several cases, indicated where. More active involvement of the Council of Ministers and other relevant... is necessary in order to implement the requirements as urgently as possible. And, in the end, a recommendation to speed up procedures. So I would not agree that this report by the Commission, if this opinion by the Commission had just convinced the situation. He talked to her to the necessary extent, but also gave her a grade, a review of the report. We have determined to give a report, because I personally think it is far more important to remove these shortcomings in the next report, which may be in 10 or 15 days, than to adopt or not adopt the Report. It is far more important to remove these shortcomings that are recorded and recorded. 42 That is why I think that, of course, as does the Rules of Procedure, the Commission's opinion should be put to the statement. It contains these assessments as indicated. The adoption of the Commission opinion is also compatible with the adoption of the Report, acceptance of the Report and non-acceptance of the Report. It is now a question of MPs how to identify, therefore, but the opinion contains an assessment with a lot of elaborate elements of what should be removed in the next report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29145	Thank you. For the replica, dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29146	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I very briefly wish to say to Mr. Sredoje, offered his last words concerning the appeal of the municipalities, since Mr. Nović when he was not here, I honored him with an epithet for which he should have been pleased, and he also showed this time that he was really the master to put something on us here with his appeal. However, such an appeal, which points to the minister that something is problematic in the municipalities, beware that there is no legal regulation. The minister, when giving us an appeal, should nevertheless be the result of something with which he will be prepared to go to this parliament, with one analysis, with one information, with a possible proposal for legal solutions or more concrete activities, with any failures he has seen specifically, in which environments, in which municipalities, which are species if there are, and I am sure that he has found a lot of things, and not to keep it in the air like this. Because, you know, you can get the impression that this supplier might be faster if there were fewer problems in the municipalities, and there's no need, it just isn't. I am inclined, therefore, to call on the minister to give us information that will result from his appeal to the municipalities, with a concrete proposal for legislative activities, ours, what needs to be directed towards entities and to the extent that some municipalities do not respect something or do not respect the legal procedure or try to fill the legal gap properly to turn us in such a way, and then we can move on to political action, because here his appeal was focused on political action, not on us as MPs, but on us, whether, which I am experiencing the circumstances, there is perhaps a chief, if we already do not have ministers, is whether, who come from the party, so that I would like it not to remain unclear. I'm sure he has a way to arrange it in Banja Luka as well as I can in some municipalities others, but I wouldn't want him to edit it differently than I do, because we're still colleagues at the state level here. Someone's the minister today, some MP tomorrow, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29147	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Salko, you had the same replica, didn't you? 43
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29148	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The replica, I think, is in that positive sense. I've been listening very carefully to this discussion about this agenda point. There have been various arguments, it has been said about who it is, which is not guilty of why we are here today, but what I would suggest here to the Commission and specifically Mr Genjac, so I believe that this replica is in one positive approach, precisely this last sentence that Mr Genjac was saying 'that the Commission's conclusion is to remove the shortcomings that have been recorded'. I've exactly written that sentence. What does that essentially mean? Here I think one of the conclusions of our meeting today would be the completion of the Council of Ministers. So we must have the Council of Ministers at full capacity if we are to remove these shortcomings. So, if, among other things, we have a tight number of Council of Ministers' obligations, a tight number of obligations from the Ministry of Security, a tight number of institutions within the Ministry of Security (the Border Police, SIPA), etc., so, today we can, just what Mr. Belkić was talking about, or this about the coward's egg, means to complain about each other what is not done, or what should we do next. But in particular, if we want to make a move today, then we need to come up with a conclusion from this debate that the Council of Ministers must, as far as tonight, be complete. Because then the obligations of the Ministry of Security, in this capacity as it is today - cannot be done by the Ministry of Security without the Minister. The Council of Ministers... can't function if we don't have that conclusion or if it isn't complemented through the commission or, in particular, then we've really been talking to each other, complaining to each other, talking about what we should do, and we haven't really done anything. Here, in that direction, I propose to the Commission that this conclusion be complemented by their report, or if that is not possible then, in writing until the final statement, here I can take the obligation on myself or the US Club, to submit that conclusion in which here in this form something would define what I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29151	Thank you. I'm sorry, Minister, but I thought the honourable MP about your discussion would say something, but you have a word. Here you go. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29152	Of course, this is no replication but simply my wish that if you have heard eventually, I have said that one complete information is being prepared about the whole of BiH, all the authorities and the situation as it is on the ground. But this only gives you one piece of information before you get that document, or that information that these days, because it also points out that all organs and written answers, so you're going to get the whole thing. But, regardless, we all know that the responsibility for the parent books is the Federal Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Administration and local self-government in the RS. And with them long-term talks were conducted and agreed and laws prepared as a whole, almost, I said, identical, consistent, which is not very common, and it is recommended and agreed with them to send to the first subsequent sessions of their parliaments the Law on Parent Books in the Federation, i.e. in the RS and the Law on Electronic Book Management and to adopt it as such urgently in the procedure in order to speed up certain jobs in this regard. And I didn't mean to give anyone advice, because I at least have the right to do that to you, I only appeal once more until then, don't count on it for sure that if we suggest, we ask the mayors of the municipalities, we ask them to go around the home offices and look at the state of work, what conditions these people are working on, and how they keep their books. So this is my only sincere appeal and a desire not to wait until this Parliament's final decision to make on the basis of the document and the appropriate conclusions, fully aware that this is just information to you, and not at the same time a document that I understand should be given.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29153	Thank you. Given that we are going to declare this opinion to our commission, I suggest that the Commission, in the break, consider this last position, or the last position, to exclude the law submitted, means to be thrown out and to put the proposal in place in the last place. That would give business power to these acts. So, to the Council of Ministers who have not proposed the law, Parliament is suggesting that it goes in a shortened procedure. That's it. I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, that's ad. 4. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on witness protection programme (second reading) At the 35th session, this law was adopted in the first reading. At the 39th session agreeing to the bill in the second reading. At the 41st session, the Kolegijum failed to reach agreement, and a statement was postponed for the next session. 45 The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security are in charge of trying to reach agreement in co-operation with entity and cantonal justice ministries on issues of dispute in the bill's proposal and inform the House. Day 31. 8. The BiH ministry delivered a conclusion on the Commission's contribution report. So, just a statement, there's no discussion about this. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for an amendment II. to the Constitution of BiH – Proposers: Members of the Party for BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29156	Thank you, Chairman. I must begin by saying that I was a little bit and surprised and surprised by the Council of Ministers' opinion on Amendment II. in the Constitution of BiH, the more the proposal that the Party for BiH has put into the procedure for amending the Constitution, i.e. erasing the position of the 2nd member of the IX Constitution of BiH, which, to remind you, says that 'the compensation for persons performing functions in BiH institutions cannot be reduced during the term of office of the holder of the function'. So our amendment has just contributed to the resolution of this stalemate that we have in the parliamentary procedure. Here, I hope that the Joint College of both homes will also, perhaps, draw from this example lessons and do, or, in this case, hire someone to review similar acts that have been in the process for several years, and that depends on someone's will, and even, here in this case, let's say, the College of the House of Peoples who did not respect their own conclusion, therefore, to discuss the amandman to the Constitution when the Law of Salutations is passed. The pay law is, as we know, long ago in application in this country, and I don't know that the House of Peoples has put the agenda of the Amendment on the Constitution. 46 So, we have one here, I mean, I am also glad that the Council of Ministers and gave such an explanation, that is, to remind all those parliamentarians who may not have been in Parliament in the past, so maybe they couldn't even know they were 31. 8. In 2005, the House of Representatives or Parliament's House of Parliamentary Assembly adopted by a two-thirds majority the Amendment to the Constitution. Even after a public debate, etc., which the House of Nations refused, or extended, to do so in connection with the Law of Salaries. In order to get out of this situation, and especially by appreciating the economic situation in BiH, we recently had the IMF's demands regarding public spending, the need to reduce public spending at all levels, including the state level. We appreciate that in this country, the burden of corrections, among other things, part of public spending relating to salaries, should be borne by all, including MPs, or persons performing functions in BiH institutions and that both fees, i.e. their salaries and fees, should be followed by the economic situation in the country. And here, more, perhaps, and precisely because of this argument, we appreciate that it would be good for the House of Representatives to confirm its earlier decision and its earlier commitment, and that perhaps to facilitate the House of Peoples as soon as possible to declare what it was obliged to say since 2005 and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29157	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to say, at the very beginning, that the SDP as a whole, completely, without the rest of both homes, supports such an amendment and intensity that has been made by this amendment. So, let me get this straight, we're in favour of that amendment being accepted. However, Mr. Chairman, I would ask that you from the College possibly inform us of your position on this letter from the Council of Ministers. I'm a little surprised -- given that the BiH Party proposed its amendment to the Constitution two and a half months ago -- why it took the Council of Ministers two months to read this in one of these ways which is minor to technical nature, so that this was seen as a technical issue could have been resolved before today. What I particularly appreciate is this evolution in political thinking. Name 31. 8. We adopted the two-thirds majority of the Amendment, 31. 8, that's before that April package. And then, as I recall, no one was saying that the adoption of the amandman meant legalizing the Constitution. Eight months later, some were against the April package because they claimed it was the legalization of an unfair constitution. Then there was the vote on the amandman for Brcko, then it was found that it was not exactly legalising the constitution and this amendment which, after the Brcko amendment, came from the BiH Party to me in fact indicates that the BiH Party did not return to the position that it was legalisation, so this trend continued that it was finally no longer a problem legalising the constitution. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29159	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29160	Yeah. Now it's going like this. Now it's stabilized that it can change.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29161	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29162	I especially welcome it, because your attitude that went up and down, up and down, now it's left, up, down, down, but here, it's already stable, so we finally have a constitution that we can work on. That's one encouraging thing to me. And I'd like to ask you, Mr. Chairman, that according to the emergency procedure, you see if we need this, so best until the vote to let us know to clarify this with the House of Peoples. If we don't have to vote this, if it's just up to the people's house that they're ending it, and if, if it isn't, if it's up to them again, to the people's home, so here's what we're going to give them today and really end that procedure in a technical sense, because I see the content thing is very clearly set up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29163	Thank you. As for the time of arrival of this item on the agenda, it is the matter of the Rules of Procedure that the opinion must be obtained, whereby it is up to the Council of Ministers to give an opinion and, believe me, that Mr Beriz even asked his personal contacts to do so as soon as possible, and that we were waiting for an opinion from the Presidency, this point would probably come a little bit later on the agenda, because that business should also give its opinion. At the same time, the secretary informed us that this is the procedure that needs to be done and that we are discussing this amendment here in a way that we have opened the debate regardless of how the House of People thinks or does not think to complete its procedure so that this is the right way of doing business and that is why we have opened the debate in this way. We have three replicas now. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29164	Thank you, Chairman. It is very indicative that a colleague of Lagumdžija applied for a replica immediately after his discussion. 48 I am pleased that he closely follows the party's views on BiH, especially when it comes to constitutional problems. Although it is very picturesque and eloquent in its style, it has suggested here that some reminds, etc., I have the need to correct that the Party for BiH, when considering the April package, was not against the change of the Constitution. The BiH party even went in the direction of finding a compromise, proposing an additional amendment to the proposed amendments to the constitution, which were, among other things, our position and reflection of our position that key blockades in BiH's decision-making process should be removed. In that sense, unfortunately, I must say, time has given us time for law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29165	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29166	Looks like it's already moving into the campaign pre-election, and here we're going to talk today about how big our salaries are, how we need to cut them, how VAT should be reduced, etc., introduce a differentiated rate. Now these topics are going to buy these political points. We know it doesn't have any of it. This is a nice try, and we know it won't work. Well, today I call upon people who are so dissatisfied that their salaries are 5,000 or 6,000 thousand marks to do what only four MPs from the U.S.A. did. Let them choose, here, from the budget of the state part of these funds to countless purposes where that money is necessary, Merhamet, Caritasu, what I know, Shechid families etc. There's so much where the poor people need help. Our salaries are too high, and if you're really unhappy with it, you have a chance to take out 1,000-2000 marks the way people in the U.S.A. did. There's nothing left of this, you're aware it's just one hollow story.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29167	Mr. Lagumdžija, the second deputy, probably your replica, so wait a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29168	And Mr. Lagumdžija and Mr. Izetbegović. So, when it comes to evolution and this finding of yours, there is a certain dynamic in the Party for BiH, and it is true. But I'm worried about something else: in the SDP, including you, it's all settled down. So you're completely aligned. And when it comes to Mr Izetbegović and this call, etc., I see it very often pointed out that MPs from the SDA give etc. They give people, but it's not a system. Those who give, they don't say it. Other people give, I assure you, you can look at the lists there, the figures etc. But it's not a theme, it's a system. I can't bring and speak as an argument here if I'm today two 49 people who are in trouble at 100 marks or if I'm scholarship two kids, I don't have to say every third day how I scholarship someone or put them in public kitchens, etc. Really, it's something else, it's a matter of our approach. The system needs to be arranged for us to do the thing here officially. And we can't talk, I don't know how this pessimism is going to adopt this amendment. Well, we all know he's our obstacle to formal law. We need to remove it so we can do these other things.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29169	Thank you. Now here's Ambassador of the Zlatko Lagumdžija, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29170	I mean, I, Mr. Živković, actually told you about the replica, but apparently it's already lost its meaning, I won't forget it. But here's the situation, given that after you three colleagues and colleagues spoke, so in one way or another, someone less someone, someone I don't even thank, came to me for it. I thank my colleague Hadžiahmetović for commending my style and eloquence. However, my criticism, Mr. Živković, was neither stranka for BiH nor the SDA, so I was a little surprised at where they came from. My objection to my initial report was to you three and that other colleague, from Tihić to Filipović, through this lady of yours, so to the Joint College and the Council of Ministers, who brought us into this situation so that we have this paper in front of us so we don't know if we can be clear about this today or not. So my grudge was to you. To remind you that the Party for BiH has been against changes in constitutional, constitutionally through amendments unless the substance changes, i.e. entity voting, they don't want to legalize anything with changes that will legalise the existence of an entity vote. These amendments don't change the entity vote either, so, yeah, and that's good. Mr. Belkić, you're right. We're even. As far as the principle goes, we have a very clear plane where we move, as far as principles are concerned, and you have your... one plane that, I see, corrects, which I think is good, there was no cremation. I agree with both you and Mr. Izetbegović. I agree with him that until the system is set up, which is what I do myself, and I agree with you that the system needs to be built in order not to depend on individual donations. And that's why we're giving up until the system is set up and that's why we're going to vote to form this system, and we fully support your approach, and I'm taking the opportunity to once again express my dissatisfaction with these amendments that we won't be able to lift the entity vote, but that's what they say a small step for humanity, a big step for our salaries, and that's some shift. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29171	Thank you. Now we have a series of replicas on these steps. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29172	Thank you. Here, counterpart Lagumdžija said that the party had evolved and was pleased, but in his explanations of the evolution of the Party for BiH, he did a little retarded, so he first said they were against the Constitution to legalise the Constitution, and then he fell a few steps down and said we were against entity voting. Of course, we're still against it. It's about my colleague Lagumdžija. As for fellow Izetbegović, I don't know how he knows this amendment won't be adopted, unless some have now made a deal to bring it down, that's another thing. But since this House once adopted this amendment, here if the Rules of Procedure enables, here is the Party for BiH, I say on behalf of the Party, we give up authorship and let it continue in the House of Peoples of Procedure. And we don't need to be attributed. And the third thing about sadica, it's a secret thing, it doesn't have to say publicly what anyone gives, it's between man and Bog, and to whom it's given, and it's not part of the system, as counterpart Belkić says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29173	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29174	Replica to Mr. Honorable Ambassador Lagumdžija. So, you should look, if anyone's changed their mind more than once, today one, tomorrow another, it's SDP, and they weren't in debt, and they were changing it. They kept changing their minds. Therefore, he has no right at all to object to stranka for BiH on this matter absolutely nothing. And this, indeed, Bakire, is not correct, that is, at the very least, according to the other MPs of the U.S.A., say four, and five do not give. You know, the question is, why don't five of the others give? Is that the party's view that four give, that five don't give, so I don't think that's correct. There are other MPs who really give, and say that four in the U.S. give, and five don't give, it's really not okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29175	Thank you. It's just been set up. 51 Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29176	So let me tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29177	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29178	We didn't, Berize, advertise this thing, we got caught up in it, you know, it's CCI. So, we got caught by these CCI people that we were doing, you know, so revealed there, there in the paper. No, so we did it neatly for a year, and then there it was, and we didn't advertise that thing. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Yes, it is, so there's the four of us, what can I do, I apologize to this other five.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29180	Wait a minute, wait a minute. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29181	Yes, we did, so we got caught in the act. Maybe it's because I'm fasting, so I'm nervous, so my stomach's a little bit harder to handle politics, you know. Because we had problems here that we were against getting paid. Now we've got the same colleagues here, and they've come up with the idea of getting those salaries shot down. And they know it won't work. Here's Huskić, you'll see in a few hours, we'll vote here, you know who, and we'll let that thing go. Why are you so angry that I recommend that you give something in the pot, what's the problem, that you're so nervous? The salaries are 6,000 marks, you see, there's no other 165 marks there to pay off in the Federation. Why don't you give something, what the hell are you mad at?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29182	Next for the replica, Honourable Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29183	Very short. I don't think there's any need to politicise what Izetbegović was talking about. So it's about what's recorded through the books. That's all you're talking about. No Niko 52 says other people do the same. But this is recorded in Parliament through books, and period. So that's the point. And I mean, I wouldn't, Remzija, make fun of any mockery, I mean, and I wouldn't make fun of this subject. And another thing, when it comes to the Law of Salaries and the Constitution. I say to you that all the methods of interpreting the provision of the Constitution in Article IX position 2 that there is no interference that right now, at this point in the urgent procedure, we will adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and reduce our salaries as much as we want to reduce, by 2000 KM, by 3,000 KM, I don't know either. So there's no constitutional disturbance and there's no need to wait for the amendment to the Constitution for this thing, is there? It is said in this position of the 2nd member of the IX Constitution of BiH'refunds for persons carrying out', (?) microphone not enabled so let me read, 'which performs functions in BiH institutions cannot be reduced during the term of office of the holder of the function'. We took office in this term at the end of 2006 and in early 2007 with almost 100% lower salary compared to the salary we now have, and that is what he means. It's not possible to interpret this so that whenever it increases, there's no going back. The function is taken over with that salary and there's a big space to go back to, all to get back to that pay, everything is space. Therefore, we have, therefore, no change to the Constitution, the possibility of doing so if there is a good will. And otherwise, I mean, don't doubt it, the U.S.A. will support this, so we're not against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29185	We'll support this second one...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29186	Therefore, counterpart Belkić, there is no need. You said it was an assumption to pass the law, I assure you that this is not a necessary assumption to pass the law, the law can be passed without that assumption if it is. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29187	Thank you. You've got another replica, Reverend Zlatko Lagumdžija. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29188	Mr. Chairman, it's really short. Since, indeed, only from these few discussions and replicas have I discovered that there is a possibility of this falling today, so I suggest only instead of a replica or as a replica in all of this so far the conclusion before the vote. The conclusion 'that the College is in charge of clarifying this situation so that it can then approach the vote if necessary', because it can happen theoretically, and I'm afraid, and practically, today at the vote, this might not even get a majority, so that we have in the parliamentary procedure twice the same amendment, once adopted in this house, another time not adopted in this house, so that then the House of Peoples, in fact, asks us what you adopted and that we might then detach it. In order not to be put in that position, I would ask you to maybe leave it and, in the end, if this is indeed adopted, which I hope was adopted in 2005, that we leave this Prussian Trinity, this House of the People, certainly sits there, Mr Tihić, Majkić and Filipović, so if it passes between them, there is a problem solved at least one in Prud. I mean, that's a big shift, too. And the BiH Party will surely give up its authority then, because the most important thing is to move on to BiH. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29189	Thank you. Please give your conclusion in writing. In accordance with Article 76(2), we will vote on this: 'When several proposals on the same issue arise from the debate on the agenda point, the chairman shall vote.' So we'll put your conclusion to the vote, but you have to deliver it in writing. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is already known to the public that the PDP thinks that this issue should not have been in the Constitution of BiH and, therefore, has no objection to this change, even on the contrary, I don't think this should stand in the Constitution, but it really is not the fundamental reason that it is listed and I am completely in agreement with my colleague Džaferović when he says this does not restrict us from regulating salaries in BiH's institutions as well. I must, however, say that here is really this move now that has come and we in the PDP are experiencing as a kind of politics and already a pre-election campaign. How else to interpret this if it is given the fact that the party president who submitted this initiative almost a year ago in the Council of Europe and in the UN Security Council in New York has accused his country that the only country in the region whose constitution is not in line with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. In the Venice Commission report, too, the only objections essentially to the BiH Constitution concern the issue and the report was made, as you know, in 2005. There have been 54 suggestions, so here are these statements by the President of the Party for BiH to bring BiH into line with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, but you well know that for the same reasons that Lagumdžija mentioned, and from the party itself... the thought of discussing it. And I think this is a question that we should have already agreed on, a kind of hostage to the megalomanic demands of individual parties when it comes to constitutional changes. Therefore, the PDP, put forward at this time, will not support this initiative, for these reasons, unless the Party for BiH accepts that, here, this change they have proposed, so amandman II., is an integral part of the changes that will relate to the harmonisation of the BiH Constitution with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. If it is easier for the Party of BiH, here will the PDP be the initiator of such changes, but we are aware that we are still small in this House, regardless of how easily we achieve agreement within the party in this Parliament, and therefore we have not done so. But here, let the BiH Party be that initiator. I am deeply convinced, although I have not consulted with my colleagues, that all parliamentary parties from the RS, whose MPs are sitting here, will support the initiative. I believe it will support others. And this would be an excellent opportunity to, in the pre-election year, in the already beginning of one atmosphere, a very ugly atmosphere, about what will change, how it will change and whether it will change at all, to take this step, to meet the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms and to relax political relations and on this topic of constitutional change and to get into the election year with something that is positive. A positive result on this issue achieved by the adoption of the Constitution, by adopting the Amendment to the Constitution on the Brcko District, and by this one step, where this amendment, which suggests the Party for BiH, would also be, and I don't know how many amendments to the BiH Constitution with the European Convention and Human Rights and Freedoms, would indeed be a good recommendation to all the parties that an agreement is possible in this Parliament and this country and that there is a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29191	Thank you. The second deputy chairman, Beriz Belkić, appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29192	Well, you see, Mr. Dokić, this is a very simple matter. So we have proposed an amendment that we really think is an obstacle to certain things, because it has been shown in practice. Many of the MPs sitting here have indicated that this is counter-constitutional and have called on the member and we have obtained an opinion, have consulted and found that it is an obstacle and that is why we have done this. I don't know what you're now inspired to do to tie this initiative to the opinion of the Venice Commission that you might be talking about, so that speaks of a number of other things. We could now mention resolutions of both the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, the American Congress, about other things to be changed in the Constitution of this country, but this is not the subject. The subject is therefore 55, a concrete amendment to the BiH Constitution which, in our opinion, paves the way for further activities that we have also spent here. And forgive me for mentioning the president of my party, I would like to welcome your president and wish him good health.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29193	Replica reply, Ambassador Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29194	You know what, I don't usually use Parliament in personal matters and it turns into personal relationships. Anyway, thank you Mr. Belkić for these greetings. I only say this because of the circumstances that exist at the moment. I just want to remind Mr. Belkić that the president of the party mentioned, once again, had a problem with this issue more than a year ago, and there are not many resolutions and stories, let's not get carried away. It says explicitly here. Besides, you know that in Strasbourg, two people who have appealed to the non-compliance of the BiH Constitution on this issue will get it. And let's not pretend we don't know what this is about. Do not continue to hold this issue as a special hostage to the megalomanic demands, in this case the party proposing this amendment. Once again I call and say, the PDP really thinks that this member is no place in the Constitution at all and that he needs to be deleted. But nothing stands in our way, this member does not stand in the way of any activity, even wage regulation, I assure you. And the non-compliance of the BiH Constitution with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms to which the Constitution is called in its Article II. and says everything else must be subordinated to this is on the way to BiH's entry into the EU. You know that well. And there's no need to remind you, but I had to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29195	Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović, another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29196	Thank you, Chairman, I know it's a different one. First, allow me to thank Mr Dokić, or the PDP Club, on behalf of the Party for the BiH Club, since he has expressed the PDP's views, for the watchful attention they draw from the views of our party and the performances of the party's president for BiH. And we're keeping an eye on your performances, too, etc. I just want to remind you a little bit of the procedure. In front of you, the amendment to the Constitution says precisely: 'The compensation for persons performing a function in BiH institutions cannot be reduced 56 during the term of office of the holder of the function' shall be deleted as the position of Article 3. I'm asking you to make a statement about it in the procedure. Here, if we need to give up authorship, that's what we said. I mean, it's very indicative of listening to me as economists here, now I have to tell you, the arguments that are being made here against keeping an existing position. No election campaign. Look at the date of this and I will just remind you of a press conference of the Party for BiH that has launched a series of activities that the BiH Party's MPs and the state and entity parliament have launched to facilitate governments, including the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments, to deal with the gravity of the economic situation. You may recall the arguments that are heard in this House, in the Joint Administrative Commission, in the House of Peoples, even from the MPs you called upon earlier, here I am not to appoint them, when we had proposals for any reduction of reception here in Parliament or any hints that anyone thought might eventually cut wages, their invitation to the Constitution. Mr. Dokić, we have before us Amendment II. on whom you will be able to state whether you are for or against, regardless of your calls to the European Convention, the party president shall perform, etc. Here you have the signatures of the initiator of Amendment II. So we can make that clear. Here, we're ready to give up authorship. Let it be the authorship of this entire home. Let it be yours, we'll back it up. But don't find any arguments where they don't belong. Thank you for taking care of the Foreigner for BiH, and today you have even conditioned your support for this amendment to some initiatives that the BiH Party should parallelly put into parliamentary procedure, thank you very much. Whenever we feel the need for a change, we will manifest ourselves, when it is not true that we are not against the change of the Constitution. I'll just remind you that we also supported this amendment when it comes to the status of the Brcko District. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29197	Thank you. Of course, we have replicas. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29198	Here, although I am keeping an eye on this debate, even at one point I wanted to warn the MPs of some parties that the Constitution is not valid in the mud of several thousand marks, and that it is not the Constitution of the Sadducees but a serious matter, and it is not the Constitution of economics, but the first-class political issue, Mrs Hadžiahmetović, you are wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29199	microphone not included 57
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29200	You're, I've listened to you clearly, so this is a first-class political issue and then on and on and on and on and on and on. Every opening, did you come today with a kind of demagogy, every kind of opening talks about the Constitution is a first-rate political issue. That you're looking at it from an economic point of view and think that with a few thousand marks, you're going to solve all the constitutional problems in BiH, that may be your view as an economist, but the people of all others are not. When you open a constitutional debate, then you must face that people are right, because it does not open often, it opens very rarely and opens very seriously. We opened it in the most inconclusive way, sent the most inconclusive message that we were ready to open it for a few thousand marks, because someone allegedly calculated that it would solve it. If you're already talking about the economic benefits of changing the Constitution, so I think you might have been able to figure out a little bit there and the organization of the state and some other things, where you would of these several thousand marks, which I would remind you of that you voted for this amount of salary, your club law and all that I can understand now, are trying to fix and fine. But if you're talking about economic savings and you're talking about the Constitution just to take one thing out of context or, to cut the story short, if this is the maximum request of the BiH Party for constitutional changes, to finish the job today. If this is the only thing that interests you and you think everything else is okay and that we can, we can finish the job that next, I don't know how many years we're not opening that story, because it's not possible when you're talking about the Constitution that you're going back to one sentence that you and I are not slowing down and that you can talk about to the public and other MPs, in a way, get away from all other questions. Normally, people will ask you why other questions are not being raised, why don't we do this which will cause BiH seventy times as much damage as this figure you can count and what someone said today. All those who wish and who are so resilient to resolve the issue of pay, can solve it in ten steps, to leave their salary on one, the other, the third counter, to end this issue, so if it is a problem, do not give the Constitution to someone to give up their wages, do not, I mean, and especially to convince us that the issue of amending the Constitution is an economic issue and especially that this is the only thing the Party for BiH has proposed... because everything remains fine in that Constitution, it remains all well and that we concentrate. It's impossible, so it's impossible and you have to understand that it's causing attention. Any change to the Constitution implies, well you know, what degree of consent, you well know what most meanings, and you know who in this country has to ask for a change in the Constitution and who needs everything to support the change of the Constitution in order to eventually get to someone. I don't slow down, I say again, motives, but you must understand that every change in the Constitution is a political issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29201	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29202	And that you can't avoid discussing all these other things that I've mentioned. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29203	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think this is where we're headed, I don't know, I think, in the wrong direction. Namely, this is about the OHR amendment. So, not on the proposal for an amendment to the BiH Party, but on an OHR amandman that took over the Council of Ministers in 2005 and proposed in parliamentary procedure. We remember well then all the consultations between OHR and clubs, the pressure of the minority at the end of the mandate to adopt this amendment and we then adopted this amendment in the House of Representatives by a large majority of votes. The people's home didn't discuss it, it didn't. Mr Lagumdžija really asked a serious question. What happens if this amendment is not supported today, and this amendment is adopted in the procedure at the House of Representatives, the same? And I just volunteered to correct this quote, here unnecessarily we're heading towards the SBiH, and I think this, I repeat, is not their amendment. On the other hand, I don't know why people criticise the BiH stranka, I am grateful for not accepting the Constitution, the April package. I am grateful today, because today we would probably reject in that debate this April package that we then accepted. Here I am among those who voted for him. Therefore, I am grateful to people for that, but I am not grateful that this amendment has been proposed without clearing up all the dilemmas that my colleague Lagumdžija was talking about. I don't know if he suggested this conclusion, but I'm very close to his conclusion, so once again, it's clear whether what he wrote here is the Council of Ministers, in fact, the path we need to go on. As far as I'm concerned, I've made my position on this amendment publicly and publicly and, of course, I'll also put it to the vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29205	The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić, volunteered for the discussion, and then we will continue with the replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29206	Mr. Momčilo Novaković is right. So, the Party's ambitions for BiH, when it comes to this amendment, were absolutely not an authorship, nor any other opening of things except the realization of a systematic approach to regulating certain relations in the area of wages and other incomes. And that's all the story and all the motives of the BiH Party, when it comes to this amendment. And when it comes to what Mr Kalabić was talking about, Mr Dokić, etc., the BiH Party has clearly and publicly expressed its relationship to the constitutional problem of BiH or the need for constitutional 59 reforms, and it is no secret. We have on three occasions attempts and initiatives to put in the process of the complete BiH Constitution. So we have publicly expressed our views on all issues concerning the Constitution of a country, therefore the issue of functionality, human rights, etc. So it's not just this question, or this question is absolutely not something that is the priority of the SBiH. So, who is interested in our views when it comes to the Constitution, has a booklet, is here with me in Parliament, etc., which is given in the procedure, which we presented to the public. So these are our positions. And Mr. Novaković, you don't have to thank me, I say thank Bog we didn't support that package.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29207	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29208	The need for a replica has already been expressed by Dr Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29209	Thank you. We're moving on to discussions. Discussion, honourable MP Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I share my opinion with those who say that the debate is going in one completely wrong direction and there's no need to run it like this anymore. I may have turned this discussion into a replica, but here's what might take a little time. I am speaking as a member of the Administrative Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Joint Administrative Commission of both homes which essentially regulates Members' salaries at this point. We are talking here today about amending the Constitution so that this brake, which is highlighted as a problem in the decision of the Administrative Commission, would be eliminated. What I've been listening to as a discussion, it seems to me that the fact of who's deciding at this point on Members' salaries. When I listen to these discussions, then I expect this House of Representatives to be complete. He's basically not. So the discussions go, whether consciously or unconsciously in this direction. So, the SDA, her club and I were in charge of submitting to this Administrative Commission an initiative to amend and supplement the Decision on Members' salaries and delegates, where we specified the reduction of the coefficient, and together with Mr. Remzi Kadrić, member of the SBiH, the elimination of the paushals, the fee for visa work in commissions. And then there were some other initiatives on the Administrative Commission, something we realized, something we didn't. But what's the point of the problem? The vote was four, four and one abstention and the decision didn't go through. MPs have challenged such a decision, those who have challenged it, by this very constitutional 60 solution that MPs cannot be reduced pay during the term of office, etc. So, it is necessary, and I am convinced of what Mr Džaferović was saying earlier, I have done so to this Administrative Commission and tried to explain, the founding state of MPs is that salary, today we have some very different salary and it cannot be reduced to that starting point. And I don't think we should react. But here, because someone wants to rely on it as a brake, I consciously today... support this initiative of the SBiH and as such I consider it a type of brake removal so the Administrative Commission can finish its work, because four MPs said precisely 'we would vote for what the new decision is, but here we can't because we won't break the Constitution." And Mr. Dokić, Mr. Ivanić, the president of the political party you come from, has disputed only the possibility of cutting wages through the elimination of this brake in the Constitution. He didn't say anything else and he even specified it, here, so Remzija Kadrić as a member, the President of the Administrative Commission can confirm that he said 'I will suggest to my MPs that this constitutional brake is eliminated and that we can move on to a reduction in wages' etc. What you were just saying is not even close to the story Mr Ivanić was talking about on the Administrative Commission. If we want to solve this issue systematically, we do, and we need to solve it, so we need to remove this constitutional brake and we need to make amendments and amendments to the Law on Salaries and MPs and delegates back to where they belong, that this home and the House of Peoples decide, and not the Administrative Commission, which, unfortunately, makes final decisions with a small number of people where all this can be very easy to resolve, etc. And I think that through the Administrative Commission, we will never be able to bring anything that will be satisfactory or something that this, this approach and NGOs and citizens against our salaries, which are at this point enormous, will not be able to eliminate in a different way. So, we need this constitutional change and we need to support, in the next step, the proposal of the Party for BiH that MPs and delegates return to law, so let's see... who thinks honestly, who doesn't think honestly, and who truly wants to regulate this. And I think this constitutionally, that this proposal by the BiH Party MP, or the amendment to the Constitution, will pass if Mr Lagumdžija is present when we vote. Because so far, some things have not gone away because he was missing, and I will consider him responsible for not passing this constitutional solution proposal unless he is present when we vote here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29211	Thank you. Before I give my word to the remaining people who came forward for the discussion, we in the College talked and we brought the Rules of Procedure to the House of Nations, who in Article 182, treats this matter equally as the House of Representatives in 185, and it is said that all acts that have come, among other things, and from the House of Representatives must end up in the House of Peoples. But we don't know if they had any attitudes about it, whether they were putting it on the agenda, whether they were going to put it on the agenda, and I think the conclusion that Mr. Lagumdžija suggested would solve this problem further to consider this point of the agenda. So, if this is enough for three remaining debaters, since we have to do a preliminary question to talk to the House of Peoples and see the procedure to give up the discussion and adopt this conclusion proposed by Mr 61 Lagumdžija to try and solve it with kolegij. That would do a lot of work, because then we wouldn't have to go in the first reading, we wouldn't have to open up a public debate, etc., etc. Here, and if they want to report, I won't be the one to conclude the discussion. The rest? Okay. Is there something you'd like to say? Velimir Jukić. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29212	Oh, I just couldn't, I apologize to all my colleagues who expected me to withdraw my debate, but I'll just say a few sentences. So we've spent a lot of time talking about our responsibility, about the fact, so some see that wages are too high, that they should be reduced etc. And I'm just going to ask the question: if we're really so responsible, if we look at this question, the question of the pay MPs, just from the perspective of how much it costs, how much money it is, then there's working, I don't know, and total wages are, I don't know, about 3-4 million marks, so that's orderly size. If there was no way, it would be a total savings, etc., if they were twice as big, there would be so much more, etc. And I was just talking about another topic in my question, so one important issue, an important issue for BiH, where we are represented, and others, so the Council of Ministers, are responsible for doing our jobs. So I mentioned and said that when we build or secure highways on Corridor Vc we have about a billion marks booked, which cost us a few million marks a year. So instead of benefiting from these funds to invest them, we have damages, because we have direct costs due to the reserved funds that are greater than our salaries. Now I ask all my colleagues, so to myself first, the question of our responsibility: are we really responsible for doing our job, have we done everything we could... to speed up the implementation of these funds? Or the most important thing is that he asks us, I don't know anyone, and that's the important question of what our salaries are. We keep dealing with this issue. Let's set one session just for wages, talk about them all day, not every session or every other session we have that topic. I think this is a subject that we spend too much time on and we need, and here's my suggestion is that we agree and we take one session apart to be a topic and talk about it all day, but then we finish it. And not at every session or every other session of the topic is our salary. Now I could also comment on some decisions of the Administrative Commission, etc., but I won't, because that would go in another direction now. But I also think they're not, I'm just going to say that they're not consistent and they're not, they're not being followed in some kind of, I don't know, here's a year ago how it was, so now and, I don't know, some future time etc. So there are jumps from one solution to another, etc. what it says is that this should be dealt with legally and regulated, not that we have a different solution every few times.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29213	It is likely that your discussion also offered the honourable MP Slavko Jovičić to say something. Here you go. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29214	I really didn't mean to pick up, but we're gonna lose, here, and because of me, five minutes, all day, and we're not gonna work this out. And what the media will end up writing 'em all the way to defend themselves'... is how we are in this House that we have the highest incomes. Here are just a few suggestions and ideas for the next session, and that will be the most read reading. On the websites all the receipts of all the agencies, directors, so you know that at the second session I raised the question and I never got the answer to the question why thousands of cars drive assistants, advisors, secretaries, secretaries, state officials, who pays, what are the savings here. So when the people see it, then let them criticise me first, and Parliament as much as we take it, and how much savings would be given to us in relation to some agencies, and even to this administration, this audit of ours, which controls all this, takes away 200 thousand marks and buys three new cars. And you're not going to read it anywhere, and you want to read the pay of the messengers. That's why I have these ideas to leave this so that, if necessary, 25 thousand pages of attitudes, not wages, but receiving Slavko Jovičić so much accomplished, but that immediately the director of the Food Agency accomplished so much, the director of the Directorate for indirect taxation received so much, so much use of the vehicle, so many representations, so many phones, and then you will see that the savings on this amendment and on this amendment are only symbolic and bring us into position to practically turn every session into an amendment of a member of the Constitution. The constitution is too serious to get into a partial settlement, ad hoc sessions from one to the other. Why have we never received measures to save 21,000 people living at the expense of this people and the budget? Where are these parameters, where are these different, I'm going to say free, wasteful, self-made directors of various agencies? If I were to ask you a polling question now to name them all, I don't know them either. There's so many of them, especially how we'll know when, what they're doing, if we don't know how many there are. So, the savings are countless, but nobody takes care of it, in the focus of the MPs, and when we don't accept this today, all the headlines in the media are 'the ambassadors, they thieves, they defend their own salary and don't give a cut'. But we will be the first to take part in it, and to resolve with those who are lower than us, who are placed above us, who make regulations without us, who spend money without any control. And most importantly, I end up with no negative report taken by the D.A. and the SIPA, so he says, this is where the thieves stole the money, let him be a clerk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29215	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and I suggest we do the next item on the agenda and take a break in two hours. Point 6. Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH (First Reading) 63 This law of the Council of Ministers delivered the Council of BiH to regular procedure 4. Nine. In 2009. As competent, the Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on constitutional basis and principles 10. Nine. In 2009. I'm opening a debate on the law in my first reading. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29217	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. So, not getting into the details of the law itself at all, just for a little while. This is the law that's on the list of questions from the Roadmap. So it's a familiar thing. And today it's 16, we're looking at him today in our first reading, and we're going to have a session of the 30th, it's about the end of the month. Maybe it wouldn't be bad if he got the green light here in the House of Representatives today, and I believe he will, then, say that those two days shouldn't be a problem. Because 15 days is an amendment phase so that we can have it again in the second reading, we wrote it in our report, the Constitutional Commission has proposed to you and to all of us and to make sure that when you put it to the vote, you know that. Nothing more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29218	Mr. Džaferović, you know that we are consciously doing so and we do not respect all the legal procedures for 15 days, but those 14 days, but so far we have done so and there is no reason not to do so with this law. He'll be 30 on the agenda. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29219	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, when we consider this law, I create a dualism in me, which is that, in some thinking, I would like a census in BiH to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29220	It's about the Criminal Law, the Criminal Law, the Sixth Point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29221	I'm sorry, then I won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29222	The next discussion is Yours, Honorable Ambassador Velimir Jukić, Criminal Law. Here you go. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29223	I'll do it very briefly. So, I think it's good that we're able to talk about this important law and what's worrying, and I think most of the people who read this in a little bit more detail, is the abundance, diversity, and especially the scale of these changes and the additions that are contained in over a hundred articles, so 114 articles, where many of them are introduced so far unlisted, means, which was a failure and a great lack of now binding and still in force of the law. I think it's definitely gonna get better with this. However, when we have this fact in mind, there is a question of the quality of our existing legislation in general, our legislation, its compliance with EU legislation and, otherwise, how quality it is possible to work with such significant shortcomings in our legislation. Like that. Here we have one, or several new crimes, among other things is the crime of tax evasion, and as far as my question is concerned, what I asked at the beginning of today's session, or the answer to my question. I again use this opportunity, when we talk about the principles of this law, to ask the Proposer or the one who represents the Proposer here - did these amendments and additions really affect broad enough and deep enough, precisely enough to again and today not miss the opportunity to include everything that is needed to be included as an amendment to this important law? For let us not forget, our courts very often and most often with their judgments etc. call for provisions of this law and others, but especially of this law, etc. And I, here, rereading one piece of this law more precisely, am not sure that it has gone back sufficiently and broadly and precisely enough to define some of the reintroduced crimes here. And here's what I like to hear, if anyone hears, and I believe that the minister of justice is here for that reason and on behalf of the promoter, to use this time for the amendment phase to really do everything that is deemed still necessary, it's still time to enter this law, to do so. Because I'm gonna say it again, I'm surprised there's been this many failures, the shortcomings in our current law. The opportunity is really to take a step forward now, I think that the competent commission will probably decide on both public debate and to get out of the field and from people, etc., from the expert community as many useful proposals as possible to make this change and supplement as much as possible and then to get along with this, and I support this, and I think it's good that we have and to adopt this that we have a really much better and better solution to at least this part of our legislation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29224	Thank you. Minister, in any case, if you want to give suggestions at any time, you say, after. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. What kind of replica, discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29225	Discussion, discussion. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, unlike the colleagues who have given their support to this law, I must say that I will not support the amendments to this law. In fact, first of all, let's clear up, so if we have a 30th on the agenda, we have 12 days for amendments, so we don't have 15 days but 12 days in the amendment phase, because the committee in charge has to sit at least on Monday so that the amendments can then be received by MPs, put forward counter-alignments or defend those amendments. So it's not possible to speed up this important thing the way we try, unless we're meant to act on Mr. Lagumdžija's earlier, to pass the law, and then we'll make it so that it can be applied, and in the meantime here's the problem of the visa regime. Especially, I don't think we should rush because we haven't even got some laws that are a condition. So by resolving the issues of this law, unfortunately, we are not going to settle these conditions, and therefore I don't think we need this thing so quickly to solve it. First of all, we must conclude that this law was declared by the High Representative's decision, so it remains a matter of its constitutional basis, we know that it happened in 2003. Later, it is true, thanks to some colleagues he has received support here and, practically, has become part of the legal system, but remains really controversial whether he had a constitutional basis at all. But well, I said, by voting here and his acceptance by Parliament, he somehow got it conditionally. When it comes to this law, I must say I've spoken to people of the profession. And that I've been given assurances, or their opinion that this law with this coverage, which it now has, entirely raises the need for entity criminal laws. And then according to that, it goes into a possible or question of need in general for basic courts there. Some believe this law creates the basis for the creation of the Supreme Court of BiH. I'm not a lawyer, but this... what I'm talking about is the opinion of the lawyers I consulted and who I was talking to at this stage. What I as a layman might have noticed here were really some illogical things. For example, in Article 42 of this Law, we have a violation, so we have a breach of the European Convention, or of Article 1. Protocol I of the European Convention, as it defines when it comes to the confiscation of the property benefit obtained by a criminal offence, defines that the court may confiscate the property benefit for which there are reasonable reasons to believe that it has been obtained by a criminal offence. Thus, the court believes that there are reasonable reasons for this property benefit being obtained by a criminal act. On what basis can the court even consider that there are legitimate reasons? What does justifiable reasons mean in this situation? We're talking about court. We're not talking about insinuations. He's also been injured by this number six. European Conventions. I'm sure this isn't how it's regulated in other countries, and if it is, I'd like to know in which way it is defined. There is, of course, no burden now because there is, that I don't burden myself, I say, because there's this second phase where we're going to talk about amendments, but there really are certain illogicalities here. 66 Let's say, let me read it for example. in Article 6 of this law, which speaks of the trial of, say, foreigners. And it is not clear at all, it is an earlier Article 9th position (4), so it is not clear why a foreigner who has committed a crime outside BiH's territory would be tried, as far as the country is concerned. What is this situation where we judge a man who has committed a crime in another country against that state and is not our citizen. And I could really talk more about this, but here's what I'm gonna leave for the amendment phase. I believe it is necessary to hold a public debate, because after the Constitution, the most important act in one country is the criminal law of that country, there is no more important act. Where will we conduct this public debate if we do not lead to criminal law or such detailed amendments to the Criminal Code? Therefore... I propose one conclusion, so in accordance with Article 114. Rules of Procedure of Parliament's House of Representatives: 'The Parliamentary Assembly brings, the House of Representatives of Parliament concludes: The Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives is tasked with opening a public debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Criminal Law of BiH. The public hearing will take 15 days." I've already given an explanation for this conclusion. I'll repeat it one more time. So, after the Constitution, this is the most important act in one country, and it really is not logical to adopt this act, without having the opinion of the powerful law offices, experts from this area, after all, the consequences of this act are really far-reaching to speed it up here in about 12 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29228	Replica, Honorary Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29229	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29230	Dear Mr. Džaferović, you didn't get the word, the first President of the House to sign up for the replica, and you will get it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, I didn't, I didn't. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29232	Thank you. I agree that after the Constitution, this law and this law on enforcement are the most important acts in one country, and that the number of treated members cannot tell us to go into any fast procedure, in terms of reducing deadlines. At the same time, I don't know how it's possible to open up a public debate about this law if we don't give it support in the first reading. So we have to agree whether we're going to go to first reading and give support, and then give the opportunity to open up a public debate. Because if you give your strong position that you are against this law, how will we vote on your conclusion to open a public debate. And I've got a lot of suggestions on how to fix this law. And I think it could be done in the amendment phase, but those same ones who sent you, they sent me, let's say they didn't treat Article 104 at all with their comments and suggestions. Look at article 104, and you'll see how problematic he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29233	The second vice-president, Beriz Belkić, is a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29234	We're gonna raise both hands, and I believe Mr. Bariša Čolak will get involved with some information that maybe everybody here doesn't even know. When it comes to transparency and the public of this document, I think it is maximum represented, this document has been working for a very long time and, as far as I know, has been on the Ministry's website for a month, so on. The public debate on him has been conducted. Of course, I don't mix it with the public debate... that we're organizing here, but anyway, I want to say that there has been no intransparency so far. If this house finds it necessary to conduct a public debate, he will lead it. However, the way Mr. Momčilo Novaković discussed it, etc., so some have told him, some have said that criminal laws are lifted, there is no reason for entity law to exist, that there is a Supreme Court. I don't think there's any argument, there's really no argument for it. I just want to remind you, therefore, the amendment phase is possible, etc. Now, this is one of the obligations, we spoke two hours ago and here in a way uniquely we were to do that visa liberalisation and, as things stand now, it seems to me that a certain non-good atmosphere is being re-created. Of course not, no, without any aspirations to discourage anyone, Mr. Živković has announced amendments, etc. Just a brief comment. When you mentioned this article in 42, you should have read attitude (2) here. You only read attitude (1), you should have read attitude 2.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29235	Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29236	Mr. Chairman, I didn't really mean to enter into this essence at all when it comes to this law. This is such a professional law, and it's so much about some institutes, is it, where doctoral thesis is written about? I don't think there's any need for us in Parliament to be able to, of course, go into the details of it. The essence of these changes is the six-year follow-up to the application of new criminal legislation in BiH, which is why there are so many changes. This practice has been written to the team responsible for monitoring the application of the 2003 Criminal Law and the new criminal legislation at all. And we have made changes to the CAP's proposal to this group, if you remember, were also a hundred and a few members to change, and this is now the result of the work of this group that has been observed in practice, a proposal for a novelty or a novelty of criminal legislation. And that's the point, nothing else. I am therefore, and also because of the fact that this is on the Map of Way laws list in a position to suggest that we already have this law at the next session, that BiH can say that it has passed this law and therefore I do not think there is a need for a public debate. I asked the Ministry's representative on the Constitutional Commission if she agreed to a complete follow-up group, unanimously. He says he is. He says this is a unanimous, complete group, from all layers, they are in BiH, both professional and ethnic and intellectual, all of them. Has everyone in BiH agreed on this? Next, he says they are. Any objections, anything? He said there was something with the OHR, so we talked to OHR, and we agreed on those views, and now there's nothing to argue about. So the profession and I identified it, I asked that question, as soon as I heard whether or not there was a problem, I know how it would be in Parliament. I'd ask the minister to talk about these things here, it's actually the most important thing. And I beg you, therefore, to conduct a procedure, I have nothing against a public debate, but it is not possible to carry out it if we want law 30. That's it, thank you. And it's been done practically already.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29237	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29238	Well, you see, I'm surprised that esteemed colleague Džaferović, who, by the way, in this area here, I think that... we can very hard mate, state the view that such changes of this law do not require a public debate. Regardless of the need for him to be, I'm now saying, there's a need for him to be passed, but unfortunately, if we bring him in, we have some laws we haven't even got yet, and we need to pass. And even if we bring him 30, what about the ones we haven't even seen here and the Council of Ministers hasn't adopted? So it can't be a reason to get bad law, it shouldn't be a reason, a law with these consequences. Of course, I don't think the law was non-transparent, I just said that we should now open a public debate on this law. Just because he was on the page means no one was hiding this law. I don't think anyone was hiding it, and I didn't say it, from anyone, and he was nowhere near 69, and I don't know where he wasn't public. But also the fact is that the draft law was not involved by those who could contribute to the quality of this law. And they did not participate, nor did they consult. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And it's not true, here's what it says is who the consultations were made with, and it's not said anywhere that it's in the way that my colleague Džaferović said. So, there were consultations on the team. Normally, the team does, it's perfectly normal for the team to consult. And the OHR had objections and they were all adopted. And that's the most important thing. If most importantly, then the most important thing is that we adopted OHR's remarks. The fact that we could get some more and we didn't give it up for public discussion - that doesn't matter. The important thing is that we adopted those remarks. So, of course, I have to say, I have made it clear, and I will repeat again, if the law passes in the first reading, I have suggested a conclusion – public debate. It's not the opposite of what I said I would be against the law in my first reading and I didn't invite anyone to stand by me against the law. So, I suggested that, if it passes, it should be given a warrant to the Constitutional Commission to open a public debate. I don't see any problems. Of course, like everything else, this can go through and not go through. I've expressed my view, it's not in my head, that once again, I say, it's not in my head, and not some of them said, "Here, gentlemen, what I have here is a page of objections to this law. It's not the law, it's the remarks, and there's more of them than... the law. And someone didn't say it there, but I didn't say the names of the people who wrote this because I don't think it's important that I present their names here. So, very serious people have made all these remarks about this law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29241	Thank you. Next for discussion is Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29242	Dear Chairman, I can't remember exactly what session it was last year, but half last year I suggested one conclusion, and this House of Representatives adopted it, 70 where I sought maximum penalties for the most serious forms of crime. So, to create for our institutions the prerequisites to deal with the mafia, thieves and those who threaten the security of this country. And in these new changes, I haven't noticed that she's given enough attention. I'll just remind you that that's when I asked, and I repeat, the House of Representatives adopted it in the conclusion that for the most severe forms of crime, so terrorism, drug trafficking, trafficking in white slavery, rape of those children of seven and eight years of age, etc. and the greatest of these monsters to get maximum priority in the amendments and additions of the Criminal Law, so that the public, especially our agencies, who are fighting these monsters, would always say that their hands are tied, the prosecution, and the courts that they are not able to prevent or at least try to prevent those potential perpetrators from speaking these maximum penalties. So when a 25-year-old guy knows he's going to get 40 years for drug dealing, he's going out at 65, so if he's so brave, he can deal with it, but if he knows he's going to get a six-month sentence, and he's going to make six million dollars on drug dealing, which he won't. His risk is worth it. But that's why we've predicted new crimes, this Internet and that punishment, I don't know who the judge and the prosecutor would suggest such punishment to. Guys, I'm going to make the amendments, and I just came to remind you that this House of Representatives has adopted that conclusion, but it's not given any attention. I advocate that this state has, through this law, maximum mechanisms to stop thieves, mobs, criminals, terrorists, and anyone who threatens the safety of normal citizens by the neck. Whatever the state is, it's great, but it has to have even stronger mechanisms to break the mafia in its root, so that that citizen of ours doesn't fear whether he's gonna send a child to the store or to school to get blown up by some fool there, a terrorist. What are we afraid of? Whose kids are these? Are those kids from that poor girl from Derventa who's never gonna see this Parliament, who's crying today about being their nine-year-old child and that idiot, I don't know what to call him, getting parole six months? Who are they going to talk to? If it were, God Bog, one of our politicians would be sitting here for five days, no one would go out. Here, today we don't have one MP here and no one asks what's missing, no one. He didn't sign up for absence, and there's a reason why he's not here. Here, I have no reason to ask about him from some of my other private ones, because I don't speak to a man at all for reasons I had, an accident, because of something I think I find him responsible for. So, what's the problem with this country? Mr. Minister, I will certainly make amendments and ask and insist on getting through this Criminal Law and getting rid of us, as a legislative body, the pressures of those who constantly honor us – well, you know, you've tied our hands, we can't do anything. Not in the judiciary, not in the prosecution, not in the court, especially the police agencies. What are we afraid of? Why don't we do it? The mafia must fall, the state must break the mob, thieves and criminals, and there's nothing more to do. I just want to remind you of this, not by harsh intonation, I'm saying so, but I'm going to make amendments, and I hope that we're reasonable people, that we're not doing it for the sake of the MPs here, but it's doing those poor people and the misery in Derventa, and I don't know what it's called over there, that I'm not talking about right now, and now somebody's going to bring up what I'm doing... it doesn't matter, or whatever it is in Brcko, or anywhere on my Palam, wherever it is. Every pedal is my country's pedal, wherever it happens, we're dealing with that mob. And how? By normal law, not just by improving and cosmetic changes, and now it takes someone 20 years to get what he sent me on the Internet 71 threatening messages. Well, half of them would be closed, 'cause every day I get so many hundred messages like that. But it doesn't matter what I get, I care about those mothers and what I see on TV, who complain that for a nine-year-old child, he got six months probation. It's a disgrace to this legislative authority who hasn't predicted a 40-year sentence, so let's see what happens to him. So when the prosecutor doesn't press charges and the court doesn't sentence him to the maximum sentence, then I'm gonna raise the press and resign here, but I'm gonna raise the people to the rebellion. That's enough, we have to break the mob! But how? With this law?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29243	Thank you. Next up for discussion is Ambassador Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29244	Thank you, Chairman. Amendments to this law, not only did it require... which lasted, but the corresponding protocols, international conventions that are binding on us and which are expressed in two requests through the map of the liberalisation path. Namely, we are required to take measures taken to harmonise the legal framework on the state, entity and level of Brcko District in relation to the criminal acts of human trafficking – this is one requirement. Another requirement is measures taken to bring the legal framework in line with international standards in the area of confiscation of assets and harmonisation between state and entity levels. So these are two requirements directly formulated and containing international standards and which can be implemented, firstly, by amending the Criminal Law at BiH level and secondly by harmonising entity criminal laws, Brcko District law and BiH law. And, given the request to bring amendments to the Criminal Code, so we have three requests in the Map times directly related to this law. The adoption of this law means the implementation of three measures, a failure to implement three measures. I think that everything that is necessary, as can be achieved through public debate in this period, is absolutely possible to achieve the amendment phase, after the law has been available for a long time, after the role played by those who participated in the draft law and after all of us have our little public debates in making amendments, to be honest here and to be clear. It's not an argument – we haven't passed some laws, they haven't even come into procedure, so we don't have to do this law. The argument is completely opposite. Every law to be passed, compared to those not passed, reduces the number of laws not passed and increases the chance and makes the report better at the end of September. So I think that, given all this in mind, it would be better to define ourselves at a commitment to the amendment phase to try, however, to do this job by the end of September. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29245	Thank you. The Honorable Minister had a need. Here you go. Bariša Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29246	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs, I'll be very brief. I just want to tell you what has been done so far and how it has been done to understand all of you. Indeed, the process of making changes and supplementing this law was more than transparent in what the Ministry can do. You know that the Monitoring Team for the application of criminal legislation exists yet, this means from 2003 until now, here are the six years, and that they are closely monitoring the application of this legislation and, of course, they have the task of changing both procedural and material legislation. The team is made up of 17 people who are waved experts from the judiciary, the prosecution, so I mean the Supreme Courts of Entity, I mean the Court of Appeal of the Brcko District, the Court of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the High Judicial and Prosecutor's Council, the Ministry of Justice and, of course, lawyers also on the team. It is indeed a team that is multinational, so also from the RS, from the Federation of BiH, from the level of BiH and Brcko District. Long time to make changes and supplement this law. Over a year, believe me, it's been working intensively on these changes, and the tracking is a few years. In this procedure, we have come to this conclusion that, indeed, even after those consultations that are mandatory to this ministry, after the law was on the Ministry's website for more than a month, this team sat down again, discussed these remarks, agreed on everything and, ultimately, agreed on those who participated and did not come from BiH, it is the representatives of the OSCE, OHR, EUPM and the Council of Europe. So, in any case, I don't want to say... that these are ideal changes and additions and away from me being able to say yes, we're now done with this law and we're not going to change it anymore. Life is much more complex and I don't know how much change and supplement it will take, but this is one living matter. And countries in the environment are doing it, and not just countries in the environment, believe me, that's what EU member states do. I say again, I do not claim that these are the most ideal solutions but these solutions are such that, to a significant extent, they do significantly correct so far solutions, both through new criminal acts that are prescribed by this law and... criminal acts that have already been prescribed but through the tightening of penalties, both the legal minimum and the maximum. I, too, want to remove any suspicion, indeed, that this law, in any way, raises the question of entity laws, criminal laws, the same, and the establishment of a Supreme Court. So in no way is this law implicated by the establishment of any other court. That's really true. What Parliament will decide and how to proceed, of course, is in your hands. I would like to ask you, if this is in any way possible, for this law to be supported in the first reading and the best solution would be if that law could be passed by the end of this month, and you know for what reasons. Here, that's what's short. 73 Of course I could now be about the solution if I asked such a question to discuss, but, in any case, here is what I could have noticed at the very shortest, what you actually said here today and without, of course, any ambition that I could have answered to any of your asked questions, but I appreciate that this amendment phase will also give me space and opportunity to make things even more better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29247	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We're taking a break till 3:00. At 3 p.m., we'll get back to work. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow Members, before we moved to the 7th item of the agenda in the College, we agreed to work until 6:00. In case we don't finish the whole agenda by 6:00, Parliament will be proposed to vote for the session to end and continue on the next Wednesday, voting before that on the legal projects that we have been through. That's why I'm warning you to adjust your discussions to our intention to finish by 6:00. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29251	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for not repeating that, Mr. President and the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. When I read this law, I'm made of two myself. In fact, I have a dualism that I would like and I would like the census to be carried out in my country and, secondly, that I would never vote for such a discriminatory law. If we think about it first, then I have to say that it would be moral, ethical, just that this law or census happens when the Dayton Agreement that is an international agreement is fully implemented. Someone will say, and we hear on TV, say, agree, do this, do that, and representatives of the international community are not paying attention to having greater powers in the Dayton Agreement and greater opportunities to implement the fullness of the Dayton Agreement by now. It's not moral to make a census when more than a million people are out of the country. But aside from morality, take it either way, he's not in practice, but unfortunately, there's not much justice or justice. About that, by that. I would agree to a census like that if the law were just to take those parameters that are relevant to planning in the state, which are relevant to the development of the state or parts of it, it doesn't matter, to the smallest units, not to say local communities but to the municipalities. But such a law, which primarily discriminates against the most vulnerable population in BiH, completely excludes it. It excludes the list of people who are refugees, displaced and exiled. People who didn't go away with their guilt. People who don't have the right to return to their home because they haven't got it yet, it hasn't been built yet, it hasn't been restored. And now such a group of people are excluded from the census, and, on the other hand, this law allows every stranger who has been here and has lived for over 12 years to be listed in the census. And now I'm making a conclusion out of it. So someone cares that there are political premises to make this law, so that the law is done before the implementation of the whole Dayton Agreement, each of its annexes and, on the other hand, before the new Constitution is made or until we agree on a new Constitution. What does that mean? It means it can cause major political problems. Someone's gonna say it here. That's what the Bošnjak are up against. There's no reason the Bošnjak are afraid... of the census. I do amateur demographics, amateurs mean, I'm not a professional, although I used to work and demographically work certain areas, and I know for sure that there are more than 50% of Bošnjak living in Bosnia right now. And why would they be afraid of the list? But that's not fair. It's not fair for every man, no matter who the people belong to, to keep a list without him having the right to sign up where he was born, where he lived until '91. A year, where he wants to live tomorrow. And that's why I don't think this law should be supported in this form. I think even he's in my interpretation of the Constitution and he's against the constitution, because he doesn't care, and we heard today that some MPs swear to human rights, and he doesn't care about human rights. 75 And the third thing, in this law, which is written in a karadic way, a lot of things can be abused by censusors and those processors and even us politicians, when it's over. For these reasons, I will not vote for this law and I will be against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29252	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29253	Therefore, the SDA will support the position of the Joint Commission, i.e. to reject such a proposed census law. We know what happened in BiH between '92. and '95. Over half the population has been forced out of their homes, out of their homes. In the following years, the reintegration of the company, namely the implementation of Annex VII, was prevented. The Dayton Peace Agreement. Active means, so I'm thinking of attacking the returnees. And it was successfully prevented back in those old age. And then it went to passive measures to obstruct Annex VII. The Dayton Agreement that is being carried out in such a way that very small funds are allocated through the budgets. You can't single out a million marks to bring back a million returnees, so one brand per returnee's head. It was one cynical relationship compared to the implementation of Annex VII. and the most painful issue in BiH. So people didn't come back to their homes. Srbin in the Federation, the other two peoples in RS. If we were to pass a law like this that would... so write down a state currently in BiH, which would not allow the diaspora to be listed, we would be involved in sealing the segregation bh. companies and in fact would accept the results of ethnic cleansing. So, the SDA will support the Joint Commission's position.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29254	Replica, Honorary Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29255	I simply did not want as chairman to warn MPs to go beyond the agenda. Gentlemen, then we should say here that we are against the census, not that we are against the law. If we're against the law, we can solve it in the amendment phase. Tell me which parts of the law isn't good and we'll try to solve it together. So, don't argue here for two hours, if you're against the census and you're stating the reasons why the conditions haven't been met for the BiH census. I understand that, but don't waste any time here, so we're wasting our time discussing whether we're on the list or against the list. Here on the agenda is the Proposal for a Census Law, let's discuss the law, see which principles are not good and whether there's a possibility that we can agree together on the amendment phase to fix that law. If that's not there, why waste time today? Then you're against the census and so to speak out loud. Thank you very much. 76 Replica, honourable MP Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29256	We won't say, Mr. Živković, what we don't mean. So we'll say what's in our head, not in your opinion. We're not against the census. We need this country to list the population for planning. But it's been two years since we said we'd be against this population list, we've repeated it a hundred times. So we said ok, we can also accept a list like this, but please law on proportionate representation which, among other things, will make it possible for the Srbin, Hrvat to return to this town of Sarajevo, not to call it Muslim Sarajevo. So you turned down that law. So we said we need a loan, a significant international one, which we're going to implement as much as we can. We can't do everything we can to implement Annex VII. But we can do what's left. Another 140,000 people want to come back. Well, this loan, it's been stretching like a ribbon for a year, it's got nothing on it. We warned in time, and I don't know why this proposal was made. It was well known that we would refuse such a law. We can repeat the law, make a compromise without amendments, so that in the first reading it will be properly set up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29257	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29258	Thank you, Chairman. Since you made us feel that way at the very beginning, I will immediately say that the BiH Party supports the census. And we will also support the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission. There is a constitutional basis, of course, for the census to be carried out. Why? I don't need to, if specifically explain, we haven't had data for 15 years that are very important in almost all economic fields, which are part of the system of national accounts, methodologies... including production per capita, number of employees, participation, for example. the agricultural sector, etc., the percentage of the urban population, without saying that there is a risk of BiH losing its ability to benefit from dedicated loans and investments by both the EU and the UN and other international organisations and institutions that are usually managed by such data and which are directed by individual funds, for example. in municipalities and local communities that have a specific target population structure. Therefore, the Party for BiH supports the implementation of the census, and we believe that it is necessary, but provided that such a list is carried out according to EU criteria, namely EUROSTAT and the UN, i.e. the UN Population Fund. I am really glad that we have the exact same attitudes with the SNSD, I hope that you haven't changed them since exactly one year and 13 days ago, when, on 3 September, in particular, you, the chairman, sent a proposal for an initiative with a proposal for a conclusion and in an explanation and the initiatives mentioned that, I quote, 'the list in all countries is organised by statistical institutions in co-operation with other bodies, in accordance with the methodological recommendations for 77 censuses and households, in brackets, the UN Economic Commission EUROSTAT, in June 2006, closed parentheses, point, completed quote. This is the SNSD's explanation. I'm really glad that we have exactly the same attitudes here and, here, let me remind you of those who may not be dealing with this problem – what does that mean? These criteria make it very clear between the mandatory content of the list or the cor topix and the optional content, i.e. non-cor topix for the census. They specify, for example, that data on ethno-cultural characteristics, such as nation, religion, race, origin, language and the like, are not relevant for demographic needs and that as such they are left exclusively as an option for the countries implementing the list. So it's about non-binding elements that are here and the subject of the dispute, which we have succeeded in the first discussions to hear. When it comes to the fact that countries can use such data for their own purposes, let me remind you that almost all representatives of international institutions in BiH, among other things, EU officials, the UN, etc., have specified that the population can be listed without these characteristics, namely non-binding ones, and these officials have added "that BiH should follow examples of European countries which are being treated by ethnically, culturally and linguistically in some other way, and not by the census", the quote is completed. I will only remind you of a very important resolution, i.e. the document, of the recommendations of the resolution which were also an integral part of the monitoring of the report in the Council of Europe when, among other things, the recommendation set out that the methodology for the collection of separate data is used, this is in our translation, which, even with an official explanation, for those who do not know, given that it is a professional area, with an explanation here in the signature, for example, detailed what the methodology means. It is recommended, therefore, 'to use this term', to propose a census, 'where ethnicity, those who correspond, will not be taken into account, so as to avoid the designation of ethnic changes in the population structure that occurred over the last 10 years'. It's a finished quote. So, to go back to the non-cor and the cor elements. There are eight categories containing mandatory characteristics to have a list. It is of the total population according to the usual residence, geographical features that include the number of inhabitants per locality, as well as the number of people per job. Third, demographic characteristics, including sex, age and marital status. Economic characteristics, including current levels of business activity, interest, belonging to the industrial sector and unemployment data. Fifth, educational characteristics, or school preparation. The sixth, data on international internal migration, including birthplace, country of citizenship, data on residence outside the country and years of entry into the country, previous place of residence and years of arrival at the place of residence. Seven, household data and family characteristics, including the link between household members and the length of household life, etc. And eight, data on housing, type of accommodation, and accommodation arrangements, including accommodation arrangements, location, occupation, type of ownership, number of tenants, etc. Let me mention, among other things, that, with all these features of binding and non-binding elements, it appears for all European countries, especially those declared as candidates and future EU membership, which, among other things, relate to the methodology of the 78 European system of national accounts, that the Statistical Office of the European Communities, or EUROSTAT, collects and publishes statistics from Member States and countries outside the EU, i.e. from international organisations, to inform the EU, i.e. institutions and enables the monitoring of the effects of Community policies. In this respect, for EU Member States, the relevant Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council is No 763/2008 of 9 July 2008 on the census of the population and households, which lays down common rules for the supply of data on the population and households. In accordance with Article 2 of that Regulation, at which you, I mentioned earlier, have called for a national level as a territory of a Member State, regional level and levels of NUC1, 2 and 3, i.e. the nomenclature of statistical and territorial units defined in the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe 1059 since 2003, i.e. specifically on 26 May 2003, or local level, or divided into UAL1 and UAL2. Among other things, it was established in 2011 as a reference year and an annex to the Regulation sets out the data relevant for the census as mandatory at the regional level of NUC3 and local UAL2 are, for example, the place of residence, sex, age, marital status, etc. The mandatory data for national and regional levels of NUC1 and 2, place of residence, place of work, sex, age structure, or marital status etc. are then determined. Mandatory data shall also be established for NUC3 and UAL2 and mandatory data at national and regional levels of NUC1 and NUC2 in which there is no national, religious, religious, etc. in a set of these data. belongings. So, colleagues and colleagues, the Party for BiH believes it is really necessary for BiH to enter the census, handling only the criteria prescribed by international organisations, which, among other things, establish a framework, i.e. the foundations that give and the final figures in the system of national accounts. What European institutions have identified as binding elements for all levels of government, binding on the EUROSTAT methodology, which is an integral part of the European system of national accounts, and we will support the regulation that contains all these elements. Beyond that, only if there is any agreement, a common consensus, such as Let's say a question... put in the census, for example. Do you trust politicians and politicians? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29259	Correction of incorrect allegations, chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29260	Obviously, it made sense for me to come out and say that we were talking about the law, not to talk about whether we were in or out of the list. And you, which I am very pleased, have entered into the essence of the law and discussed the principles and have practically touched the two members of the dispute that represent the problem for you. This is a Article 6 or 10 respectively. I don't see the problem with us voting on that law and trying to change it in the amendment phase. At the same time, I want to correct you. The conclusion you quoted wasn't adopted here and I'm standing behind it, and every word I wrote would be rewritten. In that same EUROSTAT, other than mandatory and optional points, have recommendations that are well written, that countries that are multinational and have more nations need to make that list. That's a recommendation. If she's already well-intentioned, why don't we apply her. In addition, in Article 10 of this Act, it is 79 university, you have the right to choose whether to sign up or not. And that's the form she's holding. At the same time, if we're going to quote EUROSTAT, then we have to say that according to EUROSTAT, the person who has one country for a year, is a constantly populated person. Then we can't say from EUROSTAT we'll take some, and we won't take some. So I'm glad we started talking about the law. I see we don't differ in a lot of things, that it's a matter of one or possibly two members. No Niko's written and had any problems with what the agency is doing so far, as a list form... whose owners are... etc. etc., financial resources. Obviously, you've only focused on one or two members and I don't see the problem of voting on the law and trying to change it in the amendment phase. Thank you. Dear MP Azra Hadžiahmetović, guilty of allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29261	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I've really read the argument that you've given in time for the conclusion, I haven't said it was adopted, but I suppose since you belong to those who don't change their minds, you couldn't even change this argument because it's so strong that it doesn't have, I mean, you can't change it. Therefore, exactly in line with the methodological recommendations for the European Commission's population and household list of the European Commission and EUROSTAT of June 2006, I added these numbers a little later, given that there was a change in EUROSTAT. So I discussed the principles, I didn't focus on any concrete member and I said the position of the Party for BiH when it comes to the Bill on the Census List. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29262	Thank you. Let's move on. Discussion, Honourable MP Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29263	Well, congratulations, fellow Azra, I congratulate you for being on the census, and I congratulate you on this report that is against the census, the report of the committee in charge against the census. So I don't think we really have the need for this kind of lab, eight, ten minutes, etc. Actually, we all know everything. So here it's simple, so you're afraid that the list will show that there are too many of us, we're afraid that the list will show in your way that we're gone, and that's all the point in this story. And I don't know why we're dragging things to other topics now. And it's obvious that there's no consensus on this and we really don't need any elaborates, we don't need an invitation to European standards, because we're not ready for this job. I don't know why we Srbin stuck so much for this list? I don't get it, really. If no one needs this list, we don't need 80 of this list either. There's as many of us as there are, and there's as many of us in power as there are. As agreed to sign up, we will be the same again, because by 2014, there will be no change in government, and then by 2014, we will agree that there will be no change in government. And now, when I add all of this up, I really don't understand why we're making such a big deal out of it. Now that there will be consequences for some other powers that are not of this nature, gentlemen, it must now be thought by those who are not for this. So they'll have to take responsibility for these other consequences. I don't think this is the time to look for who's guilty because the law didn't pass. Maybe it was time to look for a variant to pass the law. It's been a while since we've been looking for a variant of the law to pass, at least according to these discussions of colleagues I've heard so far, and that's why I don't think we have, I repeat, we don't need to, and that I wouldn't deny myself now, so I talked for eight minutes that we don't need to talk for eight minutes, I'm going to finish this discussion. Clearly, I'm not in favour of the Commission's report, I repeat, competent commissions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29264	No throwing, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29265	I think we've always considered the committee's opinion. So here we are considering the opinion of a competent commission that is negative. So I'm not into that negative opinion, although I repeat, it's not clear to me that I'm stuck with not being negative about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29266	Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29267	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I could expect anything in the parliamentary procedure, but I really couldn't expect one such law bearing the name 'The Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in BiH'. I think that when his goal is looked at and the essence that he can freely be called the law on legalising ethnic cleansing, genocide, changes to the BiH Constitution, etc., because his census is the least of the problems with this. A law that is so innovative offers us some categories, such as the usual place of residence, which I first hear about, which is a census, and a law that doesn't even care that in this country 2.2 million people have been moved from their hearth, that many have not returned, that from the last census so far violence against the demographic structure of BiH has been made, and that this law, which bears the name of the census, has a direct impact on the position, constitutional position of BiH's constituents. And this is a change of constitution another way. Those who write 'The Census Law' must be aware of that. Because when the BiH census is completed tomorrow, the results of the census will be directly related to the position of BiH's constituents on various issues. It's just that there's a head stuck in the sand, there's a law that's been written, these terms have to be explained to me, and these things haven't been taken care of at all. Let's say that at the end of 81 laws it was written 'this law... and after this list the results of the '91 census. The year will remain valid for the calculation of the participation of the people in power, we could discuss the principles of this law. Then this law in Article 5 wrote as the former Yugoslav law at least wrote. Here, therefore "The Official Journal of the SFRY", 19 January 1990, the Law on the List of Populations, Households, Apartments and Agricultural Lands in 1991, says: "The SFRY will implement the list from 1 to 15 April 1991, the census of the population, households, apartments and agricultural holdings", and says, in Article 2. "the census will include, firstly, the citizens of the SFRY, foreign citizens and stateless persons who have residence in the SFRY, whether they are in the SFRY or abroad." And our Article 5 of this proposal here says: "The total number of inhabitants for each territorial unit is obtained by adding up the number of persons who have the usual place of residence there and are present as well as the person who has the usual place of residence, but are temporarily absent" and then taking a year off: for that one has to stay a year to be considered normally present, and must be more than a year out that it is not available at all. So, to us, compared to one model from '91. year, and we live today according to the list that's been done under this law, so in relation to what the list is about in life, right, we're proposing a model for us to list who's in BiH now, to see if anyone who's been in BiH is here for a year and he's okay, a year or more, and to see if there's someone who's left BiH by chance, but hasn't been out all year, so let's take him on the list, and everyone who's gone over the year, Allah has been Bog forward to you, I don't know you, and this is the law that offers a census, and doesn't include their citizens, shame. This is the leap that's packed into the celephane of the law, and that's why this needs to be knocked down as soon as possible. The census law does not cover its citizens and does not cover the category of residence. We in our laws, which speak of parent records, have terms such as citizens, such as residence, home office, residence. Every BiH citizen living outside, he has a residence in BiH, and his residence outside is no matter how many years or ten years he has been out. And they're listed here. Look at the SFRJ law, and according to it, the BiH Census Act, on the organisation and implementation of the census, and here are the principles. See what this law says when it comes to their own citizens working abroad, who work with foreign employers, says, "The federal body of the administration responsible for foreign affairs organises and conducts a list of citizens of the SFRY at work in diplomatic, consular representations, in their own companies, mixed companies, their own banks, their own financial organisations," and in a member of the following, says "the federal organisation responsible for the affairs of statistics carries out a list of all citizens of the country who are abroad, whether they were self-employed or employed by someone else or were unemployed". We are therefore offered a law that proposes what it proposes. And tomorrow, when this law is passed and the census is carried out by this law, the results are as they are. So we're going to be able to tell right now about what the results are. Constitutional issues will be raised, as the composition of a state-level body based on the Constitution in '91 will be asked about entities. 82 There are governments that are set up on the basis of the results of the '91 census. A year. So there will be a question in other bodies, in the judiciary, in the courts. So a question will be raised as to the position of the constituents, hence the constituent peoples in BiH when it comes to the law. And that's why these issues have to be resolved by saying that the '91 list. The year remains in force regardless of this list, and this list must be done by writing BiH citizens. So the words citizenship and residence are two key categories that you must respect, without which there are no lists. The rest is all random stuff. So much the least I had to say about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29268	Thank you. And here is the director of the Agency, Mr. Milinović. Do you need to explain this law, since it is obvious that everything is becoming a concern that has eventually passed on to EUROSTAT's views, in order to perhaps prevent the other MPs from discussing it, or do you want to say something in the end?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29269	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29270	Come on, come on in. Director of the Agency. Mr. Milinović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29271	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, the Interresor Working Group when it was working this law was managed by the Council of Ministers to draft laws by EUROSTAT standards, means to include all EUROSTAT standards and to include a national, religious and language issue. That's the law that's been made. In the work of the Interresor Working Group, a representative of EUROSTAT took part on two occasions and, this is all that Mrs Hadžiahmetović said, this is all true, so these are precisely listed in the recommendations of EUROSTAT and the UN, i.e. the regulatory UN regarding the census, and also in Article 4 which provides definitions, i.e. Article 5 which speaks of the category of total population is fully in line with the standards and recommendations of EUROSTAT. So here are the full definitions of EUROSTAT in terms of categories of what are permanent residents, i.e. the other definitions given here in these recommendations, i.e. in regulation there is an even wider set of definitions which we did not include here, but we have committed to using them. The total number of inhabitants, meaning category of total population, is a category that is clearly copied from EUROSTAT standard, which does not mean that we cannot list other categories of inhabitants, but cannot enter the total number of inhabitants,... which we will be delivering to EUROSTAT, which we will compare to other countries in both the region and Europe. So they only accept this number of inhabitants, that is, the total number of inhabitants that are defined here in this Article 5. 83 We were also trying to install provisions to write, to say conditionally, the diaspora, but it is so difficult to define the work itself how to do it. So the DKP is the only way. If we can and if we have these capacities, it's now up to the Foreign Ministry to say it. But in the Interresor Group, we couldn't find an adequate model of how to do it outside, in such a short time to write down residents around the world who, I say again, cannot enter this category of total population. So, we have fully respected the definitions here, i.e. the recommendations and EUROSTAT, which does not mean that we cannot put in place some of the issues that are of interest to BiH, which also enable recommendations and directives.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29272	Thank you, Director. If there are any more questions, we'd like you to get involved. Replica, Honourable Ambassador Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29273	Now, it's awkward, there's no colleague Džaferović, and I had a replica of him. Only to continue the debate so that when counterpart Džaferović arrives, there would be none. Oh, there he is. I wouldn't do it without Šefik to discuss less important things, let alone important things like this. Is that okay? Look, there's a few illogicalities here. So we need to be clear, and those who don't support the list must clearly define what they really want. So there's no list without a list of all citizens. But there are lists if they're not expressed by nationality. It doesn't matter that he's not from all countries. There are no lists if participation in power will be different than in '91. But there's no problem with the list if we don't touch anything around the government, if everything stays the way it was. Meanwhile, counterpart Ajanović says there are more than 50% of Bošnjak, which means that the guarantee is that Bošnjak will have greater involvement in the government if the census is carried out, according to his modest demographic non-professional analysis. So I draw the conclusion from this that you have to define what the problem is here. Nothing else, just to see what the problem is. And if we can solve the problem through the amendment phase, let's make it possible for the amendment. If we can't, people, solve it, so don't deal with this issue for the next month, let's finish it today. You shouldn't have knocked it out on the Commission, you should've let it pass here, so today you've got the majority to break that law, and we're gonna finish this story. This is how we get that thing back to the Commission again, believing that we'll make a deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29274	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29275	Just for a little while, so let me refer to the agency director's presentation, shall I say. So, the Agency is doing its job,... although the Agency is the author of this law, this is the problem of the Council of Ministers and my criticisms are directed towards the Council of Ministers, so to the institution that needs to look at the political dimension of this issue and the situation in BiH. EUROSTAT cannot be applied to all countries equally, not respecting the situation of these countries, and must be taken into account in each country, and that is the problem. But that's the question now, so it's us. My remarks are facing the Council of Ministers. And the other thing, Momo or Mr. Novaković, I apologize to you, is that this law, whether we want to tell me or not, through the question of the list, solves constitutional issues, does so. We have hundreds of laws that say participation according to the last census. As soon as this is published, this will be a benchmark. That's the problem. Don't we have to recognize that? Let's make a real list as an economic, social and developmental category. Let's list all the citizens. We can't list our people who are abroad when they're expelled from this country. Today's democratic picture of BiH is not a demographic image that has been created naturally since '91. the year to this day. It's a stylish demographic picture. We can't stick our head in the sand and not see that fact, and therefore apply EUROSTAT and say that half a million people, who went out for it, will not be listed. We have to keep that in mind. Let's say, here's the list, and here you go, the BiH population, there's no problem. Participation in power, we have '91. So we'll talk about it in BiH. And then we have a list as economic, social and developmental, and through this we're going to get, in fact, through this we're not going to get anything from it, but we're going to get a list as a political, first-class constitutional political category. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29276	Thank you. I warn the MPs to turn to the microphone when they say that the stenogram could be clear and that we could then extract the stenograms as needed. Replica, Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29277	Thank you, Chairman. I really did have a need, even though I don't use it often, but I teach this. The system of national accounts is one thing, here is Mr. Milinovic, because he is breathing with it, one of the newer macroeconomic disciplines that has developed since 1992 when, among other things, the SNA 1993 methodology was adopted, when all statistics of all UN members are obliged to move on to a new methodology for calculating national accounts, and we have had a long-standing problem until the Statistical Agency was formed, here is Mr. Milinović to confirm. They have been working successfully lately and have already applied the SNA methodology to the extent that it can be used without data sources. You can't know that two and two, or you can't determine 85 is the result of three plus two plus three, or four plus one, or some combination, without the exact data. You see, someone may like it or not like this methodology, but it's not the subject of debate. What's binding, these elements. If necessary, I will read the binding elements individually for each level of government. Binding elements are not subject to dispute. We can appeal to something that might have been a better solution in '91. in the census, but a new SNA methodology, a colleague of Džaferović, knows the concept of residence, where exactly what a country resident is, or what a non-resident is. Our country's resident is our staff employed in our DKPs, or embassies, no matter how long he stays for over a year. Our country's non-residents are all those who live for over a year in our country, but work in embassies from other countries. For example, we can't talk: we want EUROSTAT, but we won't take everything from EUROSTAT, so we'll take some of the old methodology. Two methodologies were previously, before SNA 1993, which is a unique methodology for calculating national accounts, both eastern and western variants. If so, we will, in which it is different, but I just want to mention, here is something very important that my colleague Džaferović has drawn attention to, and that is..., what Mr Milinović said, the Council of Ministers has commissioned the Interresor Group to make a proposal for a law in accordance with the binding methodology of EUROSTAT, etc., and what is controversial, and this is in accordance with, that is, to carry out a list of national, religious, non-binding. Now, here, let's talk a little bit about whether we will go in line with European standards, what European standards oblige us to do, because we can't apply European standards a little bit, a little bit, or not apply them, and we want to talk to the EU. So either we will apply the European methodology EUROSTAT, or all those binding elements, and beyond that only if there is a consensus on what is optional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29278	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29279	So we will, colleague Hadžiahmetović, apply EUROSTAT. It is not possible for EUROSTAT to drive half a million people out of the country, to be out of the country for over a year, and then not to be residents of EUROSTAT. If it's by EUROSTAT, then I'm not for EUROSTAT, and I say it's not for EUROSTAT. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29280	We're continuing the discussion. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29281	The census in any case represents the most extensive statistical survey from which each country receives a large number of data on census units, such as residents, households, families, apartments, as well as a number of other data. And usually the normative framework for such one activity is the law on censuses, households, apartments, etc. Respecting our case and these recommendations from the UN and EUROSTAT Economic Commission. A census of every country in the world is needed, and in this respect BiH is no exception either. However, the fact is that BiH is not in a position such as other European countries and the biggest problem of the law offered like this is that it did not respect BiH's specificity, even in the most minimal form. BiH needs laws that bring people together in this country and that serve to normalise relations. However, as the story develops for more than a year, this law has already been presented in public that it is not in this function. Not entering the reasons for today's condition as it is, I want to say something contrary to what we've heard in this debate so far. I think the result of the census, in case we introduce this category both national and religious, that it will absolutely not please any normal man in this country or any people in this country. I don't think he'll be happy about the Bošnjak either, someone says over 50%, etc., maybe the second question is how many territories, some say only 25% of BiH territory. Not this census, but we also know it without a list of approximately basic contours, will not delight the Serbian people in BiH, because when we make a list in Sarajevo, so let's see how many Srbin were in '91, how many of them are there today, we'll get back to, probably, the devastating data. They won't be happy about the Hrvat, just to get away from the Bosnian so we'll see what kind of data we can get. But it's interesting that, when I looked at one of my colleagues before me, he talked about how it was regulated this question in the last list conducted by the former state, when we look at the lists they conducted, here we are not going far, the neighbouring countries, here are Serbia and Croatia. Here's an example of how Croatia did it. In Article 6, we say what will be covered by the census: the following topics are covered, so this strange formulation of 'place of habitual residence', etc. The Republic of Croatia, for example, said in the following way: 'The list includes persons, and that', so it states 'nationals of the Republic of Croatia', and I immediately ask the citizens of BiH, foreign citizens and stateless persons who have residence in the Republic of Croatia, whether at a critical moment they were in the Republic of Croatia or abroad. I read what it's like in the Croatian law of 2001. You cannot find such provisions in this proposal. Why? That's a special question now. Another important question is raised, and that is why individual political circles, including individuals, insist so much that we make the ethnic or national census in BiH. What are real motives, what are real goals, what are the ultimate intentions of such a list? You should try to answer these questions as well. However, when you look at the reasons why this law is passed, I must say that I am truly surprised by this reasoning of this law. It literally states here: 'As a result of the war events in the BiH area, in addition to the significant changes in the population structure, there has been a change in territorial deployment. Data 87 from the future list will point to the consequences of migration." Be careful, the term'results of migration'. Again, the next paragraph reads that 'war activities and destruction have led to large internal and external migration'. Can we accept such an explanation and that everything that happened in BiH just happens to be referred to as 'external and internal migration'? For the first time in one law, I've seen such a committed argument. And if I hadn't seen this in this law, I'd probably never have heard until now that everything that was happening back then is called 'internal and external migration'. With such an explanation, someone who would look at this law on the side might think that this was a land of booming democracy in the last two decades, flowering. So what Karadžić and Mladić did, and they did genocide in Srebrenica and numerous other war crimes, cannot be called migration. It wasn't migration, and that's a fact, and that's the International Court's verdict in The Hague. I am afraid that this list wants to be used, however, in the function of further deepening ethnic divisions in BiH, and in recent years in this parliament and this country we have not received any evidence that this problem has been well-intentioned. That it thus shows the fact and explanation of those who want and insist solely on the BiH ethnic census. Very often they say, well, every country should have a census. And they forget that here, here for years and even in recent months, we haven't even been able to adopt the text of the BiH state's anthem. They forget that each state should have an anthem text, but the state can't have an anthem text, but let's write it down, and so that as much as possible in the future, we can manipulate certain things. I think, therefore, that this law must respect the specificities of BiH, it must respect some real facts and that, without embezzling these specificities in such a law, it is absolutely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29282	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, look, I don't think the census is a circus so it makes someone happy or not happy because that day was a bad show. At the very least, it's unserious to say that he's going to make someone happy, someone not, and he's going to argue that he's not going to make anyone happy. I am only interested in what criteria and criteria Mr. Bećirović has given such an assessment that he will not make anyone happy. The census and not to make anyone happy, no resident looked forward or had reason to look forward to the census. It is something 88 that is normal in every democratic state and something that needs state, entity and other institutions to be able to work in accordance with the law, European standards and all that is necessary for a single country, not because it makes someone either happy or not happy or that day gets a colorful lie or a lollipop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29284	Here, now you'll get an answer that they'll be happy about. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29285	I give up until further notice.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29286	Thank you. Next up for the discussion Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29287	I will be brief after Dr Ajanović said most of my discussion. So I'm also on the list, I understand the importance of the list for accessing funds, for projects and everything else, but I'm not on the ethnic principle, because they're not EUROSTAT's views, and they're not binding on BiH, and that's what my colleagues said. In my opinion, this proposed law is bad, catastrophic, because it is discriminatory because in this Bill on List there is no list of meaning bh. Diaspora, and other than diaspora, all those outside BiH have been excluded for more than a year. I'm going to say example one, there's an example in Prijedor. from Kordun, Banije and like over 30,000 that have moved, they would have entered this list, and half a million from all over BiH, from Krajina, there are many who went out, exiled, expelled, would not be covered with this. Also in my sanski Most, where I was born, there were once up to 30,000 Srbin, now there are few thousand of them, so the demographic image would completely change. Obviously, there's some background behind this to see how much this ethnic principle doesn't oblige us. Also Annex VII. We know that it has not been consistently implemented, we know that no revised return strategy has been adopted. I support it means the discussion of our colleagues from the club, Azra, and colleague Ajanović said more that I do not speak. So, in my opinion, this law needs, but this ethnic criterion... _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] What? _________(?) 89 [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29290	Don't throw it away. Don't get distracted.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29291	I said picturesquely. I do not support this way – Prijedor, Sanski Most – means it is not this half million, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29292	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29293	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, BiH is unfortunately one of the few today, not to say, and the only possible state in the world that is unknown to the population. With the surface and some more basic information about the state, it's a fundamental thing that anyone who wants to know more about that state wants to know. The estimates of the number of residents that we use today are fco sleeves and objectively we adapt these assessments to a greater or less extent as it suits us. There have been various controversys about the BiH census for a long time, and this is why it has been unnecessarily created by confrontational environment, and with all the divisions we have, it is real and divided into those who are for the census and those who are against the census. In divisions and labelling, it goes so far that those who support the census declare themselves to want to confirm the results of genocide and ethnic cleansing, that they want to discriminate or undermine one people in BiH and what not. This really doesn't make any sense, I personally threaten genocide and ethnic cleansing and anyone who has anything to do with it. And I'm threatened by every form of showing and encouraging hatred and division among people but, for God's sake, in the 21st century, I want to know how much my country, my entity, my canton, my community and my local community have, what their demographic and other structure is. BiH also has huge damages due to the incorrect display of the population, as all indicators of the population resting on the population estimate that we are doing so so far are doubting. We liked it or didn't like it, but I believe that we are not at all comfortable listening to the comments that we do not know how many residents we have and we are not naive that we do not know that almost a quarter of the application forms for EU membership refer directly or indirectly to population data. Whether we liked it or not in the census, we are obliged to use the already mentioned rules and standards of the UN and the EU. Of course, no one slows down certain 90 specificities that result from the war tragedy we have experienced in the near past. There must be a compromise about these specificities, because we cannot put off the census indefinitely because we are not usually ready to talk and compromise or because we are exclusive in conversations. I'm sorry, but for the absence of talks and compromises on the census, the most responsible parties are the parliamentary majority and the government in this country. And for me in this law, it is terrible that hundreds of thousands of BiH citizens who have not lived in BiH for more than one year will not be found on the census. It is clear to me that most of them are those who have been expelled from their homes, and it is not a small number of those that the social emergency has driven out of BiH. With all due respect, it is absurd to expect the census to wait for these citizens to return to BiH. True, and a number of these citizens would return to their hearths, but this and previous post-war authorities did not stop to provide them with conditions for their return and life. Let's be honest, at least to ourselves, most BiH citizens who have stayed outside BiH for more than one year today would not return to BiH, and if they provided him with everything we can. Why would you stick your head in the sand in front of that truth too? I have at least 90% of my family members and my close relatives. Despite this truth that certainly hurts, I personally am not in favour of disowning these citizens and citizens, and there is a need to compromise how to list these citizens and our citizens. These citizens are BiH citizens and rationally, and it would be acceptable for me to sign up as BiH citizens with a temporary stay outside BiH. Although this is a temporary relative thing. If we could agree on this, the further question is how to do it technically. As far as national and language definitions are concerned in the list which is a major stumbling block in the adoption of the census law, I personally think this issue is politicised and is an integral part of the political struggle to place people in national cargo. For me, the issue of national and language determination is a private matter, and every man and citizen of BiH has the right to determine or not to determine, or to determine what he wants. So, with all the restrictions and dilemmas that I have, I think to question the 2011 census is not rational and it is not well-intentioned, and instead it would be reasonable and rational to remove disputed provisions of the law in the amendment phase, making sure that the census has to comply with UN and EU rules and standards. So, I will support this census law in first reading, because blocking this law today seems to me to be blocking another tape of the European pathway of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29294	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29295	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. You want something, buddy? 91
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29296	Please talk to me for a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29297	Yeah. We have an extremely important law before us, because of the high degree of complexity it cannot kiss or leave, because of urgency it could, but since the complexity is higher, then we cannot adopt it too quickly. Yes, he definitely needs it, he needs it for international reasons, some state-law reasons and real reasons. However, and whatever reasons it is, each law must be in line with the BiH Constitution as well. It must be in line with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms and, unlike other countries, our law of this kind must also be in line with the Dayton Peace Agreement. It's perfectly natural that it also implies compliance with entity constitutions. I don't usually refer to entity constitutions often, but there's no reason why we shouldn't mention it, because yet, one of these laws has to be consistent with the entity constitutions, and I'm sure I'll have a sensitivity to this kind of thinking from colleagues who think that entity building this country is something that's important. Also, this law must be in line with European principles and give us answers on how to have tools and mechanisms to write homework on this European path and on this map, as it is already called. I believe that the national and religious definition in this country, regardless of how people looked at it, even when there was an ideological need for denial of national and religious, was then national and religiously written in the lists. And there's no reason now that the time has come for a full affirmation of national and religious freedoms to now run away from such a question. However, it should be put in the overall context of the Constitution, the Dayton Peace Agreement and its behaviour in line with European standards. I think it is particularly important that this is the case for one sensual one, and I am sure that the ruling parties will especially have the sensitivity to be treated nationally and religiously as something that should have full affirmation, and not that there is, whether there is, to be a mechanism of manipulation. I'm afraid the way this law is set up here, however, opens up enough reasons to suspect even the intentions of whoever wrote this law, which could not be called manipulation. I think it would be very important for us here to answer a few questions that are somehow hanging in the air. You know that in this House we have been manifesting ourselves on our time agreements that have mentioned the broader issue of signature as elements of an important agreement of part of the ruling parties. I understand why colleagues from the SDA now have objections, because there are 500m euros missing that should be in function of return, and I completely understand and they are absolutely right. I think it doesn't matter to you, colleague Džaferović, whether it's a mark or a euro, I think even with 500 million kuna you could do more than you've done in the last five or six years, for starters. I'm afraid 500 million kunas from this parliament have not been separated in the last seven years for which a credit arrangement should now be launched. That didn't stop us, did it, to have an arrangement with the IMF, which is five times more expensive than that arrangement. So, there was: that there was good will and seriousness, it could have been within the framework of an IMF arrangement just one small fraction, 20 percent of the IMF's arrangement could have covered all of this and that we don't have a problem here today. But I don't want to talk about it right now. 92 I would remind you, perhaps to the gentlemen of the SDA and some, at that time there was one HDZ, true, it does not commit politically, but obliges them legally. Namely, they are bound by the Constitution and amendments to the Federation and RS Constitution of April 2002. Let me remind you, at that time, by the decision of the High Representative following the BiH Constitutional Court's decision on the equality of the people throughout the territory, the High Representative then made two decisions. He made two decisions because there was a parliamentary majority, but there was no House of Peoples in the Federation, as I recall, colleague Lozančić might know it better than I did, because then he seems to me, yes, yes, in the previous, I apologize, you were the president of the House of Peoples in the previous assembly. Namely, then, the SDA and HDZ did not support constitutional amendments on equality, and that is an old story. But let's forget it for a second. The fact that the current legal situation is such that our entity constitutions have been changed by the decision of High Representative Volfgang Petrić. So, I know what I'm talking about, I've been involved in this, and I've had this conversation with the High Representative at the time recently, just to level down whether I'm right about this way of thinking. Naturally, in such a position that he can't talk about it now in a way that he would be, whether he's natural. In fact, it's 19. 4. 2002. The decision to amend and supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, with a special decision amending the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, on the basis of the 27th agreement. 3. In 2002, most parliamentary parties, including those that promote such a law ahead of us, which is contrary to those decisions of the High Representative. Namely, by amendment LXXXV to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, I quote: 'Constitutional peoples and groups of others will be proportionally represented in public institutions in the RS. As constitutional principle, such representation will be based on the 1991 census until Annex VII is fully implemented in accordance with BiH state service laws. Public institutions are: RS government ministries, municipal authorities, districtal, municipal courts in RS." They are not republican courts and prosecutors because they are directly specified by the Constitution that they are ethnically distributed within themselves. By amendment to the Constitution of the Federation of BiH and the amandman to LII, Article 11a) and the same decision by High Representative Volfgang Petriča, I am not telling you now, the same thing is said not only by the RS but by the Federation. So, then, when the gentlemen from this party here, gentlemen from the SDS, SNSD gentlemen, PDP gentlemen, the NHI and other parties then supported this and then there is a stone of interference, and the gentlemen from the Party for BiH, Beriz very well knows, the SDP only supported it because of this decision by the High Representative, this member who says there is no law that treats a census that is not '91. until a decision is made in this House here and by the Peace Implementation Council that aneks vii.. Gentlemen, the law you have before you is contrary to the existing legal system of this country. The law you have before you is contrary to the entity's constitutions made by the High Representative, which means that it is contrary to the decisions of the international community, verified by the Peace Implementation Council. ... I believe that the people who write on behalf of the international community will be able to convey this well, so responsiblely I claim this law is completely, I'm surprised to the High Representative, maybe the man sees this coming down, so he won't get excited, but if 93 of this shows up on the horizon, we'll be looking for an indication from the Peace Implementation Council. This cannot be done, a law cannot be passed in this House that directly undermines the country's constitutional arrangement, including the constitution of both entities. What is also unacceptable for us is that in Article 12, and I also remind you that in the constitutions of entities, just the ones I read, the constituent peoples and groups of others, go to the website, you will see – the others with a large O. I guess the lecturer saw it, and he knows what he saw, because it is the category from the Constitution of BiH. There is no law on the census, such as Article 12, which, besides the constituent peoples here, only sees the protection of national minorities. The protection of national minorities is not controversial, but the law, leaving it to sublegal acts, I know that some people here don't like politically that there are people who feel like others, I know that some people don't like that there are people who plead as maybe Bosanac and Hercegovac, etc., but it's a political fact and it's a constitutionally defined category. One such constitutional option given to humans cannot be denied by the list. So Article 12 has one essential, and that's, we can discuss it, we can pretend to be fools like some people do and ask -- and what's left of it for you. It's a large number of people in this country who won't,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29298	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29299	...that they are not allowed to do such a thing, and that is why they are guaranteed the right by the Constitution. As regards Articles 4 and 5,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29300	Lagumdžija, can we extend the line one?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29301	Here, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29302	Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29303	So Articles 4 and 5 are totally unacceptable for the simple reason they're throwing out, they're simply throwing out a huge number of people who haven't been in this country in the last year. And there's a lot of people like that who haven't been here in the last year, and the citizens of this country, they come here, they have their own property here and they work outside and they come here. As the old Yugoslavia or former Yugoslavia did not throw the gastarbitters out of its lists, so we cannot throw people out of the list who escaped from the knife and the slaughter, and now they are if at least economic immigrants. And finally, Mr. Chairman, I suggest we return this to the Council of Ministers with the suggestions they've heard here and have two possibilities. One option is to get the national and religious membership out of the list, this is one option, there is another option very simple, to respect these other things, therefore national and religious membership is important: that this list law is defined in transitional and final provisions that the results of this list will be applied on the day of the decision of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that Aneks vii.. applied... for national representation. So when that happens here, when those 500 million kunas of yours, the stamps, the euro, they stream here and go through this, then we'll be fine, and we can do it by 2014. So I don't see your reasons for insisting on this going like this, that by 2014, you 500m euros don't run to the returnees, and this Parliament as its great success for a hundred years since the start of World War I realize that we have ended Aneks vii.. And that the list applies to the last whoever is then. Now, this is a constructive contribution to trying to get out of... this problem that I see will lead us to the fact that you don't have a majority for a law like this, in which we certainly aren't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29304	Thank you. You've spent one replica. Dear Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29305	Dear Chairman, right away, let me say that the replica is not just about Mr Lagumdžija's exposure, because looking at the schedule I have no more people to replicate to, so here's a moment for some who have previously told me to replicate to them. So this is where we've been calling all day on the '91 list. A year. I'm asking you, and I don't know if you were present, if you know, and I am, any institutions of the BiH state, then the Republic, have not verified the results of the '91 census. A year. So they are invalid, as soon as no one has verified them, parliament and not even government, so no one. They're invalid. What do we do now? Let's move on. This country's constitution is based on the consistency of three peoples. We bring down the Constitution if there is no constitutionality of the people. Then what about the Constitution, how will the country operate without the Constitution? And all this Mr. Lagumdžija said, that's great. Well, it's not a bill of law, so let's say let's take this point off so for the next session. This is what we're going to have in 2011 or 2021 or "two thousand never" when we're gone. So that's it. Furthermore, not to get carried away by illusions, as little children, the list will be when aneks vii. is respected. Annex VII. It will never be respected, not that we are against him to honor himself, because it is impossible to honor him. So I welcome Mr. Izetbegović's idea when he says, "Come back, Srbin!" Oh, Mr. Izetbegović, stop what's going on today, don't bring back those who are gone. That's impossible, people have sold houses for a variety of reasons for 20, 30,000 marks, now that you want to come back, here I am, I need 500 thousand euros and, how much, that professor said kuna, so countless. So don't, people. Although, for example, one group says of 10,000 people, publicly: we will never return to BiH. And we condition that there are no lists on our return, no lists ever again, that we don't lie to each other. And we keep calling for honesty. The list won't be because you won't and I don't know, and I'm joining Mr. Novaković, and I don't know what we want. So I'm going to suggest another modelity, I'm going to write my own from the Pala municipality myself private. And I'll know exactly how many residents there are because I'm interested in the student and university center so I know how many there are and I don't need your money. I don't need Niko, 95 or Mr. Milinović or your agency. You'll see I'll do it successfully. And everyone else will accept that model of mine. I'm a verifier myself, since I'm the government. Come on, guys, let's not get carried away, there's two dilemmas today. We're like saying something or we're gonna support this, two parties are leading said no. And now we're all going to conclude together there's no list and what we're going to do now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29306	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29307	I'm done, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29308	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Replic or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29309	Well, here's how my colleague Jovičić said there were plenty of discussions to be discussed on, and the question of whether or not it makes sense to replicate. But I'm going back to Mr. Lagumdžija's discussion today when it was the point of visa liberalisation and, as you can see, it's now a completely different discussion. What he was saying now has nothing to do with what he was saying today. And that's the essence of the whole story. From these two discussions can be drawn next. We will be forcefully admitted into the EU and we can afford these mangulls of these and those species, one returning to 80, one in '91, one of them having these observations now according to these constitutions, according to this whole story, the common denominator, means we don't need this, and we simply don't care about this European story. We have more important ideas and principles that are more important to us, and it is my only suggestion that this applies to every item of the agenda. So there's no way that tribes can go, because they count on fingers, because they count on balls, which someone would take. So let's leave with our fingers and our balls and we'll live in that sort of time as it fits, '88, some '91, and someone next. So we've had countless seminars, countless people from Europe who know what's being said here today and these hard words, here's how I don't open up new replicas and all the stories about how and why. All of them, gentlemen, heard it in one ear, and dropped it on the other, all these nebuloses and stories, because they're serious people and because they made it clear when it comes to a list of what the list is for. But here, the result is quite clear, but I'm just adding that story. So this isn't the only place we've sent that message. Now we've deepened it, so in some ways we'll be dealing with some of our questions here, entertained each and every one of us in their own way. There won't be a list, there won't be no law, there won't be this, there won't be that, there won't be anything, gentlemen. If you don't think there's going to be any of this, and there's going to be something you call a state, there won't be a state. What do you mean, if this isn't going to be anything? How? What's a state? Some empty shell, it's imaginary, what a state without institutions can look like, without lists, without laws. 96 _________(?) No anthem? No anthem? I agree. Yeah, well, I totally agree, here I am right now, and Denis was having a discussion, so I totally agree with him. If there's no such thing, there'll be no state.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29311	Time! So that's what Adem Huskić's gonna do to us now. Here you go. Did you get that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29312	Did I get my word?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29313	It's for the replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29315	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29316	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29317	It's not you, it's not. I, here, would support what my colleague Lagumdžija said, but here I am taking the opportunity to... smuggle myself in like this, this dragin replica. But I also have a dear replica. Look out, Drago, the state was before me and before you, and it'll be after me and after you. Therefore, let us not now give ourselves the meaning of determining whether it will be or not. It will be, drago, so we don't worry. It's gonna be me, it's gonna be these. And... when we talk about this law, let me take a chance. Look, we, and Mr. Milinović said about this: that the Council of Ministers tasked with making a law with EUROSTAT plus. Now we're only arguing about the plus. So far we've always had some European standards minus, so then we've been trying to push ourselves to come to be a European standard of zero, plus minus zero. Now for some reason we're going to the European standard plus. I don't know why we really need that plus. And if it wasn't for that plus, we wouldn't be talking here right now, we'd be passing the law without any debate. I think so. And so I realized to Mr Lagumdžija, to return to the Council of Ministers, to return this to EUROSTAT without a plus. _________(?) 97 [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, it's fine, it's fine. And all the stories of those who have disputed the law are going in that direction. So we can very simply solve and I suggest that we make such a conclusion: to make the law, the law equals EUROSTAT plus, minus zero, and there's no big story. If we go plus, drago, remember when we passed those laws on police reform, which some today mentioned in a negative context, I think we did well because we got a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. But even then some asked for a little more, so you said, "What do we now set ourselves more goals than Europe has given us?" Well, I don't know what we're setting them up right now. So I suggest we have the same principle, the same relationship as then, to go back to that EUROSTAT plus, minus zero, and to finish the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29319	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29320	And I'll do the same for a while. So, my Kalabić, the state has always been, and it will be, much stronger faces and statesmen have tried to share Bosnia and have failed, and so it will be in the future. For those who love this country, and praise Bog, there have always been more of them, and there are places, and those who do not love this state, my Bog, have a wide field for them, and for me. I do if I don't like it, I'm going out. There is no force or power to destroy this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29321	Thank you. Replica, dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go. Wait a minute, we're close to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29322	What one would say, I can destroy it either theirs or our fools, is it? So it wasn't my intention. I know that Kalabić often something is not clear, I also know that even when it's clear he likes to pretend that he doesn't understand, because he thinks he's so much smarter. But to clarify what I said and to repeat the principles that I said and stand behind. It's perfectly natural for me to discuss this point of the agenda and the man is absolutely right, I don't know if it was clear to him, but he was right when he said that my discussion of this point was completely different from the discussion of liberalisation. So the man is absolutely right. Imagine what a fool I would have been if I had repeated my discussion of liberalisation. Here, this man would probably accuse me of repeating the same discussion, that it's actually the same thing. And now he's accusing me of not saying the same thing. Or, what my friend Beriz would say, is, the SDP is aligned, we've aligned 98 principles. This is from the point of view of the principle as well as from the discussion on liberalisation. And otherwise, as far as our principles are concerned, when it comes to the list. So, a list that, yes, for a list that... would now be supported by MPs from the SDP and people who think in this way there are three conditions, three European conditions. First, to be or go to the list without a national and religious definition, which says, is, is, is without a plus or... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Wait a minute, no, no, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29324	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29325	So, I've said three conditions. The first condition, the first condition without national and religious membership or with national and religious membership and transitional provisions which say that the list will apply in the laws in accordance with this Parliament's decision when this Parliament decides to apply aneks vii.. or, that's what he says, that the train has passed to be applied further. That's the first principle. The second principle that has nothing to do with national belongings is to allow people who are constitutional categories: others to be a matter of law. And the third thing is that the gasgasters, the olives of BiH citizens, are covered by this census as citizens, i.e. residents of this country, because they have, watch out, live right in BiH. They have the right to live in BiH no matter where they are. And they have the right to vote in BiH no matter where they are. And that's why we let go of these big stories about genocide, aggression, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29326	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29327	It stands, but it doesn't lead us anywhere. So, I'm for a list with a very clear... And that's why I asked, I'm sure if the people of this profession would be given the green light to do this to make them a better law. The other thing is, they had homework to build a law like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29328	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29329	Now, Mr. Lagumdžija, what a fool I would be if I fell for your demagogue. And it's getting more or less, fortunately, there's less and less of those who fall for your demagogue and those three that you're now selling on the same discussion. You've ironed the SDA today, because they're the only ones you can still spin around your little finger, and every day you drive them to some other water, I don't know why they have to agree to those games of yours. How, if they'd just done two things, we'd be in Europe. That's what you gave us today's lecture. And today you're writing us a manual for the asylum, that in 2014, we're just thinking with Gavril princip, those footsteps and what's going to happen, that we're thinking about whether we're doing the list of other things and then Europe, right, 2038. And this morning you told us that it was a mistake and a fault that it wasn't over and it would be over, here's one, I don't know, we'd be in Europe in October, visas and, I don't know, the rest. I think, Mr. Lagumdžija, you should look at that kind. As long as you go with that demagogy, it usually goes in two days, not the same day. It's a lot to talk about in one day and give us lectures. And you're sending us today a message that in 2014, we're thinking about whether aneks; and I'm asking you about that hole in that whole of your story: what if no one makes a decision, what if no one makes a decision that you now sell to us? It means swamp for the next 100 years. Mr. Lagumdžija says, since we won't have a consensus here that Aneks vii. is. Done, because, according to him, no one can get anyone on the list, so they can't even get them on Annex VII, so there's no decision and there's no new story. In 2047 we'll meet again and see if, as we stand with aneks vi, as those... SDP organisations, former communists, meet and say we've decided there's no Bog from tonight, that's our decision. If we don't make the decision, we'll be back in session. Now, that's how Mr. Lagumdžija tells us today. You know, aneks vii.. Says 2014, then we'll do it. And who can swallow the story that without a list and what the list follows that we can talk about a European story. If you had just been silent this morning, I would have told you about this discussion today that it makes some sense, especially to throw fellow Bahtić that you are also for the list, and you have been doing it so much that I don't see any chance of being anything, because I understood some political parties that if a member there had been a changed list going. I understand that there's no way in hell that there's no way that there's anything that you've explained and argued, or that's a price-lifting thing here, which I may not understand at this point, but it's an internal thing that's none of our business.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29330	Thank you. We're moving on to discussions. We have, the next one is Savo Erić. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You've spent your right. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29332	I'm up already.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29333	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29334	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29335	Mr. Chairman, I suggest we schedule a five-day assembly and clear out from '14. And then we'll see what year to go. And I especially think that these nationalist parties, as they already call them, have no chance, but these socialists have taken over such rhetoric that they are these little kittens. As far as most of these discussions were concerned, I agree with the discussions, and with the way we think from these discussions, I absolutely disagree. What's evident is that this commission will be dealing with this law again, so we don't waste our energy. And what's important -- so we all have a chance to sit down, write the amendments on two lists, and, so as normal people, we say what we think and get along. We need a list for a number of reasons, and we are particularly full of the mouth of the European Community, the European way, and then when it comes, there is no opinion here, then we have to throw everything under our feet. What most people said today that a large number of people advocated for people who went outside, these people don't think to come back, most of these people separated with this BiH citizenship, took the citizenship of other countries, and they are here just tourists by their name and family in a coffee shop with a glass. The Srbin and the Hrvat and the Bošnjak, the Musliman, are legally in debt, as you will. In many countries, they have taken citizenship and their children do not think about coming back. As for those of you who are gasterbackers, we agree, supplement them with an annex, we will absolutely support it. But what matters is, _________(?) SAVO [[no microphone turned on]] To the amendments yes, but what matters is if we don't do this and figure out the future, as soon as the road opens, we won't have half the residents, who would now apply, will take citizenship, and in the future certainly won't. And most important detail, this fellow Dolić said a lot, so let's see how many of us, where we, how many households we have, how much we owe per capita, most importantly, and how much more do you think you owe us until this 2014, do we have a chance to get it back, that 101 is the most important question. And let's see why we planned this money this year that we spent on the Agency that... solid people did this job. The next year 10 million should be spent on this story, so when we spend that, then we'll say, hey, wait, we have more important questions, we'll just skip it... together. So, gentlemen, there's no going back. When we proposed budgets and resources, we knew we'd get into this story, and you should have prepared yourself then. I, my opinion, so absolutely this agency has made solid material, there are plenty of possibilities here, you need to work it out. Here, which means who has the objections to show, but one way of thinking is left flexible, and surely we can't get to the material that satisfies everything, but if you criticize Article 6, you have the opportunity to support Article 8. And do not take anyone's right to plead. Let it be declared as anyone wills, leave the possibility of one, the other and the third, and there's no problem at all. And do not take anyone's right not to plead as Bošnjak, Hrvat or Srbin. If that's what he wants, why? But I'm telling you, the most important question that will happen to us is the issue of debt per capita. And if we keep on philosophizing like this, we're gonna get to the point where we don't need a list, it's gonna open up, people are gonna leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29337	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29338	The Honorable Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, of course, is a very important bill which is seen by today's debate, has a strong political meaning in BiH and each uses it in its own way, each interprets this issue in its own way, and most of all, when we listen to discussions, they are based on strong political messages of gleaning fear among BiH's citizens. So we haven't gone anywhere since the '90s when the way we think in our heads on this space is present. So, regardless of what the Director of the Statistics Agency has made clear to us about the principles on which the bill was made, and I think that he, therefore speaking for the SNSD, is the acceptable principles of this law as a whole. We believe that there are opportunities to improve through the amendment phase and to reach a certain consensus for the Bill on Census of Population, Households, Apartments and others in BiH, that besides Eurostandards, there was also a standard that speaks within the BiH state which is constitutionally structured that it is impossible to imagine a census without therefore ethnicity, i.e. belonging to constitutive peoples, religious, linguistic, because this is an extremely sensitive issue. For most people, it's a completely marginal issue. But if the majority of people have no sensitivity to minority constituent peoples, then that's a problem in a complex state like BiH. If you were to ask anyone, here, there is now absolutely no difference in the political opinion of any member of any political party in this matter by Bošnjak. If you ask now members of the Serb people, or Croatian, then everyone will tell you that's an important question. And then the Bošnjak, conditionally said Bošnjak, will apologize, say it's a verification of the war of the founding state, I don't know, crime, to genocide, etc. And then it will appear, in a certain 102 sense, another fear... no, you want a unitary state in which there will be only one people, just one language and only one nation. So these are the problems that we keep moving away from each other about. So it's such a complex question that you can't now convince any ordinary average Srbin that that's what you're talking about, is what they are. And why argue with someone to plead so? I am deeply convinced that through this data we will come to an understanding that is tragic for the whole of BiH. Strong forced ethnic migrations are present in every part of BiH territory. For what? Do we now want to cause, say, another evaluation, which I consider politically not a solution? We'll make a list in one entity one and one. No, I don't. The SNSD's goal is to list, as part of the political agreement, in the entire BiH territory and the goal is that these data cannot be misused for what is tragic in this past, but for the future of this country. In what? In an action plan for strong affirmation of the right to return to every person living in BiH's territory, to allocate funds for strong economic development to anyone who lives anywhere yesterday, and Srbin in Sarajevo, and Srbin in Tuzla, and Hrvat in Derventa, and Bošnjak in Zvornik, and Bošnjak in Vlasenica or Bratunac, and not to mention any of these places anymore. A second story is just a pure political story, a manipulation of what we're talking about. Furthermore, what is our commitment to EU membership for a country that does not have 20 years of census? When will the next list be? Is it gonna be another 10 years? Whose goal is it to deceive each other about the list? Can we not define, or disable, abuses on any side? We can have a political conversation about anything about this. Which is why we are prejudged the census by constitutional changes, and we are unable to respect at least two, let's say two amendments to, I don't know now, the implementation of the European Charter of Human Rights on how to elect members of the Presidency. So it's a high and strong degree of politicization in which each, as any of us advocates, becomes a national hero in its own story. It's going to be, these papers and this story that we're talking about right now, you know, not ethnically, we've had the rest of them, but let's not forget all the elections since '96. To date, in 95% of the cases, by voting the adult population, we had an ethnic commitment. Let's look at the statistics! We'll see clearly what it is, for adult people. Let's remember, I can't, I'm sorry, maybe I'll make a mistake, that 500,000 people pleaded as Jugosloven in BiH, that BiH was the only one of the republics of the former Yugoslavia that pleaded so much, I may have exaggerated the figure, but I know it wasn't a meaningless figure. '91. That's how the year came out, '91. years or '90s. The year before we came forward, we had a full ethnic count of BiH citizens in the elections where all this story of belonging to others completely fell. Sure, I'd just like to come back, so for us, if I didn't explain, so I'd like to stop in this House waving constant hate and bloody T-shirts, constant stories about all this, it's unnecessary. Everyone has their own story about it, everyone's saying this, everyone's scared of this or scared of that. Let's see what can unite us in this country in a common story. If we have a goal towards a European path, I think we should discuss this law, get to the point where we bring it. If we leave out that possibility in 2011, whether we go to 2021 or in 2015 when we get the conditions, but we will face reality. This reality of ethnic cementing, a war-stricken state, has been doing all the political 103 peaks since '96. To this day. The formal story to the international community was we want multiethnic BiH, but all of us needed votes, right there in those wheels where we were present, our ethnic subjects, unfortunately, so... So we created it in BiH, nothing else, every other story. There have been attempts, of one, of imposing a forced solution on the side, and, of the others, no, we don't accept it. So BiH must create as a common state. I will just say that for us, the opinion of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development is unacceptable and that the SNSD will vote against this so negative opinion. Also, Mr. Chairman, we believe, this is where I respect the position of the Constitutional Commission of our Parliament to respect this conclusion that, among other things, the Constitutional Commission will be in charge of matters beyond the future of this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29339	Thank you. The first vice-president, the esteemed Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29340	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests, we have been discussing this issue for a long time, and everyone for the list. I've never heard anyone say it wasn't for the list. Here I belong to the category of those who think it is necessary to make a census in BiH. And, listening to all of you, I'm thinking about what the problem is. Is the problem with European standards that most of us here don't know, but we call on them in this area, or is the problem in fair and unfair intentions, or what we see as a possibility after a list of results has been completed. When we look at everything we've heard, and those that are for European standards but to include something other than European standards, whether otherwise or not it's allowed as a college, regardless of which, we see that there are intentions and fears, in the most positive sense, that someone will manipulate the census results, whatever they are. And, I agree, if we execute the list in accordance with European standards and EUROSTAT standards without what is permitted, no ethnic statement is prohibited, I am convinced that there will be manipulation. It's not manipulation, it's abuse. That's why I'm against it. If we execute the list and give the possibility of a citizen we list to say, among other things, what is ethnicity, I am convinced there will be manipulation and such data. It's a matter of choice of which kind of manipulation to define ourselves. If we all agree that we need a list, and I'm telling you again, we need the list as a statistical economic and social category, so to speak, here's what I might not have chosen, but you understand what I mean. So we need statistical indicators to know on what basis we're going to plan everything in other countries based on these indicators. Our ethnicity – unlike other European countries where European standards have arisen – is also a constitutional category. And maybe the Constitution doesn't match us, it's not possible, but 104 certainly doesn't comply with European standards, but here we live by it, so maybe we should wait until we change the Constitution, and then we should do a list. Then we could set this thesis – it might be good to wait and do nothing until we change the Constitution. Let's keep in the session to bring about a new constitution that will remove all these problems, shortcomings, contradictions, etc., and then I believe that it would be much easier for us to pass all these laws that we are discussing, here is a lot of time, although we seem to be needlessly bothered by the fact that these data and without these data are being manipulated. So in this country, everything is manipulated. If that'll be the reason we don't pass this law, okay. Let's cut ourselves short today, and we won't, because in order to prevent at least one manipulation, we're going to have to figure out whether it's greater benefit or greater damage. I don't think it's a shame to make a list. I think we should make a list. I personally disagree, but since I am not, unlike some, a significant acquaintance of these EUROSTAT standards, I am not, some terms are not in line with the rest of our legislation. Now, there's something to change. Nowhere in our legislation, at least so far I have not come across, possibly somewhere, there is no terminology to say the usual place of residence. Maybe it doesn't comply with European standards. We even have laws on residence, a law that has in its name the word residence. Maybe he needs to be changed – if I say again, I'm saying this with a spare – then tell the law about the usual place of residence. My place is clearer, my usual place of residence is completely, to be honest, confusing, the usual place of residence. Look, really, you can abuse that formula so much up to your unconsciousness, so to speak, and caricate. Further, which is not acceptable to me. We have defined foreign persons as persons to be listed. So a foreign person is said, and so are those who cross daily, etc., who are here at work, etc. Civilians, civilians, but we're for those, and I don't know how we'd recognize these others now, what we're saying is they're like BiH citizens. We just called them people. So, we didn't even say they were domestics, we said these were foreign, but we didn't tell them if they were domestic. What does it mean to be a domestic, I think? And why, I can't believe that it's contrary to European standards, so I guess the logic is that we write it down first, I'm talking about my logic, the citizens of this country, and then foreign people who, in this or that job, are staying here for a longer or shorter time, and here's some other civilian persons who are tied up, in a certain way, so to speak, with the territory of BiH. It's not just us, I mean, it's not just us, because often when we want to blur something out, so counting on everyone else reading a little less, then we just call on European standards and count on us to explain everything. I do not think we should or should not go in such a way as to defend certain solutions and we must not fear that there will be manipulation, and solutions that are good, which will ensure that we have real state data in this country on all the elements necessary for the planning and implementation of this country's legislation. No matter how painful they'll probably be, I agree with those who said there's no reason to count on them to be thrilled with the results of the list, unless they're sick. So there will certainly be a lot of information to be warned about for all of us, warning, if what we know by now is not enough to warn and I certainly advocate that they should be written, so however implementing or linguistic it should be incorporated into the law, all BiH citizens, both those who are constantly resident in BiH territory and those who, for various reasons, are not to mention, are not permanently resident in BiH. Thank you very much. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29341	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jozo Križanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29342	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm thinking so little about how to start this without taking up a lot of time or repeating what my colleagues have been saying before. But I've got a thought, said one friend, says this power of ours for every solution has a problem. Really, when you look really not only at this example, we tend very often, instead of having some things previously a little debate, agree, agree, enter into Parliament here, and then try to argue with it from all corners. I don't know, what my colleague Lozančić said, that anyone is normal here, at least in this room, against the census as a one-of-a-kind need for BiH to come up with relevant and necessary planning data, as they say, of all policies. That he can communicate normally with the world, etc. It's a shame the census wasn't made 10 years ago, maybe 15 years ago. And then, on the basis of the facts, certain policies would be much easier to build, much more understood the problem of exiled, displaced, etc. And now it comes to me very hypocritically, here, forgive me for this expression, that today we are talking about to prevent the census, because the return is not over. And for 15 years to come back, money was promised, years passed, nothing important happened, and in the final phase now, when unfortunately, since that return very little remains, it is now being planted as the main political problem for the census. You see, ethnicity is our constitutional category. How are we gonna make a list without that information? But what is a fact, which is important, here is my colleague Lagumdžija quoted the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, and the Constitution of BiH says that the national criterion for filling, for national representation, is proportional to the '91 census. the year, and it won't, it also says in the Constitution, won't change until it's done, it doesn't meet Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement. And what are we arguing about here? Well, this law can't be stronger than the Constitution. As far as these political reasons are concerned. I fully agree, that I would not repeat, here is my colleague, the freshest colleague, Lozančić, has made several very significant remarks and remarks, and let us clearly define what it is, brother, the total number of people in BiH, what is a BiH citizen, what is a residence, these are probably some standard forms that we are used to, and therefore respecting all these remarks, so that, if necessary, in the transitional and final provisions this law will be incorporated, of course, except in this criterion of national representation, until this Parliament declares aneks vii.. Filled. So, with these remarks, it might be good and meaningful for this law to work out and to respect, to say the following remarks to be corrected, and then I think it would be very easy to access its adoption. Thank you. 106
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29343	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, today, some who are not interested in adopting this law spoke of genocide, crime, as reasons and some many things, while on the other hand they hold the view that they are not for this law again because they do not see how much return to RS and the Federation of BiH is, or that the truth is not revealed that the return to the Federation of BiH is far less than in RS. But it's all about us now that every thing we do is politicize, so it's essential, technical or some other stuff, it doesn't matter. The census should be professional, statistical, technical and, let's call whatever we want, in a different way, a question rather than a political question. Is it a political question, and again it's not technical or statistical or any other question, that we know how many BiH residents, that we know their property records, and I don't know everything there is prescribed in the law, that I don't list or take up time, or that's politics. Can politics be something that's a factual, factual state? Someone here was saying that there might be politics based on this law and a list. So let it be done if it can be done. Is there a policy to be heard if we say there are 4 million and some citizens in BiH, that there are so many Srbin, so many Bošnjak, so many Hrvat, so many others, etc. So somebody run a policy on it and now let's say whether it should be or should be more of this or that people, or more of the others or the missing. But it's a factual fact that we can't escape from, and we don't have to run. We need to know what our condition is in our country, etc. It can also be concluded that some here are afraid that the 2011 census will be more favourable for someone, and for someone more unfavourable, in order to schedule the division of government in BiH, but it is also a practical state that must be so. It was a long time ago in '91. For years, and who felt more favourable, enjoyed the benefits of the privilege, and who was in a subordinate position, will be in a subordinate position by 2011, and will be in that position since 2011 to show the fact that it is effective, following a census to be conducted in BiH. Therefore, we from the SDS will support today this first reading of the Bill on Census, Households and Apartments in BiH, because we believe this law is necessary and because we believe that the list of tannings is impeccable, because without it there is no EU reception, or even the liberalisation of the visa regime, which sees that it is not even on the threshold, etc. If someone thinks otherwise, and does not want to correct individual members of this law in the second reading through an amendment, then I can conclude that it is entirely against the adoption of this law, therefore, and against the census and the rest, which can be concluded that there are a variety of reasons I would not be talking about right now. Thank you. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29345	Thank you. Dear Ambassador, Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29346	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before I say anything about the debate, I would like to make it clear, so on behalf of our representative HDZ 1990, that we are not only in favour of the census, we are even for the law that should regulate it. And it is high time for this law to experience a transparent procedure here in Parliament, that the public, the media, the people in this country can see political positions of parties and the relationship to this important issue. Unfortunately, we can only see two things from this debate today. First, if such an important question had no consensus now, but that would not be a problem either, but there is no way of getting to that consensus. And, not only under this law, but this country, which is my answer to Mr. Kalabić's question whether there is any BiH, there is no, this country is there and it will be there all the time. And that's a question outside the debate. It's a boat, where we're all in, he's a soak, he's a big-sucker, and I'm afraid he's running water all over the place, and we need to say it here in public, that we don't fool people and people. How are we going to compete on pre-accession funds and funds, get EU funding if we don't read the basic exact data and database? That's what I'm asking all of us. How can we talk about being all for EU membership, and this is one of the conditions and fundamental preconditions to show statistical literacy and to legitimize ourselves as a serious and responsible state in these processes. I think it should be out of the debate. If there are open questions, and there are, let's set up a mechanism for how to solve them, but this way we'll knock them down, and now wait a year or two days for them to come. I am therefore, so that as Parliament, as a House, we return this to the Commission, including ustavnopravni Law, this has elements of constitutional character, as a relevant committee, to carry out a thorough debate, to try through dialogue and arguments for these open issues and to preserve this law and provide legal conditions for the census to be implemented. Now, here's something about these open questions. So, I don't think anyone has the right to claim that there are solutions in the law that would prevent any citizen of BiH from being included in this list regardless of the globe in 200 and some countries. It's a fundamental right, it's a democratic standard, and it needs to be immediately aware that a law that does not involve it cannot pass, but we can remove it in law. We should also call for this debate, and we're arguing, so it's as if we've never said anything here. The political leaders swore when they negotiated and applied a political agreement on the implementation of the census to secure 500 million KM, and so they sent them to the world; and the refugees and those who wanted to come back to see what was going on with this issue, now nobody mentions it. And that's an illustration of where we are. That's a good illustration where we are. When it comes to budgeting, let's buy that day to get to the budget and under the condition that we'll promise those 500 million marks, but in two or three months, no one's even mentioned it. I think there should be a consensus on this in this parliament, that BiH as a state and its institutions will provide these funds and that it is not a daily promise, that it is the country's strategy. 108 The other thing is the issue of political concepts that are evident here today. This is no longer about criteria, European values, standards, this is about political concepts as well as all other issues. And today we see here two opposing dominant concepts and we see that there is no harmonisation mechanism between these concepts costing this country today and its position on the European scale and human status and non-deprivement... and a number of other things, not to count now. And unfortunately, we have to say that the international responsible representatives are already participating in that ship by sanctioning this status quo, this status quo is no longer a status quo, it's a hypertrophy without responsibility. I think it's high time they took part of their responsibility because they're receiving huge funds and money and logistics for this state. So it's the position of us as representatives and our party and I think the public should know the position of everyone. So we're for the list. Beyond any debate should be a democratic standard for people in this country, as a multiethnic country, to be clear about ethnicity, if they want to, and not for them to, if they want to, and I don't know what the problem is. If we're... troubles to deal with this issue and politicize, then I'm afraid for, not for the country, I've said it once, but fat for that ship. I mean, so that question shouldn't be too controversial in the debate. You can find a solution. Therefore, the issues of implementation, the addition of this law, the debates of serious and the application of the results of this list and what, here each party has said its position, which we in HDZ 1990 can accept is to enter into the preparation, implementation and organisation and, hopefully, one high-quality list, with the results of the census, regardless of when they are, cannot be implemented on the establishment of the authorities until constitutional changes are made. I think it's one minimum that needs to be debated, and that would eliminate any fears that someone here wants to legalize the actual state of affairs right now, or that others don't want to enter the list because they're waiting for a new situation to mutilate it. Here, that would be an honest agreement and a fair position to achieve a political consensus, that we have this law and that we can go and achieve those important goals, because the list is just an assumption that important goals matter to people and for this country come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29347	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29348	Mr. Chairman, in a dilemma whether or not to answer, I did report for similar reasons as my colleague Martin Raguž, to state the views of the Party of Democratic Progress on this issue. And, as he said, I mean, the public should know our position on this very, very important issue. 109 So the Party of Democratic Progress is for the list. We believe it is necessary, so we stand at the point of view that it is necessary within that list that people can declare themselves both national and religious, if they want to, as counterpart Martin Raguž says. Someone here said, here I'd say it again, it's our constitutional category, and now, probleming that question, we're probleming everything. We then set up all our relationships on one imaginary basis, and those who know some mathematics know what it's like, what a real axis is. Stories in this sense, behold, we would be in favour if the application of national structures in power was in '91. And otherwise we're against it, it's best to tell how much politics has gotten into this serious story. Without a census, I assure you, all relations, relations, statistics on which BiH needs to rest and economic development, tomorrow's access to European funds, which my colleague Raguž was also talking about, come from a number of residents. So all the statistics are fake, they're imaginary without it. They're based on our assumptions and wishes. It is certain that some knowledge will be painful for everyone. But we must face the truth once, break away from the past, and turn to the future. Without it, we're gonna tap in one place all the time. Therefore, I would not go further into the lab, take time for you, I believe that we are all on the verge of patience, the suggestion is that this law is adopted in the first reading, that it goes further into the procedure, and that through the amendment action it is made to be acceptable for the majority of this Parliament, taking into account the arrangements that can be included here when what will start to apply, what is what we can agree on that is not fixed and strictly defined by European standards. So, come on, let's open a story, a story that's not burdened by what's been happening to us, it's been very ugly for us. The sooner we get rid of it, the faster we will move forward both towards the EU and towards everything that citizens expect from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29349	Dear President, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29350	Thank you. Here, this is how I signed up there, so you know when it's time for us to sign up. In any case, the law cannot be adopted in the first reading, we can return this commission to consider it again, and that is the least we can do, otherwise the law will be brought down. And I would use my time to say that we were talking about the law itself and if we had talked about certain points or members of this law, I would focus on trying to explain my view of certain misunderstandings, as the appointment is called the usual place of residence, where anyone who regulates the law has the right to define a certain definition in the law itself, even though they are not in other legal projects so defined, that it would be easier to enforce that law. And it's a very common thing. As is possible for us to list our citizens outside BiH and to list them but according to EUROSTAT. They don't go into the total population, but we'll write it down and put it in order to compare ourselves with the other countries to ERUOSTAT. And we can make an internal agreement here in BiH that these people enter the total number of 110 inhabitants only for internal use, so that we can express on a percentage how many Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat there are. However, since this is not about the law, but it is about whether or not we should have a list, I ask the question of those who have reached the Constitution and who have told us here in an inspired 15-minute speech, quote certain members of the entity constitution how they can provide me with the achievement of Article 3, Article 2(3) of the Law, the right to freedom of expression. I have the right, the right to freedom of expression. I have the right to plead in this country what I am and who I am. No one can forbid it. I see in this law that the legislator has given the right to plead that, if you will, and given the right to speak to someone, if they will not. And you're suggesting that I be lifted from my right to plead and not be given the right under the Constitution. You do not allow me to exercise the right to a member of IX that officials appointed in BiH institutions, in principle, represent the composition of the people of BiH. How is it to represent, if we do not sign up in accordance with Article II, where I am given the right to express myself? Now I'm talking about law. We're not talking about any member anymore, because this is where the question of law is asked. Gentlemen, allow me to have my right under the Constitution of BiH. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29351	Since my esteemed colleague touched constitutional rights, it would be good, as MPs here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, that constitutional rights guaranteed by the BiH Constitution and entities, etc. We don't just interpret what my rights are, and others don't have any rights. We must fully observe human rights and fundamental rights in this country. Here, I've just got here in front of me the Constitution of the RS, so the Constitution. That constitution says, I quote, "Article 1. Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat, as constituent peoples, equally," I quote, "and without discrimination participate in the exercise of power in the RS". Same provision at the state level, too, in another entity. We know very well how they participate both in one entity and so on. And we see it every day what it looks like. And, so my intervention is just so much that it would be good to once realize that when someone says I have the right to do so, to realize that others have rights too. However, here all the time, it tries to impose such a policy that only I have the rights, and everyone else, who and the Constitution have guaranteed rights, have no rights, and even in this country in half of its territory, can say, officially from the Government of RS, that the name of this country is insulting, and the name of the neighbouring state of Serbia, e, does not offend it. Let's try all the rights to use them the same way and it'll be better for everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29352	Thank you. Replica, Honourable Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go. 111
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29353	Well, I'd like to say that we don't view equality as numerical equality because it defined something quite differently. So, equality is guaranteed by the Constitution, but also by the decision on the constitutionality of the people is told exactly in certain institutions as many people will, for example, be in the government, how many, I don't know, of six of those functions in the RS, as much as they belong to one, how many others, how many third, or how many people can't have more than that number, etc., etc. We're talking about that kind of equality. If we look at this side of equality, which is the case, then the census and the figures only affect the civil servants, because the issue of these relationships has been resolved at the level of the entities. Whatever the list, there will be so many Srbin, so many Bošnjak and so many Hrvat in the RS government's decision on the constitutionality of the people, as well as in the Federation. She didn't go any further than the Federation, but from the entities she didn't go to cantons and municipalities. And this is where I end up. Buddy, there's an equality if it's not numbered. I think at least that's what we agree on when it comes to this. So that would be the basic thing. Look, I'm really here when I talk about that list, I don't know what the '91 list means anymore. A year. What he means is, except for... a clerk where he's not respected now, here's where and now he's not reached, or they haven't reached the results of the '91 list. A year. And, like, now we're gonna do it if it doesn't say it like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29354	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Bajazit Jašarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29355	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am a member of the Joint Commission who delivered today's report and I was designated rapporteur, but the report was clear, so there was no special need. What I would ask is that, in accordance with Article 112, when a commission report is not accepted, and it is evident that it will not be accepted, it gives clear guidance on what the commission should do. I am convinced that you will certainly do so, but I would like to suggest that it is considered that, when it comes to this law, there may be a group, in which there will be representatives of parliamentary parties to come to this, almost what you were just talking about, under which conditions the law can be accepted. A moment ago when you spoke in this last address, you drew about a contour that might be, about which we could negotiate. When we voted in the Joint Commission on the Law: if we had adopted the principles, today the law would have failed, and then we would have a finished story. We have thus shown our commitment that we need both the law and the list, but that it is not possible to reach the law in the way it has been done so far. And the working group that made the law had to respect the fact that it was also a political issue, and no one was seriously consulted, the law was made. The Council of Ministers had to know that it was also a serious political issue and no one was seriously consulted, a formal law was passed and came to the Joint Commission. I must say, no commission has the capacity to come up with a recipe for getting out of this crisis alone. I dare say, the smallest capacity of this has this Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development. And that is why I call on you to understand this negative opinion of the Joint Commission as our appeal to be done in this law in the way that every law should be passed. Those laws that can't be brought into line before the basic principles are laid down, and they shouldn't come here. This law came, let's say, and because the deadlines stand out, but here, today may be the last day to say, if we don't sit before this second round on the Joint Commission and agree what model of the census is acceptable for this country, then this walking from this commission to the House in those two steps – it's just a waste of time. So there is a possibility that if all parliamentary parties are involved and we agree on what principles, then in that second part of the parliamentary procedure, we can make up for missed time and a missed opportunity to negotiate from this earlier period. Please make our guidelines clear. If it's just a mere return to this commission, then it's just going to be a mere vote on this committee, and next time the law won't be able to come out of this house as a passed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29356	Thank you. Next up for discussion, honourable MP Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29357	Mr. Chairman, this was for a replica, but since I used two replicas before, and there was a need, this is a way to turn it into a kind of replica, two things that have been said and that show the absurdity of our entire situation when it comes to aneks vii.. It is necessary to answer that question, but at the same time we need to give the world the answer that we are doing Aneks vii.. spent more money than the international community or then the United States spent on the head of the population for Marshall's plan. We're gonna have to tell people where our money is, and we haven't been able to finish it. We'll morati to give a fair answer. It's impossible to spend tens of billions, not to say why we failed. We're gonna have to say that. If you're going to play hide-and-seek, then 10 billion ends up on the other side, and you're going public with aneks vii.. Done, it won't pass. So that's what someone's gonna have to answer. Another thing, as absurd as it says, what if the new list, whenever it is, says that one nation is no longer 43%. I'm asking, if we're talking about the formal and written part of the list now, 43% were musliman. Is someone gonna hang on to that story and say, well, you see, it's not 43% now, but it's, I don't know, as much and what. You want someone to be a problem too? Or it takes another council to change some names so that it just shows how much a serious compromise is needed on this issue and yes, because if on these dilemmas it is... formally insisting, then you see what problems we can come into, and the essence of my replica refers to that honest discussion of a colleague, Raguž, who shared one of our fair approaches about the state – it turns out that I am against the state and he is against the state. 113 Mr. Raguž, I know that you are for BiH only when you have no choice. But in the variant when I was talking, I wasn't talking about the state in terms of attitude towards the state, but in terms of what the state is. Normally there's a state and there's going to be one. This space has never been without a state. But here, now that we're talking about what the state does, if it's enough just to have a name, I don't think it's a state, so to be honest, and you can hear it from ordinary citizens and in their jargon daily, he's at his sense of price whether there's a state or not. In that sense, I was talking about whether or not there was a country, and not in a formal sense, it's quite clear. And whoever thinks he's got such a strong state and who's been saying, here, it seems to me, and fellow Huskić, here's this rally now that he's been announced here, and here I suggest you come out on behalf of that strong and powerful state in front of those people and say that there are these countries and that the country has come powerful to solve their problems and that in this way strengthen the state, I am for it. So, I didn't speak in terms of attitude towards the state, but simply, in this sense, ordinary people need to be convinced: there are countries all kinds of, and strong, and powerful, and weak, and none, with all their characteristics, we mean something else under the state, which would look like a state, and logically, there was always and there was a state.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29358	We have a replica. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29359	So, short on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29360	Count on me not having time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29361	I know, that's why I called. So, it's not a problem Drago here, these are very serious things, it's not a problem whether you mean Bosniaks, 43% Bošnjak, less or more percent, so the problem with this population list is what we really, as responsible people, have to talk about everything. So this state is composed of two entities. What could happen after the census, after the census results. Here, let's take the RS in which, after the census, there's, like, 80% of Srbin.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29362	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29363	Well, Srbin, 80% of Srbin, we have a specific territory that makes up RS. We have 80% of Srbin, we have established power, and so we have the results of the census. What's next? That is what this is about. What can it do after that? It's a matter of self-determination and secession, etc., that's what this is about. So, it's good to get these things back on the Commission and get us these dilemmas, which are kind of 114 possible consequences about this list, and that's how we end up. So this is a very serious thing and, therefore, all aspects of this list must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29364	Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll consider that Mr. Kalabić no longer has the right to reply. You see, I just said that outside the debate whether BiH has any, for me, Mr. Kalabić, and you asked that question, it wasn't me. And it's not a question of my choice when I have no choice, it's a question of the continuity of the historical and future. Now, here I say it responsibly in front of the Bosnian and international public, just laugh. And that story of yours... that's why I reacted today because it's not your individual story, it's now a concept that develops around BiH like this, and you think people will keep quiet, at least those people who hold on to their own dignity and relationships, so we won't, at least I won't. So this country was, it will be, and no one is, and neither are those who imagined themselves capable of overcoming modern and future history, or even globally. She can only experience the transformations she has experienced through history in her inner structure and relationships and God Bog that we love her in such a way that you and I love her. Here, I can just say it. Is it fair?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29366	I'm closing the debate. I said this quickly so I could move to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Act (first reading) Please, the Council of Ministers delivered it to regular procedure 21. 8, ustavnopravni law as competent has delivered Opinion on constitutional basis and principles 14. 9, established validity as a legal basis and supported the principles of the proposed law. I'm opening a debate on this law in my first reading. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 9. 115 Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29371	I've been in touch with the last one.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29372	I'm sorry, I didn't see that. If there's no one reported, I'm closing the hearing. Point 12. Ad. 12. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH (first reading) You've reached the Conformity Report. There is no agreement in the College and in the second round when we vote the College will decide on the bill's proposal in the first reading. We have a report from the Joint Commission on the achievement of consent, that's point 14. Ad. 14. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Competition Act
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29375	You skipped... 117
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29376	Yeah, in the same one, so it was point 13. Ad. 13. Report from the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecution of BiH (first reading) Same thing, no discussion about him. The amendments are as follows: The names of those members shall be deleted in all the articles of the Amendment Act and in addition to the Competition Act from Article 1. In Article 12. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on competition after the position (3) is added to a new position which reads: ‘Article 18(9), which becomes a position (10), number 8 is replaced by 9’. And in Article 14. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Competition Act (1) is amended and reads as follows: 'Article 30 is amended and the documentation is subject to application...' As you can see, it is technical amendments. I am opening a debate on the report with the Commission's opinion. Thank you. Report on audit carried out, item 15 of the agenda: Ad. 15. Report on the financial reports carried out by BiH Radio-Television on 31 March 2016 12. 2008
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29381	Dear Chairman, let me say immediately that it is a short time for us to talk about this report of any kind about measures. Since you set it on the agenda, of course it was not possible for the Rules of Procedure to withdraw, I suggest that today we do not speed this up as we do, well, since we waited one year for my initiative and Mr Bahtić who later joined, that we take this very seriously into consideration at one of the next sessions, but not at the end when we were in the chat room, so that whoever answered for the debate, no one, finished, point, fine, gave the report, excellently, voted, it's good. So, if this isn't the case, I suggest that we don't say this today, but rather put this point on the next session when there can be no special session where I asked to discuss the economic issues and the security of the country. So if it's possible for you to accept the College to do so. Let's not go through this today and break this over our knees, and this is a subject that means life, and all other reforms will succeed if we solve this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29382	Thank you. 119 Niko's answering for a hearing anymore. I'm closing the debate. You submit your proposal in writing and Parliament will be determined on the basis of whether it will be as you have suggested. Point 18. Ad. 18. Declaration on materials referred to in points 2 and 3 below of the 13th joint session of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, held on 24 March 2016. Seven. In 2009, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on European Integration and the Proposal for Conclusions I remind you this is about materials that were discussed at the 13th joint session of both homes. The following materials are considered under points 2 and 3. '2nd. Consideration of Council of Ministers documents, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on European Integration, and this: (a) Proposal for a priority programme for harmonisation in legislative activities for the implementation of the European Partnership and the Interim Agreement, (b) A half-yearly review of the implementation of the activities of the Action Plan on Implementation of the priorities of the European Partnership with BiH documents for a period of 1. 1. 2009 - 30. Six. 2009 c) Reports on the state of implementation of the Interim Agreement and of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for period 1. 1. 2009 - 30. Six. In 2009. 3. Plan of activities to meet remaining commitments and Roadmaps for visa liberalisation for BiH citizens from the European Commission Report of 8. Six. 2009 and Annexa of the European Commission's 15th letter Seven. 2009 'years.' The Joint Commission for European Integration in Materials Under 2.b), 2.c) and 3. delivered Opinion 23. Seven. In 2009, with the proposed conclusions and recommendations you have, I don't have to read them. Also, as you know, within item 2 of the agenda set, MP Jerko Ivanković submitted a proposal for a conclusion: 'a) The Council of Ministers of BiH is tasked with drawing up an Action Plan, with the exact deadlines for ensuring the export of all products of animal origin to the EU and delivering to the Parliamentary Assembly for adoption within 30 days. b) The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with creating an Action Plan to protect domestic production incentives and deliver it to the Parliamentary Assembly for adoption within 60 days. c) It is up to the Council of Ministers of BiH to take advantage of the possibility of the CEFTA Agreement and the legislation in BiH, and by the same urgency, and no later than 30 days, to adopt safeguards for agriculture in BiH." 120 We also received the opinion of the Joint Commission on European Integration on these conclusions, and the Commission supported the proposal by Parliamentarian Jerka Ivanković and that the proposal for a conclusion instead of a word to take advantage of the possibility of the Agreement stands in line with the Agreement and behind the words, and after the same hastily delete the words and no later than 30 days, with which Mr Lijanović, who attended the Commission's session, agreed. At the Joint Meeting of both homes, it was concluded that, after the Joint Committee on European Integration has delivered its opinion on that proposal for a conclusion, both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly at separate sessions shall be declared on the materials referred to in points 2 and 3 of the agenda set out in the extension of the 13th session of both homes. So today we take these materials to the knowledge and declare ourselves about the Commission's opinion which has done it in a very correct way. I'm opening a debate. There is no debate, we are just making a statement about the Commission's proposal. Point 19. Ad. 19. A statement on MP Drago Kalabić's initiative to "the House of Representatives forms an investigative commission with the task of reviewing allegations of the distribution of CEMT permits to the Ministry of Transport and Communications of BiH"
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29391	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-16-0.u29392	At the request of the SNSD Club, we repeat the vote. Please prepare, we vote on the same other time. Now! "For" 27, "against" seven, "abstained" four, sufficient entity majority and we adopted the Report, with the Commission's opinion. Moving to point 4. The Commission’s report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on a witness protection programme. As you know, this is in the second reading and in the second round of voting. If there are two-thirds, this law has fallen. 124 Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 25, "against" 11, "abstained" two; two-thirds of the vote "against" and the law fell. We're going to... to point 5. Proposal for an amendment II. to the Constitution of BiH – Proposers: Members of the Party for BiH (first reading). We're voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Zlatko Lagumdžija. If this conclusion is adopted, there is no vote on the amendment proposal. The conclusion is: 'The College of the House of Representatives is tasked with establishing the validity of the amendment at the 64th session of the House of Representatives, 31, in collaboration with the College of the People's House and the Council of Ministers. 8. In 2005, i.e. ending the procedure for the adoption of the above-mentioned amendment, which started as early as 2005. 'years.' Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 38, there are no votes "against" and "abstained"; when the College is in charge, then it is unanimous... We move to vote on the 6th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 35, "against" one, "abstained" two, with an entity majority. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] SDS's proposal to hold a re-election. Please prepare to vote. We vote twice the same law, now! "For" 35, "against" one, "abstained" one, with a sufficient entity majority and I realize that we adopted this law in the first reading. And now we are voting on Proposal for the conclusion of MP Momčilo Novaković: 'The Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives is tasked with opening a public debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law. The public debate would take 15 days." Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! 125 "For" 12, "against" 20, "abstained" five. There is no general majority for this conclusion. We move to 7th point: Proposal for a law on the census, households and dwellings in BiH (first reading), with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development. We're voting on the opinion of the Joint Commission which is negative. In case opinion is adopted, this law falls; in case opinion is not adopted, ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
