ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u30995	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 66th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. My koleginica Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and NGOs were invited to attend the meeting. I welcome all present MPs and guests, also media representatives. According to service information, 30 MPs are present at the session. I find the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. The delays were announced by honourable MP Vinko Zorić and Sefer Halilović. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija justifies the absence. Before we move on to a debate on the agenda, as part of the previous issues, I want to introduce you to the following things. The SDP MPs' club has named Mrs Mirjana Malić as SDP's chairman. Congratulations on the election and I wish you good luck at work. On the other hand, as you can see, the Kolegijum has reached agreement on ParliamentŠefik Opinion's proposal today, and this will be the point of agenda 17, with the fact that I want to point out to you, that's what I said to the Extended College that even though this is the point of the agenda, we only got from the Ministry of Civil Affairs this report. For technical reasons, the Council of Ministers has not held a session so that we can discuss the Information Minister of Civil Affairs, if you agree, and that's how we do it. The draft law supplementing the Law on the indirect taxation system of BiH is removed from the agenda. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has proposed, as the Commission for Finance and Budget has requested an extension and approved the College until 29. 12. In 2009, with the intention of meeting the agenda point 30. The request of Parliament of Azra Hadžiahmetović for the discussion of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Prosecution Act on Emergency Procedure, 127, is also added to point 7. Under the same article of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and yesterday, our Foreign Affairs Commission 2 discussed two ratification agreements and we felt it would be good to have them on the agenda today. At the same time, unfortunately, although the House of Nations yesterday considered the three laws, which they adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives did, we did not get, despite our Urgation from the House of Nations in writing which laws were and which delegates were appointed to this commission, so we could not put it on the agenda today. I'm opening a debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u30996	The first is registered by the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u30997	Thank you. Namely my signature isn't on this new amended agenda for two reasons. One reason is that until the last minute, we waited for the House of Nations, even this morning, to receive a report on which laws should be agreed upon and to build this joint committee for reconciliation, and the second was that I did not agree that this would put the 6th and 7th points of the agenda, which is the requirement of Parliament Azra Hadžiahmetović that these laws go according to Article 127. The fact is, these laws are imposed by the High Representative's decision. The fact is that in this House we could not discuss laws that were not before if the High Representative imposed them were confirmed here in Parliament, especially if it concerns the same members. I believe that even though business is a mandatory point, because Article 127 is stated that they are not commercially met before... the conditions, which is that there is even a legal possibility that this point will come to the agenda. I therefore believe that it cannot be a part of the agenda, or at least it must be formulated differently. At the same time, although we could discuss this when we get to these points of the agenda, I would like to propose that points 4 and 5 be postponed, since we have information that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is not in BiH at the moment, and I believe that for a quality debate on this agenda point we could discuss when he is there, so that the agenda points remain, but that the debate should be postponed by 30 December if we were to create conditions for a quality debate on those points of the agenda. Here, that's two of my suggestions, and I thought I should explain why I didn't put a signature on this agenda. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u30998	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in the opening presentation of the chairman, it was said that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly at yesterday's session had adopted three, among other things, three laws that had previously adopted this House but in different texts, and that the selection of members of the House of People who will work at the Joint Commission for text harmonisation had been carried out, but our current obligation to appoint members of this committee in front of this House was not included in the agenda because there was no written document from the House of Peoples on which the laws are concerned and what people are concerned. You see, we all know that one of these laws is a law regarding visa liberalisation and we all know that this is the anti-corruption law, right, and it would be very good if BiH had that law by the end of this year. If we leave this out of the session today and we have only 30 of us to form this commission, then it's definitely clear that we can't have that law in the course of this year. That's why I'm suggesting that we don't slave to someone, I'm free to say strict formalism, this isn't a form of formalism; the form is good, but when formalism becomes a matter of content, so today we can put this as the last item of the agenda, and that the secretary makes an effort to get the names of these laws and the names of the people they've chosen here today, so that at the end of the afternoon we can name these people in the afternoon. I don't think there's any problem with these being agenda points and this is really a formalism that we shouldn't be subject to, if we want to have these laws by the end of this year. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u30999	The Honorable First Vice-President, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31000	Mr. Džaferović, it's not a replica. Of course, I'm thinking the same thing. So, absolutely the same I think, but the facts are the following, I don't know if your club president passed it on to you. We even assigned people to the Expansive College yesterday, so absolutely understanding the urgency of things, this message should go to the House of Peoples; therefore, is there anyone alive here who has a connection with the House of Peoples, to hear, to assume that they absolutely know the same thing as we do. So, I support this proposal of yours, but the truth works, so yesterday the Expansive College has already proposed people to comply with the text for two laws, for the third we didn't simply know what we were following. We followed a session of what's going on up there so we could do it on an extended college. The sitting was not completed until 3:00 p.m. when we had an extended college and until then what was done at the House of Peoples we followed, but the least we should have done were to say, people, we'll deliver some paper to you during the day, etc. So, I support this, but I want to say in public, so it's to be expected from the House of Peoples who are equally responsible for our obligations that he has some kind of initiative, the truth does nothing else. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31001	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31002	Dear colleague Belkiću, Deputy Chairman, this is not a replica. So, we agree that the two of us, there's no problem at all, I'm just calling, here's the public heard, heard anyone who's got anything to hear, right, but let's do this part of the job, put it on as a agenda, and let the secretary take care of it, or here's any of us can leave, I'll go to the House of Peoples and ask them to get that paper, just to finish our part of the job. After all, there's no one who needs an agent to do this, we have a secretary here at home who knows how to do it and how to do it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31003	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31004	I thank you, Chairman. As regards these two laws, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, so what we have proposed to consider under the urgent procedure should be compared to the decision of the High Representative and this proposal, these two laws to be considered by an urgent procedure, we have absolutely respected the procedure under the Rules of Procedure and these two laws are proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. So when the High Representative's decision and this intervention are compared, they are not identical. Therefore, these laws we have proposed have been proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31005	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31006	Thank you, Chairman. I'm going to ask one quick question first, because it's about my discussion of agenda points. In this regard, points 4 and 5 are: 'Confirming the Council of Ministers' Decision of 5 Ministers on the replacement of Human Rights Ministers and Refugees at the Council of Ministers' and 'Information of the Council of Ministers on the reasons for the delay in ratification'. Did the College receive a memo or a request from the chairman of the Council of Ministers not to consider these two points of the agenda today? So my question is: Did you get this request from the promoter, or this decision, or whoever made this decision, not to discuss it today? I asked the question because my discussion is about the question. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. Chairman, I referred to your discussion ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31009	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31010	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, about these proposals, if we translate into our language a moment ago, is it not possible to find anyone in the House of Peoples to finish what we needed this morning? It seems to me that Mr. Tihić is the chairman of the House of Peoples, and I don't suppose this visa thing is going well for him, if I understand things correctly. I don't think I see any reason, but I agree with one part about this story of form and formalism, but at the same time, let's talk about everyone's responsibility if we're already in this story. I think there was room for the people's home yesterday and doing their part of the job this morning. I don't think there's any reason not to. As far as these proposals of the Party for BiH Club are concerned, we have already expressed our position, and here, especially in light of these new circumstances, I think it was the chairman-in-Office who explained 6 why this should not be found. I think this relationship between Parliament in calling on foreigners is not good, especially that it has nothing to do with the liberalisation of the visa regime, with the European pathway, I think this is an entirely destructive activity and a destructive message from Parliament that the work that domestic people and domestic institutions can do is persistent in calling on foreigners. If it can be added, since this morning the roads are very uncleaned, if they have any travel service to deliver to us with this, because these looks like they're not doing it well and some of them have extra resources to deliver it to us if we're going to change what's not right with us. Perhaps we could insert some MPs into this parliament to change the blood count and also get the results of some who wish for such measures. Basically, we're against this and...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31011	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31012	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31013	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31014	Yes, yes, yes, well, probably if we were to propose in this House now... what is the difference between judges and MPs. Both of these are two pillars of government, why are we so chorus to give one pillar to strangers, and that another which is equally important for the functioning of the state, probably no vote here would be for us to get European MPs to replace us a little bit. This isn't working with us. Here's one maybe, how many, one 12 MPs would allow a different blood count here and
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31015	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31016	And we'd probably have a story like that. But before that, I'd like this travel service if what with ours wasn't going to solve this for us. We haven't been able to clear this couple of miles of highways this morning, so it'd be our turn to get out of there.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31017	Replica, Honorary Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31018	Of course, here I am starting with my esteemed colleague, Šefik Džaferović, and I ask him that what he, as Parliament's chairman, would never allow him to ask me and the Kolegijum to do so. So we showed good will on several occasions, breaking the Rules of Procedure here knowingly, putting between sessions and agendas of a convention, etc., etc. We waited until yesterday for the House of Peoples and 7 we were informed that two laws were in question for reconciliation. They appointed their deputies to receive information afterwards that they were actually three laws. We asked people to give us any written information about these deliveries and you asked us to put what we heard in the halls on the agenda without any information from the People's House. Well, it's too much here for this parliament to ask, and if it's from you. On the other hand, when I say Mrs. Honorable MP Hadžiahmetović asked me if we got anything from the chairman. We didn't get anything from the chairman. I have referred to Article 68(2) that in the absence of the motionor from the House, the House may decide to lead the debate without the presence of the motionor. It's my opinion, and that's what I was going to suggest here, although I could suggest it, when we opened the agenda point to get to the bottom of it. I felt that we should not complicate the session, every question, that we would immediately agree on the agenda to do important questions today, the important question is the budget, that it would be good for the proposing to be present and to clarify if something was not clear about his decision. That's my opinion. It wasn't my goal to complicate it. It was to make things clear to the end. And that's a proposal I can even give up on if you agree to give up. I thought it was your goal to get enough information from the promoter and to explain your decision. I thought it was a common goal. At the same time, only two members can add a member of Parliament, Mr Kadrić, which is a member of the 19th and of the 2nd and of your proposals and of the High Representative in article 19 you add a 19th, so you are changing it, touching that member and in Article 2 of the entry into force you are directly changing the member who has been imposed by the High Representative. This means a concrete touch on the members imposed by the High Representative, and this assembly has not confirmed. Legally and legally, you can't put it on the agenda that way, and that's my opinion. Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31019	I agree with Mr Kalabić that it is snow and that today we should not create some kind of atmosphere, but people in some way don't care what kind of expression they use when they express some disagreement with someone's attitudes, someone's initiatives, etc. So, what Mr. Špirić would say, Mr. Kalabić, you're going to Dubalj... So, you said our initiative was destructive, so our initiative to propose amendments and supplement two laws in order to ensure the extension of the term of office of judges and prosecutors in the Department of Organized Crime. We think it's not destructive, it's just one activity that provides some kind of capacity, so let me also say the competences of two important institutions in BiH. Here, that was all the motive of our initiative, absolutely not questioning anything else, nor implying anything else. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31020	Thank you. Dear Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31021	Dear Chairman Živković, you yourself said that you know, that you heard, that the laws were passed in a different text of the House of Peoples, that people appointed commissions, said you yourself knew that. I'm just saying, come on, guys, I'm gonna go over there and say give that paper more to finish. What's the problem? What's the problem? I really don't see what the problem is, unless the problem is because I got up and I suggest it. I'm afraid that's not the problem again. If that's not a problem, then let's get this job done. We win, now seriously, so we get the laws by the New Year's Eve. We finally get that anti-corruption bill by New Year's Eve. It's the 30th session, we'll have harmonised texts of the law, two commissions will agree, and that's it. If this isn't the case, 30. We'll just form this commission, and then we'll have this law in January, and then we'll say that it's responsible for relations with this visa-free regime. It's just, nothing more. What's that, what's the problem? I really can't see.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31022	First Vice-President, honourable Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31023	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, so we must finally get out of this house, a permanent replacement of thesis. This home is the only place in this country that's responsible for everything, so, but we're not, we're not in charge of any other home or of many others who make decisions both when and when they don't have to. So, Chairman, this is what I want and does for colleges, both in the narrow composition and in the expanded composition. So we don't have to search the halls for information whether the House of Nations met at all, what he decided, how he decided and whether something should be done by the House of Nations or not. The people's home has an obligation and, distinguished counterpart, Džaferović, do not just say that the House of Peoples is completely whatever the citizens of this country will get the liberalisation of the visa regime. We scheduled an extraordinary session seven or eight days ago to respect the demands of a significant population of citizens in this country. But that didn't mean anything to our colleagues in the House of Peoples, they only discussed it yesterday. And now we're the ones responsible because they only debated yesterday. We're responsible because they didn't have time to inform the other home yesterday that they did what they did. I don't want to guess, here I don't know which three laws were passed in a different text. So I don't know. I really don't know. One of those I heard, the one you mentioned, but I'm not sure if that's it. So there's a clear correspondence between these homes, it needs to be timely. Yesterday we asked from another home, an equal home, to deliver us to the meeting of our home information, because we heard from the halls that they had adopted something different. But it's interesting that they didn't. And now until the very session of the House, the 9th president is for the sake of correctness, for your information, so we did everything we could, but the second home didn't inform us. Are we going to get into some kind of a joke, name a commission that maybe we shouldn't, not name maybe someone we should? I mean, we have to take care of that, too. So this home is certainly not going to contribute to any delay, but we need to make our addresses clear. So we can't take responsibility for the impunity of the House of Peoples. That's what I'm saying. The people's home was supposed to, I agree, deliver the notice yesterday, not deliver, which, I don't know. If there's a business possibility, I'm not sure there is, here's that after the debate on the agenda if any notice arrives during the session, I'm here to do it, because we've done everything we can to do it, so. But based on what we're going to do, I'm asking, here's what I don't know by heart, so let's take care of both our dignity and the dignity of this house, we'll do anything but commit others to doing their part of the job.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31024	Thank you. Replica, the honourable MP, Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31025	The Republic, the chairman, therefore, is true that the High Representative intervened on Article 19. Law on the Prosecutor's Office and Article 24. The Law on the Court and we did not interfere in these matters when it came to amendments to Articles 19 and 24 but we added new members to both the Prosecution Act and the Court Act. So, we've done business, we've fulfilled all our options, and there really shouldn't be anything controversial about it. And when it comes to these strangers...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31026	What about the member for entry into force?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31027	And when it comes to this, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31028	By law, are they the same members?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31029	I'm saying, I'm talking about this article in 19th and 24th.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31030	What about this other member? 10
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31031	These are the essential members of which the High....
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31032	So it's not a matter of substance, the question is, did you refer to a member to whom the member also referred to the High Representative? That's the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31033	The main question is 19th and 24th, these are the essential issues in this law. And when it comes to these strangers, we should once here open a debate about who all the foreigners in this country are. Is he a stranger when Boris Tadić comes to Banja Luka and gives instructions on how Milorad Dodik will behave. So, who are all the foreigners in this country, we need to open the debate once.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31034	Okay, but that's not the agenda point right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31035	Here we are talking about foreigners, said Drago Kalabić about foreigners in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31036	We'll open a discussion about that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31037	Who's all the stranger and who's not?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31038	Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31039	Where he finds Tadić in the whole story now, but well, he swallowed it, so I know Mr. Kadrić is saying that for reasons he's not president, so for these reasons he's telling it, but well, he has the right to want and can get it, he can easily fulfill that desire himself, I know that he has the mechanisms to get to it. It has nothing to do with the president of a neighbouring sovereign state that has more and that come here to Sarajevo, both of which are both both and third, as far as we're concerned here and the stories about foreigners in one important segment of this society like the judiciary, when I just said it was a destruction, I'll explain it by the fact that I of the High Representative can understand. Back in 500 years, someone's been coming and doing something and going. He's doing what he's told by other people out of this country and he's acting like one. And that's not controversial. But here, we stay here, and I think that this morning we may have tried to put more effort into taking things than to strengthen even more what the High Representative is doing that will one day leave, I guess at least agree that we should leave because I don't want to comment on his moves, and I don't like them, but I don't think this Parliament has the right to destruction but 11 that it's always bound to try to do things the way it is best for this country. I think, Mr. Džaferović, you know, you're not a man of Mr. Tihić's trust and you won't be given that paper. Maybe if Kadrić Remzija had gone to him, he'd have given it up in the hallway, if you wanted to communicate like that. I don't think it's okay. It's not okay. You know how these documents are delivered. If the communication between the chairman of the House of People and his party broke down, they have the services of Parliament that can do it, end it, as it is for everyone else. Don't introduce it to us from the village: she heard, she said. It's too much for this parliament, you know: she said it was something like that. I don't think it's okay. It's not a question of our good will, but in this way, I find it unacceptable. I think we are introducing, but it is still a matter of preserving the cheeks of this House. And when it comes to what the vice-president just mentioned at the last special session, we have a situation today that we have neither the chairman of the Council of Ministers nor the minister nor the disabled. And what was being prepared last time should be solved today, there are no actors of that story. It's just the rest of us who were neither guilty nor indebted to it. I think it's totally fine with this chairman's position, that it's not right. I think all three actors should be there, and the chairman, both the minister and the gentlemen of the association to help us, now that they help us figure out what was going on with us, why it was late. I think it should be fair to invite people since they have information...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31040	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31041	And it's quite logical that the chairman's suggestion is that without any actor, the story that it's mature to delay,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31042	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31043	Except for the one we need.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31044	Dear Ambassador Savo Erić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31045	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, like this, I'm thinking right now, and I admire it for as long as this introduction is going to take place, and always, when we have some important things to discuss, then we're so masters to put in some side things, and then we extend it to one two and a half hours of debate, we get tired, we get off the subject so we just run away from the agenda, and we're even bigger masters before every session to change. I really ask you in the future when you determine the agenda to determine it properly, that the agenda you agree on at the College is respected and that you give yourself the right not to bother us with some 12 divorce stories. If we get involved in this story, then we'll come up with a position to discuss why BiH didn't go to the World Cup, so let's switch coaches there and all that, means it's probably going to that point. And what's most important to us, we should have asked ourselves, we have today's budget debate and the most important thing about how we're going to survive next year, so I'd be begging you to really stop these introductions, the debates, get back to the agenda and start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31046	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31047	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, my replica refers to the esteemed colleague Kalabić. Namely, the usual and business communication between the two homes does not go to the party line, therefore you should not expect Mr Tihić as the chairman of the House of Peoples as the Club of Representatives of the SDA to deliver any paper or any information. Of course, if there is a good will in the College of this House, it can be ensured that this paper comes into this house and eventually put that item on the agenda. Therefore, there is no need to mention any correspondence to the party line in this home, neither between these two homes, and, if you will, this is one of my modest contributions to this barren debate that we MPs have when determining the agenda of each session. So I'm asking you to take things a little bit more seriously and start setting up the agenda and... realising the agenda points, because we have very important points today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31048	Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31049	Thank you, Chairman. You can consider this intervention a discussion, because I signed up, but the replicas have taken priority, so let me rephrase it one way and through the discussion. First, the chairman, my question earlier did you get from the chairman of the Council of Ministers a request that these two points 4 and 5 be removed from the agenda I believed more really when you reported that the chairman had withdrawn his decision. But here's obviously not. I don't think there's any reason to delay this debate, because I fully agree with you that this Parliament should not discuss anything unless the motion is present, but 99% of the debate in this House was without a proposal. 13 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Can I go on? So, 99% of the debate was without a proposal. Secondly, if we are talking about the formulation of these points 4 and 5, I will only remind you, and here I will also refer to the discussion, i.e. the replica of counterpart Kalabić when he says it is logical or that it would be logical that the chairman is present here today, given his proposals. It would be quite logical that the chairman of the Council of Ministers was here when they were disabled. The chairman of the Council of Ministers did not show up in this House Hall and did not show up for a few days here. I will also remind you, therefore, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers has announced on... the points proposed and the need to discuss the Council of Ministers' information on the reasons for the delay, as formulated. It wasn't just a request from a disabled person to ratify the Convention. Why do we not speak openly: to pass a law on persons with disabilities, to set up a fund for funding, to pass a family law at the state level, to pass a law at the level of the state on pension-inhabited insurance, etc. Here's a team more and the need to really discuss in general one thing that is technical, and it's turned into a political issue. And I really appreciate that this story should be finished today, that is, that the Council of Ministers, if possible today, and we will probably not finish that story, observes the provisions of the Constitution and submits a report on the work of the Council of Ministers here which will serve as the basis for discussing possible reasons for delays, such as this item of the agenda, or on any problems that arise in communication between institutions. You see, I have no intention of addressing anyone's guilt. We may have gone the wrong way to find the culprit in something. I generally think there's a problem in communication between institutions that aren't institutionalized. I equally appreciate that there are problems in implementation and perhaps even overcome provisions of competent laws that regulate this area and I think this parliament should discuss it. We have been initiators of the amendments to the law before, and we have supported the change of competent laws that regulate this area, but I will remind you that in this paragraph there was not enough hearing to change those provisions and make this procedure more effective throughout the process. Let me just remind you,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31051	It's a debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31052	The debate on the agenda, exactly on the agenda, the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31053	Please! 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31054	And here I am. But let me remind you, in 2009, we ratified an agreement signed by a respected colleague, Zlatko Lagumdžija in 2002. It's a deal with China, so we haven't had a billion and some Kinez showing up here. So let's talk about the fundamental problems that led to this, which was the problem, which this parliament was involved in, I fully agree with counterpart Kalabić, who was dragged into this parliament, although he does not bear the burden of guilt. Thank you. Here's to the conclusion, there's no reason to take it off.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31055	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31056	Thank you. I'll replicate it in some way, Mr. President, you and your colleague Kalabić. First of course, I'm going to be a colleague of Kalabić. He's, I know, two replicas, so I've been waiting for you. He said three conditions should be fulfilled: here to be Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister and Persons with Disabilities. Here comes the minister, the disabled is gone, probably won't be. I expect the chairman to come. And otherwise, if we'd waited until now for the chairman's boredom, I think we'd have held one three, possibly four sessions. So we've worked so far without the chairman. I don't see any reason why they'd be making a precedent right now. And as for the proposed agenda and your discussion, Mr. Chairman, I think we should act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not discuss the content of the proposed laws. So, anything suggested in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I think we have an obligation to put it on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31057	Replica, import president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31058	Thank you. We're also talking about the essence of it. So, I believe that it is not foreseen in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that we will violate or create a problem with the Rules of Procedure but with the right in this country that we are changing members which this Parliamentary Assembly has not confirmed, and the High Representative has been imposed by a decision. I warn this Parliament and those who say that we talk here for nothing - I don't think they understand the essence of my presentation. I have very seriously, very seriously warned this Parliament, please, Mr. Džaferović, sit in your seat. If you found some papers in the halls, tell everyone we're hearing and we know these two 15 homes work that way. I would like to warn Parliament that in the way these two points of the agenda have been proposed, then we will violate the Rules of Procedure and come to a great deal of trouble from and law in this country and the Constitution, but also from the High Representative, if by chance these laws pass, that it puts them out of force. And that's why my point is serious. On the other hand, business conditions did not come into play, although it was our great intention to get the papers from the people's home to put it on the agenda because we can't put something without material on the agenda. Business opportunities were gone. I can't think of dragging anyone in this country to do their job, even the House of Peoples to deliver what they were arguing about yesterday. It is a matter between the two parliaments and if it is necessary to open that agenda, we will open that agenda. And third of all, I'm here for everyone involved in Sections 4 and 5 to come here for a session and open, without politics we're discussing this issue. If someone doesn't want to discuss it that way, that's all they have to say. I have expressed my desire to discuss it openly. Thank you. Dear Ambassador, Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31059	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, so when it comes directly to this point 5, it is only now that you see the background for why there were even protests. I will not blame anyone for what they were or who they were, but it was evident that it was not the main objective of the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. After ratification in this House and our best will and everything we've done, it turns out that we've been obstructing until they come out, like we've driven them out. We did not drive them away. They made an invasion of Parliament here. They blocked Parliament, so they threatened to take us hostage, and because of that threat, I went to talk to them because I knew they wouldn't take me, they have no reason. Everyone used to take me hostage somewhere but I got rid of myself in a magical way. So now she's right, Professor Hadžiahmetović, and she said the essence of what it is. I knew that too. It wasn't a ratification of this convention. It was the creation of a unique organization, so this, well, there's a series of things there. So the other side of it was completely different. And that we are today discussing who has made all these appointments, without real and other data, illusory. The other thing about these papers is that you all keep talking about in the halls. Now that I'm leaving Parliament in one two hours, I'm going to collect all kinds of papers from everyone, and then I'm going to run as a part of the agenda somewhere for about two hours, and we're going to have a lot of fun today, instead of discussing the key things that are in the interest of this country. Are we going to adopt the budget by the end of this year? Do we have time? Is there anything we can say about him today, no matter what the procedure is? And so a series of things. Next, on these suggestions, I agree. Of course, they've come into the process before knowing this decision of the High Representative what he's going to do. But those two are in college, too. The High Representative did what he suggested, it seems to me, the Council of Ministers, so confirmed the decision, these 16 other proposals are quite different, required to remain foreign and in the Crimes Department. So, quite different two things. Now to discuss the High Representative what he did, in what way he suggested, now this new entirely different text spreads the whole story. I think we're gonna get involved, and we're not gonna do anything. Let's do it, people, what Mr. Erić just said and what we keep saying here. Are we going to adopt the budget and survive next year, what's going to happen to us? Are we going back to temporary funding, so wait for what happens next year? Do we have a right to stall that? Let's do what's on the agenda, which is normal and what we can reach a consensus on and what we can discuss. I'm telling you, I'm going to collect 10 papers in the halls now, so I'm going to say this is the decision of this, this is the decision of that, so let's put it in. Every time we have a problem with the subsequent inclusion or disagreement of one of the members of the College who did not sign, of course for certain reasons, because this is a candidate and what are we to discuss today?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31060	Time! Thank you. The right to replicate the Rules of Procedure has a honourable MP, Remzija Kadrić. Dear MP Šefik Džaferović has the right to discuss, two replicas have been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31061	So let me just say it one more time. These two laws we have proposed are proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the decision of the High Representative and these members and the entry into force, so everything is proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the decision of the High Representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31062	Thank you. Discussion, honourable MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31063	Mr. Chairman, I've been thinking all along about how to react to your performance to me when I got back here in the O.R. and I decided not to say anything, except ask you to look at the stenogram and see again what you said and ask you never to do it again, when it comes to me. And that's where I'm going to put the dot. Secondly, I am informing the House that I was in the House of Peoples and I entered the session of the House of Peoples College and I was informed by all members of the College and the secretaries that a memo on what laws were adopted yesterday in different texts and which people were appointed to their commission and that it is located in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Office. That's it, thank you. This morning. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31064	Thank you. We move on, if there's no further discussion, to a statement on the agenda. Mr. Genjac, you often report at the end. Is there a need? Let us vote on it. We put my proposal to vote so that the agenda points 6 and 7 are removed from the agenda because no business conditions have been met, in my opinion. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" nine votes, "against" 17, "abstained" three. I find the proposal hasn't been adopted and the agenda points remain. I would now put this proposal to a vote, so that we would not put to the vote when the agenda points come to the debate, and as regards points 4 and 5, we should postpone their consideration until the chairman who made the decision is there. And that's my suggestion now. We can vote on that now if you agree or we vote when those agenda points open, but I think because of the efficiency of the session we better vote on it now. So my proposal is not to discuss these points of the agenda, that they be the points of the agenda of our next session, when the chairman of the Council of Ministers is present. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 11 votes, "against" 14, "abstained" four, there is no general majority. I agree that today we will discuss these points of the agenda. And I have just received a obavještenje from the 39th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and, given that I have not read what this is about, I am giving a break of 10 minutes in which I am asking the presidents of the clubs to call on the extended college and to consider this item of the agenda how we are going to put on the agenda, because it is necessary to appoint MPs to the joint commission. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats. In the meantime, we held an extended college and, as you can see, in the new draft agenda, the Extended College decided to place the agendas of 22, 23 and 24, which concern the alignment of text with the House of Peoples and the appointment of three members in the Joint Commission. I would like to inform you that we received this memo at 10.45 p.m. and that only the will of the Extended College to get us to do all the laws concerning visa liberalisation by the New Year's Eve has exceeded what is the obligation of this Parliament to do according to its 18 Rules of Procedure. In any case, we also decided not to vote here in Parliament on taking down these agenda points, so I can realize that they are currently on the agenda. And, since we voted on all the amendments to the agenda, allow me to read the amended and updated agenda of the 66th session of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31069	I thank you, Chairman. I asked a simple question at the 59th session, and it said: 'What are the reasons other than national that public television with much more attention was accompanied by the champion of Germany's Wolfsburg than the champion of BiH Zrinski from Mostar?' So I got one dozen answers. I have nothing to say but it's pure demagogy. The answers must be as clear and precise as the question. They can answer that there are no other reasons than national ones, and they don't need to convince me that they're not national. I know they are. I asked if there were any more and what other reasons were other than national. Then they tell me about Olić, Klasnić, this—what I mean, I don't care. I don't care who's playing in the German league. I was just asking why the champion of Germany was more followed than the champion, then now he finally turned on and Federal TV says they wouldn't interfere in BHTV's business, they wouldn't be competing with them, etc. I mean, really, on these four pages, so much demagogy I've never seen in my life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31070	Thank you. 21 Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31071	I thank you, Mr. President. At the 63rd session of this House, I asked the Council of Ministers: 'What is and at what stage are the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly related to the engagement of 400m KM funds to implement the 2009 return programme? - 2014. A year?' And, questions related to the Return Strategy, I have received a response from the Ministry of Finance to this first question. And I can tell you that I'm not being maligned, satisfied, partially satisfied with the answer, only in the part where the activities that the Ministry of Finance has taken to realize this conclusion are listed. And since the conclusion and the question were not only about the Ministry of Finance but about the obligation of the Council of Ministers to implement the conclusions of the BiH Parliament, in the end, on the question it was asked 4. 11th to the conclusions adopted exactly a year ago, I received the answer that project documentation should be provided in English for the realisation of these funds and their engagement, which is, of course, the beginning of the story at all. We should have known that a year ago, not now, and what procedure it was for those funds to be employed. There is no answer to the question 'to what extent is this real and when will it be feasible, which is the key question and what is the people and the public, this country, all those who want to return interested?'so that I will renew my question and seek the position of the Council of Ministers on projections when they think and how much resources, if I cannot engage 400 million, must realise this conclusion in a way that ensures the relevant means of ensuring that the return process in these years that are defined is realised. The answer also lists all international institutions and agencies contacted by the Ministry of Finance and that part of the response is really accurate. It is spoken and we need to know clearly why the European Investment Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank, do not approve and are not interested in this type of support. That needs someone fat to explain here. And why only this reduced international financial infrastructure is mentioned as possible for the engagement of those funds. I think that here we should all be responsible together for what our conclusion is, where we have committed ourselves to working on providing significant funds for return issues, that it's been a year, that we don't have a relevant answer as to why it wasn't done and we don't have any responsibility why that conclusion isn't realized. So I'm going to renew the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31072	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31073	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 22 Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, the international community, NGOs, representatives of information funds, I asked a parliamentary question at a recent 15th session in 2007, and I got it a few days ago, and it doesn't make any sense anymore, but at least it makes sense to say that we care at least when we get it. Because if I had kept my mouth shut, then that practice would probably continue if the parliamentary question had to be answered for two to three years. This is completely inconclusive. This information is no longer valid to me, and so I ask the question... to answer me, "Why is this information, or the answer to my parliamentary question, supposed to be over two and a half years in the response procedure?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31074	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Željko Kuzmanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31075	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, asked my question at the 62nd session of the House of Representatives, which reads 'is there within the Agency for the Investigation and Protection of Units that oversees possible abuses in the use of the Internet and whether actions are taken against persons who commit such abuses?', I received a reply from the Council of Ministers, who replied that the BiH Criminal Law on which the jurisdiction of the BiH Court of Justice is based did not provide for crimes related to the Internet or what is referred to in the modern termology in the broader sense of the Higte Crime or those cyber crime. Of course, in that sense, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection has not established an organisational part. I am pleased with the answer, however, with the up-to-date response... I must remind my fellow MPs that even amongst us there are colleagues who abuse the Internet daily, publishing unauthorized recordings of individual MPs, which are later transmitted to the daily media. Of course, joking aside, it is high time to install this provision into Criminal Law and I hope that in further harmonisation of the judiciary with European law and this provision will be included in the Criminal Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31076	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31077	I thank you, Chairman. From BHRT Director General Mehmed Agović, I received an answer to my question: "Why is BHTV not covered in many areas, especially in the local community Janja?" I got one satisfying answer. I'm just reminding TV once again that 23 honors this deadline, that it's said that the assembly equipment will, i.e. They admit that Janja is not covered by this TV, and there is an interest in the returnees, there are over 10,000 returnees who want to watch BHTV. And in this answer he says that the installation of assembly equipment is being carried out and its release into operation will be completed by the end of December of this year. So I remind him again that this deadline is being respected and that people in the Janja Local Community as well as in many other areas of BiH are watching BHTV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31078	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31079	Thank you very much. Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have a need to comment on the two answers I have received. First, 30. 9. I asked the question: "What regulations in BiH is the regulated section of funding and control of the financing of religious communities?" The answer I received from the Council of Ministers in the first place says that the issue of financing and controlling the financing of religious communities is not explicitly regulated at all, except for the part relating to the funds used by religious communities from that reserve. Clearly, this answer has little to do with the actual state of affairs. It is clear that the religious communities in BiH are a state state and that their funding is beyond any supervision of the institutions of the system and even beyond the supervision of the believers themselves. There is no control over even spending on the funds that religious communities receive from the budget. It is logical that religion and religious communities be separated from the state but there is no logic that the financing of religious communities is out of the law, as is the case in BiH. The second question I received was to regulate public collection of assistance to BiH citizens or families for the treatment of social and housing care and others. From the Ministry of Civil Affairs, I received an answer in which it was only correctly correctly found that this was a complex issue and that from controversial cases it had grown into a mass phenomenon. Of course, there are no problematic human actions to collect assistance that are transparent and orderly. The problem is the mass collection of aids that are completely out of the law and which are deceived by citizens, and the role of those who collect funds is witnessed by frauds who make real business out of collecting aid. Unfortunately, the state also does not have effective mechanisms to combat fraud and fraud that, in the role of humanitarians and people in need of help, rob citizens and violate public order and peace. My point was, by asking this question, to point to this problem that has grown into a new model of crime. Thank you very much. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31080	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jerko Ivanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31081	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, my question was in the context of an opinion on the Amendment of the Law on Expenses. As the Council of Ministers falsely informs us of very important laws, here is the answer to this question and this opinion can be seen. So the opinion on the amendments to this law states: ‘It should be borne in mind that the proposed amendment to the Act, which plans to introduce an additional specific excise duty of 50 KM per thousand cigarettes, i.e. 1 KM per pack of 20 pieces, with an unchanged exchange of excise duty rate of 42% and a 17% VAT resulting in a retail price for the cheapest pack of cigarettes of at least 3.5 KM’. This means that if the brand increased excise duties, the cheapest cigarette would be 3.5 KM, and for cigarettes from so-called. The most popular price groups 4.5 KM, which I am even three times the current retail prices for these same cigarettes in Montenegro and Serbia, and significantly more than in Croatia. And on this basis, I ask the question in which I say, 'On the basis of which calculations have you come up with data that in the event of the adoption of this Bill on Excise Taxation in BiH, the cheapest cigarettes in BiH will cost 3.5 KM, and what is more than in the Republic of Croatia? Please submit an open calculation with all items from the Republic of Croatia and BiH for the same cigarettes in order to support the above in the opinion. And I get the answer: "According to our records, the lowest registered price of cigarettes for one pack after the application of the tax code in BiH is 1.20." So when they give us opinions on the law, they give us 3.5 km information, and when they check it out, it's really 1.20. That also means if we increased by 1 KM excise duty, that cigarette box would be a maximum of 2.5 KM. And we, based on such opinions here, make very valid decisions and are responsible for the conduct of a tax policy that is one of the most important in the country. And the following data says: "The official data on the calculation of the cheapest cigarettes in the Republic of Croatia are not known to us, and no statement in this respect is possible." So they tell us that they do not know the calculations in the Republic of Croatia, and in this opinion they tell us that this is more important than in Croatia. I agree that tax policy is very important to look at regionally; if we look at it in such a way as we got in this opinion and the answer to the question, that we don't know, then obviously it's all about how we run it, actually how we're going to run it when we get such answers from the Council of Ministers, so I'm going to ask another question that these two just explain why they're falsely informing us, and then we're logically making the wrong decisions based on false data. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31082	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31083	Thank you, Chairman. Let me first thank you in my comment for the Prompt Response to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. The reason first of all lies in the fact that this is a repeated question. I'll remind you, the question was raised more than two years ago. The response found by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council more than two years ago has traveled more than two years to Parliament. For that reason, I asked last time that when I repeated the question of sending the answer to DHL, here to thank you, it's not DHL, but of 12. 11th letter of the Parliamentary Assembly of the High Court Prosecutor's Council responds 18. 11, it is already 23 in Parliament. 11. So this is a positive example, we usually complain about how they travel answers a little longer, and here's a good example. Namely, I am not dissatisfied with the answer, but there is a need to draw your attention to a part of the answer to the question: ‘How many appointed judges with a mandate have completed the age prescribed for compulsory retirement and what reasons have the High Court and Prosecutorial Council conducted to define the appointment, or the term of office of judges, and why does the age rule not apply for the termination of the term of office? I got an answer that the age for compulsory retirement for judges and prosecutors was 70 years of age. However, in accordance with Article 33. The laws of judges and prosecutors may be appointed as additional judges until the age of 72. And here, in this most recent response to the Council's record, it states that there are currently six judges who have completed 70 years of age and who are named as additional judges in accordance with Article 33. I just wanted to draw attention to this as an argument for the points to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31084	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac. _________(?) Wrong. Wrong. Dear Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović, please. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31086	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I have no comment on the answer, but I would have one proposal for this item on the agenda: under b) I would suggest that, given that we have lost quite a lot of time, we simply do as at one of the previous sessions, gather all the questions and send them into the procedure and I don't think they'll lose anything on efficiency, and we'll get time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31087	Thank you. After the end of this floor a) we will put your proposal to a vote. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31088	I thank you, Chairman. I, before commenting, want to comment on this proposal and I think it is totally unacceptable because many MPs are really detailedly preparing to ask parliamentary questions, and we have here replicas and discussions of the dead an hour that we lose and then the key things, the ones that we have got to ask the question, we have no opportunity to do so and to present it to the public. That is why I would not support such a way of working and skipping this item of the agenda and the possibilities as an MP to ask a question. What I would like to comment on... in response to my question with the 61st session is on the delivery of information by the Council of Ministers on the readiness of BiH institutions to make commitments regarding the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and... when it will be delivered in the parliamentary procedure, given that both homes have adopted a conclusion on the need to deliver such a document. I really thank the Council of Ministers for the exhaustive response I've received. And I appreciate that the moves made by the Council of Ministers and the Directorate for European Integration are very high-quality and I expect that the Council of Ministers, which ordered the European Integration Directorate to provide information on the progress made on European integration from 2005 to 2009, will be respected when we, as MPs, will receive one full information. What I would like to comment on about Parliament is that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Commission and BiH should have been defined through the formation of certain bodies that are listed here. Among other things, what concerns the Parliamentary Assembly is the establishment of a parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee. As an MP, I have no information, and I do not think that there is any activity in this matter, and I am initiating this at this time means to the College and the institutions in charge to initiate the procedure for the establishment of the parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee which is ours and the obligation to do so. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31089	Thank you. The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31090	Thank you. I am asking, "What will the BiH Foreign Ministry do specifically to sign a bilateral dual citizenship agreement with Australia as soon as possible?" Got an answer from the Australian government, not from our ministry. I knew that answer because I was there with our delegation and raised that question, which in response and said, and I am not interested in this answer, and I am interested in the answer that I will redefine: 'What will the Foreign Ministry do specifically to ensure that our citizens remain in Bosnian Herzegovina but also Australian citizenship?' Obviously, in response, there is an opportunity to do so, but apparently there is no willingness or will in the Foreign Ministry to do so. I'm interested in the way they think to provide it. Thank you. No more reported, we move under b) this item of the agenda of 'New Parliament Issues', and I put... under b) that means we put to the vote of the honourable MP Mehmed Suljkanović: not to go to this kind of question, but to deliver the questions in writing. Please prepare to vote. So we're voting on whether we're going to postpone this item of the agenda and deliver it in writing or, please, listen, we've already discussed it. We'll do it again, 30, no, no, we'll do it again. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 19 votes, "against" 11, "abstained" two, insufficient entity majority. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 19 votes, "against" 12, "abstained" one vote, not enough 'against' votes. I find that this item of the agenda has been postponed in a way that issues can be submitted in writing. And we're going to point 3. 28 Ad. 3. Proposal for a Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2010, Proposer: BiH Presidency, Law No 01, 02-02-4-110/09, of 24. 11. 2009 (first reading) The Bureau submitted a proposal for a Budget Law to 24. 11. Constitutional Commission Opinion on constitutional basis delivered 7. 12. The Financial and Budget Committee delivered its opinion on the principles 10. 12. and proposes two conclusions: '1.It is the Commission for Finance and Budget of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury that, in co-operation with the resolution ministries in the amendment phase, a proposal for a Law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations 2010 with an income structure that would be within the framework set by the Fiscal Council of BiH and the structure of expenditure in which they would be respected within the limits of the options of the BiH Presidency's proposal. 2. The Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH is tasked with carrying out further consultations with the Central Bank of BiH, with the aim of considering the possibility of providing a larger amount of funds in the figure of income from the Central Bank of BiH necessary to cover the expenditure of BiH institutions in 2010. year.' We have very optimistic conclusions, but the finance minister is currently at the signing of a convention or contract and has asked to address this budget. However, this does not mean that we cannot continue, when the minister arrives he will have the opportunity to address Parliament. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31092	Thank you. I welcome all colleagues and colleagues, guests, representatives of the Council of Ministers. You have received an opinion, so the Commission has mostly adopted the draft law on the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2010, with two conclusions. One conclusion: The Commission, together with the Ministry of Finance, establishes a structure with institutions within the borders set by the Fiscal Council. The second is: To be in charge of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury to carry out further consultations with the Central Bank, with the aim of considering the possibility of securing a larger amount of funds in the Income item from the Central Bank's profits. I will say in a few minutes, so we have received from the BiH Presidency a proposal for a Bill on Budget, which referred to the parliamentary procedure of the Bill on Budget of 1,052,534,000. Compared to the Council of Ministers, the Bureau increased the budget by 24.5 29 million from the Single Account of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, both for refugees and displaced persons. The fiscal council has therefore brought a framework for income from the Single Account to be 40 million, and now they're smaller by 25. Po, in my opinion, this budget as every year shows that we have a budget reduction going at the expense of the state, stronger entities, and a weak state. And that's not good. Also, according to unofficial information, it is likely that Minister Vrankić, in the Fiscal Council of State Minister Vrankić, is too loud, so he is too loud. The biggest cuts are where there are the highest number of employees: the Ministry of Defence 8% (30,154,000), SIPA 8%, Management 3%. Some have been increased by internal redistribution: the Ministry of Human Rights, the Election Commission because it is an election year, MIP. I have to point out here because of the recession, the savings, that compared to 2009 the fees employed by state institutions are almost 40 million, for 39,297,000, means 22%, which is very positive in this recession. The service of external debt, you saw that this year the circus is about 42,333,000,... transferred funds from 2008 to 2009 in this next year are 120 million, meaning the transfer of the rest of the neutral assets according to the adopted report on the execution of the Budget 40 million. The cost-saving transfer under the IMF agreement with the stand-by arrangement is 40 million, the central bank's surplus funds paid 120 instead of 100, so 20 and 20 more were saved, so 120 million which is quite good. And I would no longer, we have a phase two, and I call on all MPs to adopt in our first reading, meaning the Commission's proposal, and in the second phase, we try to fix some things with amendment action and that this grant and this item for refugees and displaced persons is not touched at all. Because there's a return strategy where it takes about 200 million a year for refugees and displaced persons. I think this is good, and I think we have a relatively high chance of adopting this budget at the next session, the 30th, and that would be a major shift. So I call on you today to adopt in our first reading and adopt this budget by the New Year's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31093	Thank you. Discussion, honourable Ambassador Rifat Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31094	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, appreciating time and estimating that this is about the draft law on the 2010 Budget of BiH institutions in the first reading, however, I feel the need to look briefly at three things in this proposal that I am asking for the answer and the opinion of the promoters and, of course, a correction for the second reading. First, at this time when the economic crisis and recession are freely said to be galloping, in BiH, I expected at least in the proper scope of the anti-crisis budget. Instead of the anti-crisis budget, we got this budget, which would say the situation is at least normal in BiH. Gentlemen, if we think the situation in BiH is normal, then we are in great error, I don't know how much of who is in contact with those who are still in this country dealing with production, but it is quite certain that in 2010, we are expected to have an escalation of the crisis and to continue firing workers, despite some other optimistic forecasts that unfortunately do not have a sustainable argument. Instead of the anti-crisis budget, we have before us a Bill on Budget 30 for 2010 where almost all expenditure in this budget is on the rise as if we were running honey and milk. The port also plans travel expenses for 2 million, PTT costs for 1.5 million KM, transport and fuel services expenditures are on the rise of as much as 6 million KM, etc. I think we send a bad message to workers in production, pensioners, social categories and others who are directly affected by the economic crisis and recession. In this budget we didn't plan and at least so it turns out that we weren't planning to feel that blow which is not, I'd say, correctly or morally. My second question concerns the category so-called. Transferred dedicated or non-intentional surpluses and assets from previous years. During the adoption of the budget for 2009, we had these transferred dedicated revenues from 2007 and 2008 at 102 million KM. Of course, I was not able to see from the material at that time what purpose these revenues were allocated for. In this budget for 2010 in the balance sheet of income by sources and purposes we have the item Transferd surplus funds from 2008 and 2009 amounting to 121 million KM. I'd like an explanation of what this is about and I'm guessing this is the kind of case the law provides for budget rebalancing, not extra income or extra income transfer, etc. In this way, obviously we lie to ourselves and steal ourselves; I understand that in this way we provide a security reserve for the financing of institutions, but maybe that reserve is more necessary elsewhere. The third thing I have to mention is that, year after year, we're doing gymnastics with returnees and means of return, and that's what confuses both our MPs and our returnees. When the budget is adopted, we all have our mouths full of return and returners, and then in the budget we end up planning funds for these purposes far below and finally we don't spend them. So, in the end, my key remark concerns the principle that this 2010 budget must necessarily have the character of an anti-crisis budget where BiH institutions must feel the contribution to combating and combating the consequences of the economic crisis and recession in BiH. This proposal for a Budget Law cannot be said and I find such a global definition unacceptable at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31095	Thank you. Since the minister has arrived, I would ask you to let Minister Vrankić speak a few words about this budget. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31096	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, my apologies for the little delay. We just signed in the second hall of the EBRD Agreement for the Mahovljanic Loop and held talks on the Deposit Insurance Agency. I can see that there's this law here today, so here's my 31 application that we're taking it up today to achieve these preconditions for a new arrangement that we want to make. In front of you is the draft Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2010, adopted by the BiH Presidency. Since this is about first reading, I would like to introduce you to the constitutional and legal basis, as well as to the objectives and priorities of the draft Budget Law. I do not think that the constitutional basis should be particularly highlighted to you: Article 3(4), Article 8. The Constitution. The initial basis for the creation of the 'Proposal of the Law on the Budget of the Institutions' is the provisions of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, the basis of the content of the document of the Framework Budget of the Institutions for Development 2010 to 2012, the austerity measures adopted by the BiH Institutions at the Council of Ministers, the operational instructions for the preparation of the budget for the preparation of the 2010 budget, which the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury sent to all BiH institutions, the proposals for the approval of expenditures to the BiH institutions from the 2010 budget and the amendments to the draft budget of the Council of Ministers by the BiH Presidency. Legislative procedures: The law on the financing of BiH institutions defines the procedure for the adoption of the budget of the institutions, and that the Ministry of Finance delivers to the Council of Ministers draft budgets to the BiH institutions by 1 October, and that the Council of Ministers then submits the draft draft draft draft to the Bureau by 15 October, and the Bureau delivers the adopted draft budget to the Parliamentary Assembly on 1 November and the Parliamentary Assembly, as you know, is whether, by the end of this month. Goals... Proposal for a 2010 Budget Law... on the following priorities: building state functions related to meeting the conditions for the European Partnership, the adjustment of the programme and activities of the Ministry of Defence and other resolution ministries involved in implementing BiH's accession to the Partnership for Peace and Accession of NATO. The fact that adequate filling has not been carried out in the institutions established and no employment appropriations have been granted in the 2009 Budget, and this proposal provides for the completion of one-third of the missing jobs for 2010. Under 4. Ensuring part of the funds for last year's investment of budgetary users. 5. Ensuring funds for new budget users. Six. To give priorities to the programme of return of displaced and evicted persons. Although the official draftr of the BiH Presidency budget, allow me, when I came here, to say a few words about the basic characteristics of this budget, because I have opened the debate on the very elements of this budget. The total framework Budget institutions and service of external debt is 1,390,389,000 marks and is smaller by 26.274,000 or 2% compared to 2009. It consists of the budget of institutions, what we are interested in most, is 1,052,034,000 marks and is higher by 17,176,000 or 2% compared to 2009 and the service of external debt of 341,655,000 and is lower by 42,333,000 or 11% compared to 2009. So, within the framework of income, income and funding of BiH institutions, the structure refers to 713,500,000 of indirect taxes, representing a decline of 15,5 million or 2% compared to 2009; 160,273,000 of non-taxable revenues representing a fall of 38,792,000 or 19% compared to 2009 due to the reduction of the Central Bank's share of 40 million marks or 32 40% based on their analysis that they provided; 500 000 marks of current aid; 121 million marks of assets transferred from the 2008 and 2009 surplus; 17 million marks of receipts from a succession; 261 000 of receipts of sales, the most sales of old vehicles and other small equipment and inventory, and 40 million marks of credit funds, in line with the 103th session of the Council of Ministers, held on 5 November 2009. The total expenditure of institutions and service of external debt for 2010 is 1,390,389,000 and compared to the 2009 budget are lower by 2% or 26.274,000 marks. Payments and fees are a total of less than 2009 for 48,101,000 marks or 7%. And the change from the adopted 2009 budget was influenced by the following circumstances: the reduction of the base for wages compared to 2009 and the reduction of the warm meal and regression. A downsizing by the defence ministry due to the planned redundancies of soldiers and an increase in the consequences of the fact that this proposal envisions the completion of one-third of missing jobs in 2010. If we compare total material costs, the 2010 proposal raises 21% compared to 2009 or 41,394,000 marks. If we compare the total current grants financed by the 2010 Budget Law, they are approximately the same level compared to 2009, there is only an increase of 160 thousand marks. If we compare the total capital expenditure financed by the 2010 Budget Law, there is an increase of 31% compared to 2009, an increase of 14.5 million marks. Finally, to say that there were a total of 243 million marks of requests from budget users where we could not agree, or where we did not find an argument to build into this budget from the legal basis, and one part of the missing funds in the total gauge as much as the document of the Framework Budget has allowed us. Here would be the basic characteristics, we're standing here with staff for all the additional information or arguments that are necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31097	Thank you. We have a report of a replica, honourable MP, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31098	Mr. Chairman, therefore, I have no more buttons here than replicas and applications for discussion. If there was another third button, I'd probably push it. So it's not a replica, I have nothing to replicate the minister. But... I wanted to ask the minister to tell us here a few more data concerning the total inflow of funds at the expense of the indirect tax administration, so the funds on the accounts from which we and the financing of budget users in the course of this year are: how much smaller is it compared to last year, e.g. when income from indirect taxes is at stake, the consequence of what it is, how much was it affected by... the customs duties that we excluded, is that how much reduction in VAT taxes, how much total economic activity and what kind of minister projections are when these revenues are for next year? Does its projections, i.e. the evaluations, say whether we will be able to finance the overall budgetary framework in both the state and entities and in 33 cantons and municipalities, so all that is financed, in the next year, in this way as set up by this budget framework? I think that part of the presentation, a general part of the presentation, is missing from this introductory presentation submitted by the minister and I would ask that before we open the debate we get the information, he certainly has, the minister certainly has this information about this part, and only then is this debate discussed by the minister when it comes to the full budget, their income and expenditure. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31099	Thank you. Is there a need for the minister to answer this question? Okay. Do any of the MPs need to ask any questions before the debate is opened to simplify this debate, and the minister responded immediately at the beginning? If there's anyone, please ask. ... Please, Minister, just a little bit, maybe there's someone else who should ask a question, so you two can answer it together, and then we can open up a debate about what the MPs wanted to ask you. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić had a question. Please just briefly, as soon as possible, and then you'll have a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31100	Thank you. My discussion has just been focused on only one area here and one item in this budget, and it concerns long-term transfers of items and increased items. Here, in this year 28 million marks are provided for the rental of premises, since 19 in 2008, 27, now 28 million, we have also reached the conclusion as the House to do the plan and programme as the Council of Ministers wants to solve it. In this document I do not see in capital expenditure, only two items have to be allocated to purchase funds in the DKP network, Zagreb, Belgrade, and accommodation and equipment of the headquarters of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of some funds. In this sense, in this opening statement, I am generally asking the Minister for information: How does the Council of Ministers approach this problem?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31101	Thank you. No more reports. The Honorable Minister will try to answer these questions before we begin the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31102	Here, thank you very much for these questions. 34 I think that the questions are a setup and we could approach another approach when it comes to this budget, but then it's a document of the Framework Budget in which this is all elaborated and decadent, so here I appreciated that this is not necessary, given that we have a 12% drop in income in the Directorate for indirect taxation compared to the plan, and this is adequately reflected for two reasons. One of the great reasons is the decline in customs revenue compared to the previous year, what the people would say about double, but I have to say that it's one fact that has to be respected, that one part of it is planned, so it's not something that happened by accident, we know because of the Agreement that this drop in income was expected. However, due to the decline in total other activities, we know that, let's say, whether imports and exports were halved, or 20%, by 25%, on average, decreased, due to this crisis of reduced overall activity in the economy, and that therefore we have an explanation of why this decline in income occurred at the Directorate for indirect taxation. As for us in 2009, 2010, we went with a 5% growth projection compared to this year as we did that there will be a projection by the end of the year, meaning in some consolidation, and this is based on the fact that in the document we went with a 3.5% GDP drop in 2009, and that for 2010, we planned a growth of 0.5%, here symbolically, but that we will stop it and, if so, it will be really good. What's also important to emphasize in all of this, we're witnessing, I think you had a document signed with the International Monetary Fund. In fact, we have estimated that given the events that are happening in the environment and these trends that we have felt it is necessary to call, as people say, to help the IMF to try to stop these negative trends. And simply, what is most important in all of this is not, what is mentioned on a daily basis, income, or credit, or a short-term loan better or more correctly spoken by the IMF than more so that we recognize the policies that we have to implement in the country in order to keep the fact that the country is in a macroeconomic stable framework and that it could go, sail, which would be said by a safe route. And the agreement itself with the International Monetary Fund is a clear message to all international factors that the country is on the right track when it comes to economics and in that sense that we can do further arrangements and one of these is now signed with the EBRD, ten minutes ago. One of these is an agreement with the World Bank 185m euros for the DPL project and all other facts that are happening. We planned the deficit 4.5% this year, so we're covering that deficit, and I think... this year we kept it at 5.1%. I don't think it's much of a deficit, but given the circumstances, given the possibility of our economy, we believe that we have kept it in real terms, that we have sources of funding for it and that we can cover it and in that... we have to stay there and keep it. As far as this one question is concerned, if at first I understood the esteemed representative Dolić was asking about the transferred funds, then I can say that this 121 million, the fact is repeating to us already here from year to year and I think that's a good question and that we need to explain it well. So because of several factors, one of the factors is planning, one of the factors is consumption obstruction, one of the factors is consumption inability, one of the factors is institution failure, there can be a lot of things. I'd say it all has a little bit of its element, its part in it. And since we're not doing rebalancing, the only thing that's left is normal for us to transfer those revenues next year, and for that amount we're reducing participation from the Single Account so that our participation from the Single Account, I don't know, from 14.8% to 35 now to 12%. It's good that what we haven't spent has not been ruined, but we're still using it for the next period, but it's not a good fact that we're getting less participation from the Single Account every year, and we've already come this year, and I think it's the last year, that this transmission is going to be symbolic. We transferred only 41 million marks from 2008, that 40 million marks were saved by this savings agreement when we signed a stand-by arrangement and that 20 million marks were saved by another activity in the Ministry where we basically made instructions for all budget users to additionally save and what we thought were spending priorities and this resulted in a 20 million-mark savings. And last year, the Central Bank of BiH paid 120 million instead of 100, and that when we add it up, it's 121 million. And now that we see the next activity and dynamics of budget realisation, it's quite certain that this year we're going to bring it in, what we'd say, to a positive zero, and we're not going to have a transfer of funds in 2011, but then it's going to have one, if I can say so, problem for entities because it's going to have to increase drastic participation, so from 12% probably to 14% or 15% from the Single Account. And then it's going to directly endanger the entity's budgets and then we're going to have a problem in a consolidated balance sheet that we're going to be working with entities and here's the way I think... that I explained... which way it's going. And when it comes to what Mr. Nanić asked, the rents: we predicted and 10 million marks are in the capital building reserves. So, 10 million marks are foreseen, I know they're not enough funds, but I think, and I personally think last year, when the budget was adopted, I was saying that we have to make a strategy for replacing the rent for the annuity, instead of paying the rent, we need the actual... annuity. And, in that sense, I think there is one change in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget that together with these funds we try to do it in the next period, and joint services have made one proposal, one vision of what all of this should do. And I have to say, when I saw how much space it took, I got a little blurry, it revolved on tens of thousands, it seemed to me 70,000 square meters of space, the budget users showed the request, but in any case it deserves a special approach and a modality and a way to solve it in the next period, and I think we're going to go out with one such proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31103	Thank you, Minister. We're going to a discussion. Dear Vinko Zorić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31104	Well, this is called a replica because I have no other way to answer it. If I had a few tiles, I would certainly have raised someone else, but here I was encouraged by the debate of the distinguished minister about 28 million marks, and otherwise here I suggest that he or the chairman of the Council of Ministers come out for at least the last three adoptions of the budget. What about the conclusions? I think there were at least seven or eight of them, and I remember my colleague, Nanić, very well when he suggested this conclusion. And I don't think we've done anything about it in the last two years. But 28 million marks, if we were to pay credit rates, I think we could get a lot of space for that money, and here's a minister by the end of the amendment phase and the Council of Ministers would consider that one possibility. We 36 have to take one step in a year. Is the Council of Ministers going to be in debt somewhere so that instead of these 28 million rents, they can be credit rates, but at least we're paying for our space and we'll have our own space. So we're in commercial debt somewhere, and we're finally starting to solve that space, and not only that if it could be said in the second reading, and what the fate of all the other conclusions is. Here, we won't go far back when we adopt the last two budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31105	Thank you. We're going to a discussion. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31106	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers and others. I only wanted to make known the views of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats who were related to this commission phase, so the 2010 Budget Law proposal for institutions. As you know, we voted against the principle, but at the same time we supported these two conclusions. We believe that given the overall situation, therefore in the SNSD, we believe it was necessary to respect the budgetary framework proposed by the Council of Ministers, which does not mean that we could not meet the requirements of the BiH presidency in terms of certain corrections. Therefore, the dramatic situation caused by the reduction of income in the Single Account of the Direct Taxation Authority warns us that the Budget of the BiH institutions, since it is not yet developmental or social, would have to be more objective and appropriate time in the coming year. We also believe that the income side of consciousness is necessary to the level proposed, so it is 1,028.534,000 KM and that the income of 24.500.00 KM should be transferred so... to the income side of the entity's budget, as well as to the possible difficult social situation, even with so little resources, we will not be able to control it in the following year. We also think that we should have a lot of understanding when it comes to funding, i.e. programmes for refugees and displaced persons. It would be logical in the whole situation, regardless of the proposal which was made by the Council of Ministers not to make it more significant, that the funds do not deviate more significantly from the revenue, from the funding plan for this year. But I want to point out in a certain sense that the SNSD's views, we think that these funds, unfortunately, are mostly inadequately used. We will require that these investments be seriously reviewed in the previous years and that a complete review be made of the impact of the spending of these funds. The least of these funds are the ones most affected. An insufficient share of the funds is also 35 million, but there is a need for serious consumption. The impression is that often labour performers and different ways of bargaining raises doubt in a certain sense. This way of spending budgets in BiH is inappropriate in any segment, especially in those mentioned. 37 We think there are more ways to bring this budget down to 1,028,534,000 KM. One way is to cut funds. Of course, that's what we'll say when it's an amendment phase, but let me just make some of the points. One way is therefore to reduce capital investment funds. Another of the ways, as the respected minister said previous colleagues, which refers to years of huge expenditure in the segment of the lease of space. I think that the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers can come up with a constructive proposal that we at least improve this year, let's say, one-third of the projected funds are as part of an emergency or credit line in that sense, and two-thirds of the lease, because we can't suddenly solve it if we go in that sense. We would like to send a clear message to the public and to the citizens of BiH that this budget will be adopted on 30 December. Today, the National Assembly of RS will probably also adopt the budget of the RS entity. We hope that in time, first of all, the Federation will send a clear message to our partners, first of all, that we are determined to respect the stand-by arrangement and that we will be in a position for the second tranche to withdraw in time, so that the budgets will not be in a dramaticly difficult situation. In that sense, I think we all have a responsibility together. The SNSD will come out with proposals in the amendment phase. We want to act constructively in this sense and we want to send a clear message that here for the first time in this term of office we could adopt this budget before New Year's Eve, which is how the law in a certain sense guides and obliges us, but there are a number of issues that we are currently not agreeing on, and I think it is possible to do. And, also, one way is a linear way of reducing this spending party in all items to an amount of 24,500,000 KM in order for this return item to be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31107	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Prodanović. The next is the second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31108	I, in some ways, apologize to the members of the Finance and Budget Committee for interrupting a series of reports. So I'm going to say something else because Mr. Bahtić is already part of the principle, part of our positions, when it comes to the principles of this budget. But first of all, I want to point out that it is very important that we have a real minister, when it comes to important documents. At least I benefited very much from Mr. Vrankić's presence, because he has, in addition to this explanation that we have, however, given some information and, as far as I'm concerned, removed some of the questions that I had. So we're talking about the principles of this budget. For the Party for BiH MPs' club, we have a practical reserve that two principles are not fully met, the principles on which budgets should rest. So, the principle of providing minimum resources to achieve 38 functions or some priorities if we have established them. That's what the minister was talking about, priorities and goals. And the second principle, we also think it's not fully met, so the maximum uncertainty of income, so a possible estimate of income. When it comes to this first principle of providing these minimum resources for functions, we are primarily referring to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, something has already been said. We also think of the Ministry of Defence and think of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, especially on condition that foreign judges and prosecutors do not remain in full capacity in the Department of Organized Crime, for a simple reason because their presence was supported by funds from the international community, so the replacement should be financed from the budget, of course, if that happens. When it comes to the maximum possible uncertainty of income, we have a reserve in some way and in this conclusion 2. The Finance and Budget Commission, where further consultations with the Central Bank are said to be required to consider the possibility of providing larger funds. So the Central Bank Act clearly states that the principle is 60:40%. In favour of the budget is 60%, 40% is the capital of the Central Bank. The estimate is that the bank's profits will be around 90 million. I even think that even these 60 aren't certain, that it's going to be 55 more than 60. So you can't go into realization, at least I think so, this conclusion because... simply, we have one automation. We would simply have to change the Central Bank Act, but then we would really come into one danger if we were to start jeopardizing the position and function of the Central Bank. So these are the reasons that we in these two principles have in some way a reserve and we will try, of course, as everyone else in this second phase of the amendment to some things correct. And in the end, Mr. Minister, I think we should start an initiative to make that fund, that is, timing reporting. We have the deadlines of June of the current year for the previous year, and you are already starting to make the first projections, etc. That would be surprising for you, if you hadn't launched the initiative, at least to shorten by March of the month or April that you had to. Well, I understand, but you see the situation we're in. You understand that better than I do. And finally about these push buttons, excess and missing buttons, reporting etc., I think it's up to the Rules of Procedure to decide whether it's a replica, is it, because slowly it's starting to go into some kind of not-not-to-say abuse, but incorrection.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31109	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31110	Mr. President, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, colleagues and colleagues, at the beginning of my speech on this budget for the following year, I would like first to say a few findings, which is, here is also a commendation from the Council of Ministers, i.e. the RES, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury for meeting its commitments under the Fiscal 39 Council talks, as well as the resolution minister with the IMF representatives, and that we have achieved those savings at the level of the BiH institutions' budget in this current year, thereby contributing to the continued talks with the IMF on the Stendaj-Stendbaj-aranžman and, I hope, its successful realization. On the other hand, I have to say some of my dissatisfactions, which is the fact that just now the minister said that participation is being calculated by BiH institutions from the Single Account every year is becoming less and less. So, the trend is to reduce participation in the financing of BiH institutions, from about 14%-15% to 12%. And another finding, and that's my concern about the huge drop in income on the Single Account, which is disproportionately large compared to... I believe that there is also a realistic assessment of the decline in overall activity and therefore the basis for the collection of these revenues. According to the BiH Framework Budget document, one table shows income from indirect taxes, and we see that VAT revenues fall 6.2%, while the minister said earlier. This should be concerned because there has been no legal change, so the rate changes or some goods are excluded from this tax system. On the other hand, a high drop in customs revenue should also be noticed. And I think that such a high drop in customs revenue is not just the result, which is already said, which is that some goods are freed from customs, according to our assumed obligations, etc. I think the question should be whether there may have been some relaxation or easing of people who are working to collect these revenues. It is again known that the term of office of director of the Directorate for indirect taxation has expired in this year, however, it must also not be a reason for any reduction in the responsibilities of all employees in terms of doing their jobs, so as to result and possibly resulting in a reduction in income. So I think we should work on it if the projections are that there was a decrease in total income of some 3.5% and that the reduction of these revenues is somewhere close to 10%. The height of this budget, I'll say, may be real, and perhaps small. Our minister's relationship to this amount was said through the fact that he did not agree at a meeting of the Fiscal Council where the amount of funds would be set for the financing of BiH institutions was determined. However, we are also obliged to accept what the Fiscal Council brings in accordance with these legal powers, as a framework within which we must all move. If we look at and accept that this budget is one of the most important instruments for making policies for each government and realising strategic objectives, then we know that the importance of this document is extremely important and important and in times of recession I think it has been taken into account when making our budget proposals for next year, perhaps even in some things and too much. Here's why I'm saying this. If we have achieved savings of 40 million marks and more in this year, the question is whether we can implement everything in the next year within this budget. First of all, I think of here and here said some extra costs, which are estimated to be 40 million marks, so it is predicted that no primary funding is provided, but we will provide financing for these projects and these costs by borrowing. So my question will be addressed to the minister to answer: How certain is it and have we already agreed and provided these sources and what will be the conditions? 40 Likewise, on the cost side, it is not our responsibility under the BiH Constitution to talk about the overall fiscal framework and the spending of public funds throughout BiH. However, it is also well known that I should mention here that certain budgets of some authorities, above all here I think of the Federation of BiH entity, and then some cantons, particularly, in a very difficult situation, are in very large deficits. I'm not convinced, I'm not sure those deficits can be easily solved. The budget deficit of the Federation of BiH budget is very high and I don't know if that's 10-20 or how many percentages but the very high budget deficits of some cantons are measured in dozens of percentages of these amounts and the real question is whether these institutions will ensure stable business and liquidity in the coming year. However, of course, those who wish to oppose this one have the right to say that this is not our jurisdiction. I agree, but it is also closely linked to the stability of financing this budget for BiH institutions for next year. Of course it is necessary (all of us are talking about it, the minister spoke about it earlier) and these deficits in real terms, and I expect that all those in charge of achieving these objectives will take care of it. Public spending is high, however, an even bigger problem is the structure of public consumption. It is known that the structure of public consumption is very unfavourable and that a large percentage is going to current public consumption and very little is going to capital securitisation or investment or some economic support, which would then return in the next period. And I'm going to say just a few more words about the Bureau's intervention in the phasing out budget framework of the Fiscal Council and the Council of Ministers. I believe that the BiH presidency has seen the problem well, and that is not enough funds to return. However, I am also sure that this increase proposed by 24.5 million marks for the return item is not enough to make something more significant in the next financial year. And I think that you should re-engage that this return strategy which has not unfortunately passed and adopted to do either that same or the revised strategy and that it should be adopted to be the basis for a real initiation, I would say, more serious dealing with the problem of return, although so far what has been done should not be underestimated, but that is not enough. And of course, within that strategy, it has already been said and... very inaccurately because it is an assessment that it is necessary to ensure I don't know 400 million marks, 500 million marks, some say that it is a small one, that it too should be doubled, but however much more than this amount is foreseen by this increased presidency amount, which is scheduled for the return in the coming year. So this question needs to be resolved in this way, not just to increase it by a few dozen million marks, because I'm afraid it won't be the effect we all expect. I think the situation is that and the resolution minister can also inform us about the mood of potential donors or creditors to secure these funds in the coming year and in the coming years, and it was envisaged that the implementation of these funds from this strategy should take place over the next few years, perhaps four to five years. Here's to the end, I'll say, I think those most important principles are respected. Some questions that are not fully answered, I expect, at this stage, to be answered by the conclusion of the amendment phase and that we can support this budget in its principles, and we will also fix the details of this next phase with amendments. 41 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31111	I thank the esteemed representative Jukić. Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31112	Dear Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed guests, I will try to be brief in this story and I will try really not to get too much into the details, but some things seem to me that we need to clarify in the beginning. In fact, I'm going to start with a proposal for the conclusion of our commission that's pretty vague and confusing. As I understand this conclusion, number one, this commission proposes that it be entrusted to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury together with all other ministries in the amendment phase to come to a new budget solution, with a new expenditure structure, which should in some way satisfy the presidency's demands. Does this mean that they will also discuss those items on which MPs will not have amendments? I figured it would. Does that mean that we're going to come up with some new budget that we don't have in front of us today, at least when it comes to cost structure. And if that means it, then I'm afraid that we're MPs in that sense in a different position than usual, here's to call it, because we're discussing now this budget that may not be in its expenditure structure as it is going to be. That is why I have a reserve on this conclusion and I believe that the Finance and Budget Commission should have completed this job without our conclusion in, of course, coordination or in communication with the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury. That is why I will not support this Commission's first conclusion because I think it is a big question whether it is possible to conduct a debate in this way, here is a business debate on the budget. When it comes to the revenue side of this budget, so I'll just say, I'll just pay attention to this item, these IMF funds of about 40 million marks -- as the minister explained so nicely, I had the impression that this arrangement with the IMF was actually donations. It looked so nice as the minister said, and not that these are the funds that we receive under very unfavourable conditions with interest levels that are equal to commercial interest without grace periods, etc. So, of course, we can call this whatever we want and that's not covering the deficits, and that's not like that, and that's not so, the fact is that without these 40 million and those in hundreds of millions going towards entities, we can't realize the structure of expenditure. Whatever we call it, that's it. So if it wasn't for that, we'd have a smaller budget. We're not going to say that we would have a budget deficit, we'd have a smaller budget, and we couldn't cover the costs. And that should be called a real name. No, this budget depends, so when I say the budget, I mean all consolidated budgets, and this one, too, depends on the arrangement with the IMF, that is, on the balance sheet. And that's how it is. 42 What else is the problem here? Look, we've now got this budget that's above the budget set out on the Fiscal Council. You remember when we talked about the Fiscal Council Act, so, among other things, we could say the key and the basic task of the Fiscal Council is this. It means we don't have this problem in this debate right now. And be careful, our commission then suggests that we, without the one who cooked our oatmeal, cool the oatmeal. So, without the Presidency that cooked this mess for us, now we, our Finance Commission and the budget with the Ministry of Finance and the vault, should solve this issue. If this conclusion is accepted, then it does not make any sense without the Presidency or without the presence of an authorised Bureau negotiator when it comes to that expenditure structure. There's a few serious questions being asked here. Here, I'll set up a few. First of all, what about the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption? Namely, it is about the Agency which will be or most likely is the newly established Agency. As far as I can tell, this law was passed in the House of Peoples, and for that agency, I couldn't find that the funds had been provided. Are we going to be saving as if it were the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, meaning that instead of cutting wages, it decides not to form this agency to confiscate illegally acquired assets and thus help the vast peoples of the masses. I only hope that we will not help people in this way and that, if anything, we will show through this budget the good will to engage in the fight against corruption, of course, fully aware that we are now being followed by the formation of this agency, etc. But, as it stands, it will not function in 2010. There are still a few vague questions. First of all, whether the funds for the BiH Prosecutor's Office are enough after the High Representative's decision, since it means that instead of foreign prosecutors, we will have domestic prosecutors next year. We know when we discussed this issue, when the laws were on the agenda that one of the conditions that was being imposed is that we must take over and finance, so first we must institutionally strengthen this, means personal strengthening, then, of course, take over and finance these institutions so that we do not get into trouble so simply by this decision we get institutions that are unable to respond to their tasks. I'm not sure that we've been forecasting this budget from those 10% salary growth, there's 10% for wages and fees, we've predicted enough funds or we've even predicted funds for these purposes. The next is that we are also not one of the key conditions, or even agreements, at the level of the parliamentary majority envisioned funds for the 2011 census. Namely, I did not find any funding provided for the preparation of the list in the statistical agency. Does this mean that we gave up the job, that is, did those who put it as a condition for us to get closer to the EU give up and say that we don't need it anymore, so we didn't plan it in the budget? And finally, here we have reached one conclusion by discussing my initiative, and related to helping or resolving the issues of workers fired from work in the period of '91-'95. years in Croatia. We have reached a conclusion here and we have commissioned the Council of Ministers to provide in the budget for this year the resources to assist in the conduct of judicial disputes before the authorities in Croatia so that until the possibility of providing for themselves, meaning or having free legal assistance, etc., and in conditions where both the American and Spanish foundations have given up to assist these processes, we allow our people to exercise their rights. We reached that conclusion here, and that conclusion went towards the Council of Ministers, and I did not find here at the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, 43 nor in the current grants, and we are not in the programmes of any special purpose that the funds for these purposes are foreseen. All these remarks that are concrete I will, of course, in the amendment phase through the amendments, mean to invest, but I repeat, the question remains, in particular, what about this Anti-Corruption Agency and what about the funds for the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31113	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. The next is distinguished representative Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31114	I'm glad this budget came in December, here in mid-December in debate, and I'm sorry it didn't happen in October, so let's say, in November so we have time for the amendment phase. That's one question, and the other question is, are we ready to bring the budget to 31, like all other European countries? 12, and last year, I remind you, in April, i.e. This year in April, we promised to bring the budget in time and save one 200 million marks in time for the budget, i.e. If we had brought the last budget in December of last year, then surely we wouldn't need these 40 million that Mr. Novaković was talking about. What is evident is that we have reduced this budget, and I must remind you when we were bringing this budget that the consumer basket was about 450 marks. At the time, we had fewer salaries, so some average in Bosnia was around 450,00. Now some consumer basket means according to the latest studies 1.500,00 – 1.600,00 marks, it's three times bigger, so these salaries should be three times higher, and they're not. The budget should be most likely by inflation and by the surplus that was promised and the programmes that were given in the election campaigns, so it should really be, let's say, there's about 3 million. So that's some ratio of 3 billion, I'm sorry, that should be some kind of ratio of consumption and movement in everything. Given that we have our own crisis aside from this global economic crisis, I wouldn't continue to stay on that income crap, just a little bit of an analysis of these expenditures. So the cost of renting 27 million, and we said we'd work on it not happening, so. The cost of transport and fuel services has now increased from 15 to 22, that's real, so we have inflation, we have consumption and we bought some extra vehicles, and then most likely we need a little more and consumption in that direction. What I don't understand here, Mr. Minister, is I'm interested in getting this equipment, but we'll probably see what kind of equipment we've been planning for 38 million and everything. And the most important thing I want to talk about is budget expenditure. The BiH Defence Ministry: In 2009, the budget was 154,237,268 million, and now 341,080 million, meaning more than double. I ask the question: on what basis we came up with an idea, aside from all this trouble, this kind of poverty, and everything to raise that battle and raise the budget of over 150 million, or we're going to buy some planes; if we did, and we know that, it would be our turn to explain it, so. 44 Despite this ministry, we have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: with 32 million comas, something went to 62. I ask the same question: it means what happens at the Foreign Ministry, what kind of negotiations we need to make and what they deserve a double budget. Next is under 27. State Agency for Investigation and Protection. That's where we gave 61,367 million again. I think this is too high for you to analyze many other ministries now. If we already have a story that the people are getting harder and harder to live, that the economy is collapsing, that we don't have the VAT inflow that's planned, then we're most likely asking the question of reduction, and why don't we put these funds in the crafts. If we had investments, I'm telling you, we wouldn't be having these problems if we were to make $5 million, a million, two. So all the promised investments remain an empty story and that's why we have a budget like this. What I'd like to say in the end, I really want to support this budget if it's going to come to 31.12, means we find a way normally for amendments to be corrected. If it's a April story next year, then I don't think of it and you really see what we're going to do in front of the people. If we're late with the budgets, then everyone's late for the country's budget plans, they'll be planning in May next year, and that'll be our picture from this year. So we're tendering there June-August, we're doing October-December, and that's where our calendar year ends. When everyone's planning next year, then we're running accounts in February of last year. So, does it make sense that this is how we treat ourselves, that's what I'm asking those who certainly have a majority in this House. And my support will be safe for refugees, I mean all those people who are both back and staying and all those people who, Mr. Minister, are refugees, so every time we're... some comeback, so we didn't have any thought of equating all the people who are compensated in some way and others aren't, and they're in the same position. And I also support these other proposals that were, and it primarily refers to the list; so we definitely have to start planning, and in order to plan, we need to know where we are, how many residents we have and what we have. And my next question will certainly be, and I hope you'll give it to the Commission when we discuss it, Mr. Minister, I'm interested in the real debt we owe. Thank you very much. I mean, outside debt.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31115	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31116	Thank you, Chairman. I wanted to consult a little bit, but I'm on my way now. ... I think Mr. Savo Erić, my dear colleague, made one mistake here so that there is no doubt that this budget of the Ministry of Defence for this year in the proposal is no bigger than last year; this is the table that was the execution of the Budget from the first of the sixth months for last year, and that is why there was a mistake. So he's smaller in the proposal than next year. 45 Furthermore, looking at this budget as a whole and thinking about the opinion given by the Finance and Budget Commission, it is not clear to me that we have talked here about two Commission conclusions adopted and already discussed, but I do not see here any reason why we should discuss these Commission conclusions because it says this: 'The Commission is in favour of' and one vote 'against' adopted the first conclusion that is'so I do not read it.' She also adopted a second conclusion that reads, not to read it. I don't see at all why we need to comment on these conclusions, if these are the conclusions of the Commission that are not binding anything on this Parliament, and if this is some kind of mistake, so if the Commission thought that these conclusions would suggest that the House would support them, it's something else, but it doesn't say so here. All it says here is that these are the conclusions of the Finance and Budget Commission, not the conclusions this Commission proposes this House to adopt when adopting this budget. So much for that. As far as this budget is concerned, a lot has been said and I'm going to try to say something quite small because there's no need to repeat it. What I think is controversial about this budget, or I'm going to try to say what's controversial about my point of view without looking, or I'm not saying what my colleagues said earlier or what they might say later, which is a list and a lease, something that is completely controversial to me. We'll probably get a list, or we'll probably get a response to the list by the end of the debate on this budget to see why this list is treated in this budget for the next year when we know that it should, here, happen at the time it's scheduled, or this through this budget has tried to obstruct it and not come to it. Then the lease. We also made a few conclusions last year and adopted in the adoption of the Budget or this year, it doesn't matter, for this year or before last year or for last year's adoption of the Budget for last year, in terms of the reduction of the disbursement from the Budget for the lease. I am not satisfied with this reduction, and I am not satisfied with what we should have done in the previous years, which is that we should have found out how we concluded in this House, find a way of certain opportunities to reduce the cost of some other activities,... and that is that we discussed then and thought about a certain credit debt to buy our own space because then we said and today, I stand behind it, that around our debts of the amount of the lease could cover approximately interest that could be paid by the loan we should or possibly could raise to buy those spaces. The lease, in my opinion, is a waste of money or a throw-off mark or whatever you want, down the water, and we can't catch any more. We need to get to the point that at least in the following year, so in 2010, we need to make one quality lease strategy, or for the space that we are renting for state institutions and the DKP network, etc., and we need to be able to read about it before the budget is adopted by some new parliament, but here maybe it was too late, it should have been done in this term much earlier in order to maybe have some effect for this year through this budget. This is how I think we haven't achieved our goal that we talked about in the adoption of the budget years ago, and I also think that this is something that we should take care of in the next period when we adopt the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31117	I thank the esteemed representative of Okolić. The next one is MP Milica Marković. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't be talking for long considering there's already been a lot of speakers and there's been a lot of that said. I just want to say a few things, which is my personal observations. So this 2010 Budget Law proposal for the institutions is controversial for me as an SNSD MP for the reason that he came and entered the procedure without the consent of a Serbian member of the presidency, so Mr Radmanović. This is one general observation and you can consider it a major remark on this SNSD budget proposal. As for others, so the number of beneficiaries of this budget that are planned to use the 2010 budget from the total mass of the Budget of BiH, I have a few questions for the minister. Before I say that it is only justified for me, there are several items, i.e. users who have increased enormously, enormously increased funds in 2010 compared to 2009. My personal view is that it can only be considered justified for the CEC, since next year is an election year, and as far as others are concerned, I am asking for clarification from the minister. So here I noticed that the foreign ministry has quite an increase to 62 million, and we see that 56 million were planned for 2009 and the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees where it was also increased to 48 million, and we see that the BiH Return Fund has been reduced from last year's 35 million to 610 000. So I'm looking for an explanation of why there's been such a disproportion and does it mean that we don't need this Return Fund anymore if this 600,000 means that it's basically 'leave 10 marks on the current account so your account doesn't go out'? And of course, what my colleagues mentioned earlier, I also want to potentiate the question of the census. Why are no funds planned in 2010 and does that mean yes to me, does this mean for the Council of Ministers and in general for BiH that we give up the job? So, what are the reasons why they're not at least an aproximately planned means for that purpose. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31119	I thank the esteemed representative Marković. The next is distinguished representative Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31120	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to point out that the course of the debate on the Bill on the Budget of the BiH institutions has shown today that we all care about this BiH budget being adopted by the end of this year. Probably for two reasons, and this is to increase the public responsibility available through timely adoption of this budget and the obligation to act accordingly in the spending of these funds and probably another important reason is to remain on the line of conservation of the BiH IMF's stand-by arrangement in terms of support. 47 I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Minister for the opening presentation and the reasoning of the principles on which this budget was made, and in particular to thank this explanation contained in the document of the budget, as reading this reasoning can get into almost all the details that follow BiH's budget. I think it is very important that we heard that this budget will by no means limit BiH's progress on the European path, or BiH's progress on its path to the Atlantic Alliance. I'd like to point out something here that isn't enough, though we all know it can be underlined. I think we all see that there has been an increase in responsibility in budget planning, but we should not run away from the assessment that this increase in responsibility is not enough for what seems to be in this Parliament, and that we come to a more responsible budget planning. On the other hand, I think it is important to point out that we have created assumptions that we are introducing the concept of the programme budget in BiH. And the document says that BiH is still at the initial stage of introducing a concept of the programme budget. Full implementation of this budget planning approach also takes a reasonable time to ensure all technical assumptions and to ensure that budget users acquire adequate knowledge and experience in the preparation and delivery of information in the format of the programming budget. After training that will be planned and planned in the coming years, it is expected to improve the quality of information delivered by budget users and in terms of defining and measuring the effects and cost justification of the programme and the efficiency of budgetary users in BiH institutions. It is very important that we have received in this document the tables in which we see the first information that the budget users have provided and from which it is truly seen that this is the very beginning and that there will be a need to further educate people in the BiH institutions, but the responsibility of the programme's institutions and managers will also have to be raised in order to shorten that time of improving accountability in budget planning. What would be good if we agreed here when the debate goes in such a responsible way is that it is very important that we found the strength to form the Fiscal Council of BiH by law. I think it's important that we have respected the fiscal council's decisions in recent years. I think it is important to give support to the Fiscal Council and this year in front of it in the coming years, because we are witnessing that even lower levels of government are looking at the fiscal council decisions for a reason when it comes to the budgetary frameworks of lower levels of government. I think it is important to point out that we have shown our understanding by proposing such a budget to finance lower levels of government according to constitutional competences. It would not be good to expect an understanding of the IMF and other financial institutions without having enough responsibility for each other. It could be said, with everything that has been brought here as an observation that the Fiscal Council has made a responsible decision against the situation in BiH. In the end, we have this chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, but here I am going to take the right to say something to myself. I think the Commission has proposed that the House support this conclusion. So probably, I have examined it myself and I think it is awkward to state that these are the Commission's conclusions, no, so the Commission has proposed that the House adopt these conclusions. That's not what it says, so the president should get up and probably do it, but here I was going to comment on it myself. What we all know is that this is the third time we've been through the same procedure. The framework of this 48 budget differs from the Council of Ministers, from the Presidency and it is the responsibility of this Parliament to finally bring the budget, without wanting anything special that the Commission has any merit, there is no merit. But it is important to point out that this is the only way to adopt this budget, all the long paths leading to the failure to adopt this budget. It is not possible in principle to resolve a different view of this budget. It is possible in the amendment phase to resolve these differences. It is not possible to bring down the principles through the Council of Ministers and come back to the Presidency with what would be Parliament's support. It is possible to accept principles with an obligation that in non-standard talks, and these are fellow MPs right, the situation requires non-standard procedures, but they will eventually come to terms with business procedures, to come up with one mathematics that will comply with the presidency's demands, and to respect the amendments of MPs that are of course and have the right to deliver them there, but to try to respect the fact that it would be good to respect those frameworks that the Fiscal Council has established because of what we have as a BiH Parliament and against BiH institutions, but also against constitutional jurisdiction of lower levels of government. The only way, so there's no other way. If there is, that other way should be suggested. It is not possible only by delivering the amendments to the majority to adopt this budget, but it is very important that it can be said in the end: no function in BiH institutions will be compromised, BiH will not be threatened by the way to European integration, and we will have this budget when the IMF asks us to do so, we will be entitled to the following funds, so the next tranche to ensure that all BiH budgets that need to be injected and that the overall situation on the ground is corrected. This first conclusion therefore calls on Parliament to put Parliament in charge of the Commission and the ministry. ... I think that there is already a formula that we will come up with additional funds for these amendments and this proposal of the Presidency, and I am convinced that in time we will get this budget that we can all be equally unhappy with, but we will have this budget that will allow us to remove some problems from the past when we have adopted it late and finally see that the differences that have cost us budgeting have not had any effect on which we should have put it off because the effects of timely adoption are far greater, and that is what all those who are dealing with it clearly point out. That's why I'm calling, sometimes I thought it was important to adopt it unanimously but now I see it's not real, because these differences appear... these differences that should not be calmed down until the final adoption of this budget. So, I propose that today we support the principles and these conclusions of the Commission and that the Commission is actively working with the Ministry. We thought, when there were no representatives of the Presidency, whether for formal reasons we should stop the debate on this budget, and then we understood that we should not; then I think that the Commission will be able to carry it out, and that at the next session that is scheduled here for 30, we will have a budget that will support it. It can then be supported unanimously or by a large majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31121	Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31122	And the replica is not a replica, just to be clear. So these conclusions mean that Parliament adopts these conclusions. I voted against these conclusions because Minister 49 Vrankić also did not vote for the fiscal council's decision there and I am not because of the state budget going down year after year. For those reasons, I was against these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31123	Thank you. The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31124	I thank and also apologize to those who are there for the simple reason that is finally the House of Peoples and the College in the next room; they expect me to come to a meeting together and I chose between taking a break and having a discussion and going there first, and continue to lead the second deputy to this session, the first deputy, and then I chose that way. If you disagree, I can do it in a different way. Anyway, I want to say my position on this budget because I think the fact that this budget is not in line with the frameworks set up by the Fiscal Council. The fact is that for the fourth time in a row, the Bureau revoted members from the RS increased income from the Single Account by 24.5 million and, I say, I don't know on the basis of which information it was managed that this revenue would be higher in 2010 at the Directorate for Direct Taxation and that, accordingly, it could be removed more by nearly 25 million, because it is obviously an imaginary item and that I believe that the way the budget comes here every year in Parliament, the responsibility for everyone else is back here in Parliament, and we take responsibility for all those who haven't done this job. We can also define our position here where we cannot support this budget that is not in line with the respected global framework, we cannot respect or vote this budget that is not in line with the final projection of revenue from indirect taxes and especially cannot support this budget when Article 5 is violated. The fiscal council law of BiH. The question arises: Why do we need this advice? I remind all those who have been passionately defending the law here, voted in favour of the law, believing that it would never come to a position in BiH to talk about the indicative budget and the budget framework, but that here in this room there would be a debate on certain items and a move from one item to another. At the same time, I see that the principles of this budget as a macroeconomic basis but also the conclusions that we make every year in this House are being violated. It's inconceivable that every year, 28 million this year we give to rent space. If we project it for 10 years, it's 200 million marks for renting space without having your own space. It's in this country that doesn't have enough money simply unacceptable. Even the premises that have been leased in all other private places have been reduced, surprisingly in BiH from 24 million items has been raised to 28. All other signs have reduced the lease of premises, only BiH and the joint institutions are ready to lease places across BiH at a higher price, and this is not acceptable and not how this BiH can work. 50 I would like to say that we from the SNSD Club will not support this budget and are asking to adopt the conclusion that the Bill on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2010 is returning to the alignment of the Fiscal Council of BiH in order to establish a new fiscal framework for BiH institutions. There is no need to conclude that he is returning to the presidency, because this is practically an obligation after this budget is not adopted, but I think this conclusion leads this budget to the Fiscal Council to make it a projection of the BiH framework budget to facilitate that the long-term presidency tries to make the budget suitable for the current social economic opportunities in BiH and suitable for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31125	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31126	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31127	There's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31128	I don't have any signed-up replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31129	I answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31130	I'm sorry, then. It wasn't registered. Replica, distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31131	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry that Mr. Živković has left and that there is no Mr. Laze Prodanović. Lazo Prodanović said in front of the SNSD that he would support it, but that the amendments would work on..., and now Živković said, so I would like to know, let me say, your harmonised position. I'm not asking for it to be for or against it, but I just think we need to know that part.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31132	The next replica is the esteemed representative Bajazit Jašarević. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31133	So I must say that I am surprised by the position of Chairman Živković, because it is not offering a solution to the situation. I don't know why the Fiscal Council, when the law-making procedure doesn't require the Fiscal Council to discuss what's written in the budget. To put it back in the process or by breaking the principles and by returning the Council of Ministers, it's a well-known procedure. So we need to bring these principles down today and bring back to the Council of Ministers who, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, will do what they've already done. They will deliver to the Presidency who will probably do what they did and we will again have the responsibility here to find between the two budgets offered a budget that will satisfy each other. ...and the Commission had that in mind, so it would be easier to vote, vote and not have a budget. When the goal is to have no budget, then the roads are infinite. But when the goal is to have a budget, then there is one way: to find the structure of the budget in the frameworks set by the Fiscal Council, and that is what it says in our Commission's conclusion, which will respect the Presidency's conclusions. Here, today there was a proposal by Dr. Prodanović in last year's amount that the Ministry of Finance may not agree with, but it is one of the proposals to find a common solution. I don't think we should go into budgets to get inadverted. We can barely bring him in when it's a normal time, let alone when this is a difficult time. The consequences of his failure are difficult for BiH and lower levels of government, not for institutions, lower levels of government. His return to the procedure will not therefore improve the situation; we will mostly get to the same one that we already have at our disposal today. So, I call (e, now there is no Mr Živković) to reconsider this conclusion and to support the Commission's and SNSD's conclusions, and then, working together on these conclusions, we get to the budgets that can be voted on by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31134	Thank you. The next replica, MP Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31135	I have to replicate what Mr. Bešlagić said. You, Mr. Bešlagić, must listen a little better when speaking to your colleagues. Mr. Prodanović did not say that the SNSD Club would support this budget because the club has not yet taken a stand, we will take the final position after the amendment phase, but said it is possible to fix this budget in the amendment phase. That's what he said and listen a little better when someone's talking. That is one thing, and secondly, I have already said in my discussion that the SNSD Club has been completely disputed and discussed with this draft budget for the reason that in its proposal, Serbian member of the SNSD presidency, Mr Radmanović, was preglasan over. And we once told you that all the laws proposed in the Council of Ministers by revoted RS ministers will never pass, as far as we RS MPs are concerned. But some colleagues here obviously think that whatever 52 of us are talking to me is going to be the way some other side will, but you'll see it won't be, and I think my predecessor said it's very bad and it's a bad message if this budget isn't adopted. I think, dear colleague, it's a much worse message if some things are made and decided by revote and by making the domination of one side of the other. It is the worst variant for BiH and we saw what happened in November when the Serbian people in BiH were revoted, when another party decided and others were minorised in this country. Now, don't live in the illusion that it's possible, we'll vote it over, we'll do it by domination, and the others as it is. It won't work that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31136	Thank you. The next replica is Honourable representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31137	Here, I thank Mrs. Milica for the replica because you confirmed what I said. Mr. Lazar said that through the amendment phase he would go on to improve this budget and to...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31138	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31139	No, he said go, take the record, but fine. Here, let it be possible, it's quite different than Mr. Živković said. And the other thing, what I saw and noticed, is that in fact, the overall budget in the BiH presidency is being revoted by a Serbian member of the presidency for the reason that Mr Silajdžić suggested that in this return budget, refugees and displaced persons increase by 20 million marks. Here, just take the data, last year the Fund, and you've figured it out well yourself, the Ministry's Return Fund and this budget amounted to 49 million 346 thousand, and today with those 20 million who are here today disputed and who you're talking about with a political aspect of this fund, and that ministry has 48 million 780 thousand, which means that even a million marks are forecasting to return refugees. Now, I'm just giving you information, and where it's going to be redeployed doesn't interest me at all at this point, but we're going to do it with the amendment phase. So, no, I didn't say anything. I'm just saying I'd like to have an explanation, because if you get a sign on the phone that you don't need to vote for it, then let's make arrangements at the beginning so we don't have this kind of argument in the middle. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31140	Thank you. The next line has a respected representative, Bajazit Jašarević. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31141	I'd like to point this out if it's not possible to bring in a budget, and in addition to budgeting, some other goals can be achieved. It is in itself so complex, it is complex everywhere, that we cannot resolve here a complex issue of the revote of representatives of one people and of the Council of Ministers and of the Presidency. And nobody's happy about it. So they don't exist, it seems to me in this House what we know so far, people who are liquefiing, which is why they're particularly happy. That is why these solutions are also the only possible solutions to be discussed further. We can't make any decisions, no laws, nothing but introduce more conversations between us and come up with final solutions. So, I assure to consider SNSD until the vote. [[Here I call again, so I don't even have a replica anymore]] The effects of that revote of this budget I don't believe will be negative, here by interest and those represented by the SNSD here, I don't believe. It's one picture that's not good, but the effects of it won't be, because there's a mechanism that we've already been through in the previous years, that's going to give total results. And I have an obligation from a previous period to say: the census, if we pass a census law, the minister doesn't even have to think, he'll say he has money, not because this country has money, but because the census is so important that the money is born. But we haven't once sat down to discuss the law to agree on how to do it, and it's not a disputed law, it's two to three members. And today, this College is sitting there with the Commission on Economic Reform and Development, trying to get Article 5 and Article 6 and Article 2 behind that to try to agree to the list law. Will he be here? It won't be if we don't agree on how we're gonna pass the law. But if we agree on how to pass the law, so here's the minister if he comes out, he'll say, the money for the census will be as long as it makes sense to ask him for the time he needs to prepare the census. I don't know why I'm worried about that census, and I'm gonna need to be there with this committee, but I'm calling again to support the principles of this law and try to restore our initial positions through the amendments. I'm sure we have enough experience and courage to bring this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31142	Thank you. Dear representative Milica Marković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31143	So what I'm saying is, I don't know why fellow MPs need to comment on something some other fellow MPs ask as a question. I asked the question about the Return Fund and I don't know why you, Mr. Bešlagić, answer when I didn't ask you for an explanation, I asked the competent minister to explain it. What do you need that for? Why do you do this to explain to me what it is when I do not expect it from you? You may see yourself one day in the chair, you may already see yourself in the chair of the finance and vault minister, but I think you have very little chance of realistically speaking about it. 54 A... same goes for the population list. Why do you comment on our comments regarding the census when we do not ask you to, we are asking for the Council of Ministers' position, not the position of fellow Members. And I don't know why you're potentialing now, though, and I've potentiated the revote, it's a huge political remark to us why this budget is so proposed and brought into that form. But we didn't just say that the thing is why we won't support the budget by voting, that's the first thing, right after that following the essentials of our remarks. Do you think it is justified to suggest that funds from the Directorate for Direct Taxation be processed, and that no one has a realistic assessment of whether there will be an increase in these funds in the Directorate for Direct Taxation for as much as proposed to take or to increase what counterpart Živković was talking about from 24 to 28 million questions about renting premises for BiH institutions. Do you think these aren't essential things? Now, these are some of the following reasons that are controversial to us in this proposal, but you keep trying: let's break it now over our knees so that we can convince them that it's a state problem if there's no budget. Well, if there isn't a good correct and quality budget, then there shouldn't be one.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31144	Before continuing, just a few notes. We were in college a little optimistic, at one point there was only one more application for discussion and we thought at 13.30 to take a break, otherwise usual. How can we see that it is unpredictable now, that is, if we see that it is unpredictable, when there could be an end to the debate on this agenda point, and that we are a little relaxed before the debate continues, a break of up to 14.45. At 14.45, the debate continues on this agenda point. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31145	My fellow Members and fellow Members, I would like to ask you for a little itching to try to continue the agenda, the debate is on the Budget Law proposal, and it is not over. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. In fact, Professor, if you are, and he's already got his word. Then, honourable Member of the Parliament of Remzija Kadrić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31146	I'll just be brief, I've been meaning to ask the minister while he's here, and in the break I've got some explanation, but here's for the other MPs. So, I wanted to, I asked what about this, when it comes to the revenue from the concession, by applying this Agreement on the Sucession of the former SFRY, so I got the clarification that these assets were already taken by the entities and this is just an entity claim. I'd like the finance minister to give us a more detailed explanation if he's in a position. So... this agreement that was signed 10 years ago, what is the state of affairs when it comes to this division of funds from a succession, but here, unfortunately, I think we got very little of those couples and what is planned,...that's the money that the entities are supposed to have already taken over and this is just an entity claim. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31147	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31148	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I hope that I will not be interrupted now, although I will be quite brief, because today many MPs have said what is actually said and what is fundamental in favour of budgeting. Still, I have to say some sort of opinion. Some things we can postpone and some things we can bring if not this year then next year, and some things don't have time to wait. And therefore, these things must be dealt with as a matter of priority. In my opinion, the most important thing that we should do in BiH at all, which is to get people back to their hearths as soon as possible, means to force the return of displaced people, exiled, and whatever you want to call them, it doesn't matter. There is no greater moral or ethical virtue than to do that. And that's why I don't think there's a man in this room who'll object to the return of refugees giving us a certain amount of money that should be. And what was proposed by the Presidency, in my court, is very little. Today, some debaters spoke the same discussion last year about budgeting. The fiscal council needs to stick to its own stuff, and I'd say that was the Prudish agreement on the adoption of the budget. There's been talk of fairy tales that 500 thousand marks, 500 million credits, and a loan to return refugees. There's never been a single mark. And we must not allow ourselves that item at the expense of any other item without increasing it. There may be some guilt between us and we bear some responsibility. There's always talk of the Fiscal Council. It now turns out that those people who spoke against such a solution to the Fiscal Council were right. They were right because we created a fiscal council from a finance minister who drags everyone to himself to solve his problem. I've been to the government, I've kept the health department, you know, and normally, always a man trying to solve his problem. And I'm not surprised that two finance ministers from two entities were solving the problems of entities at the expense of the state. But the question is, what kind of message are we going to send, everyone who swears to Europe, that we want to enter, go and enter Europe, we want BiH to be a member of the UN, as it is called, the Security Council or as you call it, I no longer follow those foreign international organisations, what kind of message we will make if we do not provide certain funds, because it cannot be entered into Europe without work. There are certain things to be done. We must make it possible for these people who will represent European integration and we have sworn everything we have to do to resolve it in some way. It doesn't have to be here anyway, regardless of these principles of budget and this kind of budget, I will support it, but I have to say my personal opinion that a good spending party has to be reviewed. We need to get out of this budget everything that can only sustain itself. And I'm telling you, there are a lot of agencies that I can support myself. If here's the area I know best, and that's, I mean, it's my profession, the Medicines Agency. If she's a regulatory body, and she needs to be and she needs to be independent, she shouldn't be in the budget, she can support herself. And if you look at it, the Food Agency, so in the U.S., the Institute of Food and Medicinal Products is 56 in common. It's the Institute that has the highest income in the United States. That's what we can do. A lot of speakers here today said good things, good things. And I look forward to it because today it has been shown that there is hope in this parliament. There is certainly hope among us to bring certain things in a certain and good way. And there's one other thing, I'm an optimist, by nature I'm an optimist... can't be another year worse than this year, but under one condition, you don't have to stop projects that bring employment and profit. And I'm not going to say, I'm generally telling me, by looking at the political side, we're stopping certain projects that could support BiH at full capacity. So let's let's let it go when it comes to economics, let's put politics aside, let's go wherever we can do more to go. To tell you the truth, I neither like or hate Dodik, but I don't like his moves, that's clear. He's got his own policy and nobody's gonna say it, but there are certain things that a man has done at some point and no matter what they've done, the oil refinery has started to do some production. And when the oil refinery started doing some production, then the company that received concessions from Pristina to export that particular heavy oil abroad. So the economy creates mutually good relations, the economy unites us and the economy creates progress. And, please, all those who try to stop certain projects with their political games, we need to fight them. Against the media, against the newspapers, whether they're private or not, it doesn't matter, there's nothing I haven't been declared when I was a minister in the government, let's just say, Alliance. I was in the government. But I wasn't afraid. I've also been building projects in the ministry, and behind me are the works that stand still today. I wasn't cut out for any criminal charges, because I wasn't afraid. I know I didn't steal and I don't care. Therefore, with a good political and good will and we to review certain legal projects that we have already done, we can increase this income in a certain way, and there is certainly room for a reduction in expenditure matters. It's unimaginable to me, it's always unimaginable for people to come to the ministry, buy new cars,... not buy a secretary but get a new secretary and spend money. Therefore, there we can find certain reserves and who the code says can't find the reserve, he's not telling the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31149	Thank you. Wait a minute. First Vice-President, Honorary Ambassador Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31150	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31151	Please, just a minute. 57 NO ONE
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31152	: I... about the macroeconomic aspects of this budget I have no intention of talking about because there are many more invited than I am to speak on this subject, so I will refrain from doing so. I will try to say something about... the reasons that I am here and the HDZ BiH Club motivates us to support the draft budget law today and hopefully by the end of this year we have a budget before the calendar year ends. Every budget whenever adopted, both before and after New Year's Eve, both in the municipality and in all levels of government that we have in BiH, and also at the state level, is certainly the most interesting topic and there are always more who are unhappy with what is on the spending side, rarely who deals, I must say, with the income side. And it's absolutely legitimate and everyone has the right and opportunity to show their satisfaction and dissatisfaction. This budget is one in a series of budgets which, as the title says to him, 'The budget of BiH institutions and external debt', means we have two things set out through this budget, we need to secure the financing of BiH institutions and we need to properly service the external debt. Something that does not appear in the title of this budget, which may be specific to this year, is the fact that the adoption of the budget before the end of this calendar year, one of the conditions that we have committed to in the talks with the International Monetary Fund, one of the conditions of which depends on the implementation of further tranches and further arrangements with the International Monetary Fund. And that third condition goes beyond just the financing of BiH institutions and the service of external debt. This third condition essentially underlines our line of responsibility for the state's full state of affairs, not just for the financing of institutions. By moving one or the other, we will help our colleagues in entity parliaments and governments, or we will help them. We need to know that, I mean, clearly. We know that for various reasons, I'm not going to discuss it at all now... we have terrible dubiosis, I'm going to say in both entity budgets, no matter what nobody convinces me, I have no intention of me here now to bid which entity is better, worse, etc. So, first of all, they have the need for this arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. We have one catch which I am commenting on, and it's probably rightly placed, and as far as: is this budget that came from the Bureau as the Budget Proposal, in line with the recommendations, the decisions, now I'm not sure, of the Fiscal Council? And we know it's not. We have passed the law, this Parliament and the Fiscal Council, and it is our turn to send everyone else a message that both entities and all other levels, is it so, it is time to respect the laws while they are in force, so whatever they are and as much as we like, is it a good thing that there are ministers, prime ministers, whether they need someone else, it's all about the debate over the law. However, we now have this law, and it is our turn to promote the rule of law, and I am absolutely convinced that neither the Presidency in proposing, I would say, and a little leaping out of this framework was intended not to break the law, but simply wanted to send a message to us here to be good or to be very bad, let me be more precise, that in this budget we do not have the intended even symbolic means, because these are indeed symbolic means for the question of displaced persons and refugees. So, not to repeat,... some colleagues reminded us of our conclusions, of our obligations, I think that today's comment on a representative's question and 58 answers gave light to that question and I think it should remain a commitment, so, no matter what the problems. However, we can also blame the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Displaced Persons and Refugees for why no credit has been realised, but for any credit, you economists know it better than I do, you have to have some kind of program. You can't just say - I want a loan. When you're in the bank as a private person, you're looking for some kind of program. So here in this paragraph, we haven't adopted that revised strategy that's assuming that the return programme, which is once again the assumption that we might be able to use some kind of program by someone who's well-intentioned to show up and look for credit for those purposes. So there's a ball back in our penitentiary, so to speak. So, but in order not to, then, here and through this budget, bring those who, I must say, have no chance of affecting us here... in an uninvited position, and I believe that the budgets of both entities will be in a very invisible position, unless there is a realisation of this further programme from the stand-by arrangement, and that we are keeping an account of it means that we are not bringing..., I don't know, some 20-30 million that are possible for consent, and I have today concluded from the debate of the vast majority of MPs that there is no dilemma, that we need to look for a way to bring it down into fiscal frameworks, or in the decisions of the Fiscal Council, and how to ensure at the same time that we meet, here I see most of what it is said, the demands of the Presidency. Yeah, that's our obligation, too, that the Presidency didn't suggest it,...to see if it's possible and more than 20, 30 or I don't know how many millions for... displaced persons and refugees. But esteemingly, it means, what's in the current state. There are many questions: is the financing of all institutions and all expected processes in the next period for institutions for which no laws have yet been passed, cannot be planned as an item, right? Let's just say, this Anti-Corruption Agency, it was a question, we're just agreeing with the House of Nations, today, I hope, we'll choose these committees that will bring this law into line. So when we do, then we create a commitment to the Ministry of Finance to and finance that agency, I believe that through the reserved funds for those purposes will be found and space for that. The same questions are for other topics, but I would not like to open it, so I see no reason why we really don't, in fact, refer to the budget today, first of all, one positive message, the willingness to respect each other and the differences, respecting all needs, indeed, by the end of this year to help our colleagues in both entities and thus to make our contribution to a stabilisation of financial flows in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31153	Thank you. Dear Minister Vrankić wanted to say something at the end of the debate on this point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31154	Thank you very much. Here, I thank you for all the questions and comments and... especially the distinguished representative Jašarević who, through his explanation, noticed that a great deal of effort has been made to improve this reasoning of the budget and that only these 260 pages, how much explanation this year, 59 speaks a lot about themselves and how much we have made. And the answers to many of your questions are just in that explanation, and I'd like today to sit here and review, for a lot of reasons. I'd love it for me, I'd love it for you, and I'd love it for them. We'd all go out one more step of quality together and we'd certainly do all the interventions for another step of quality, and if that's how we do it every year on the stairs, then I'm sure of the ultimate goal. And anyone who thinks it can be done overnight or doesn't know matter or has other intentions to qualify it differently. When I see this part of the questions asked here, I'm going to try a little bit of what I've managed to do taxively, and then we can do through other questions or through the subsequent period, so until this second phase, give specific answers. Dear Representative Novaković asked about the IMF and about my explanation and interest. I'm just going to subdue one more time, I think it's one good and creamy thing to do a little more, when it comes to the IMF and the arrangement signed with them, once again underline, no one has committed us to anything. We have asked the International Monetary Fund, given that we are a member, to provide us with services that we have the right to through a signed contract, that is, by joining the International Monetary Fund... to take advantage of certain rights... out of it, one of the rights that we call carrots, and the other we often call... beating. And the beating is that we recognize the policies that we recognize, and we've put them in our program so that we can spend them, and that's what the people call a beating. But this carrot you asked about, it's really not a loan, it's just a quality loan, I've explained it before, and you probably misunderstood me. So it's one quality loan, short-term for a three-year period and with a very low interest rate. The interest is slightly higher than 1%, but it is good at this point, because we are leading the country's macroeconomic stability policy and achieving a target deficit that is 5.1% and 2010. 4.7%. And, using the funds of the International Monetary Fund, we're practically closing that deficit and we have a consolidated balance sheet where our left and right sides are equal and we're actually going out on a green branch so that we can also implement policies for the next period called simply reducing public spending and increasing investment. And all the philosophy of the economy is in that. ... If we know to reduce public spending and create funds to invest, we have a chance, the task is not a problem, but a problem in the structure of the debt. Someone asked that part, and now I'm going to tell you that (Prodanović or I don't know who asked) our public debt is 4.2 billion. Our private debt that mostly goes through commercial banks is slightly less than 10 billion, it's somewhere around 58% of GDP. I had 10 days ago the US Ambassador and Director of the Japan Development Agency who, in fact, the deputy director who sat in Vienna and came to this area and was interested in investing in BiH and in talking to him told me a data that I didn't know, but could probably just come to him, the responsibility of Japan was 185% of the GDP. Against our 50% or 58%, right now we should say that we're a little bit in charge, that we're stable, etc. It is not a problem at the level of debt but in the structure and quality of the debt, because they are in charge of producing, exporting, etc. and the duty to export is absolutely the right responsibility. So we appeal once again, everything we have to do in our budget we don't do this at the expense of investment, we prefer to do it at the expense of spending, and it will certainly give a much better result. One question was the Anti-Corruption Agency – is it in this budget? It is not in this budget because it is not fully established. We have the intended funds of a reserve for 60 establishment of new institutions, so if there is a capacitation and the establishment of absolute funds are secured for that institution. There was also a question about this part of the loan, so what about 689 million marks from the Single Account. I have to say that the truth is that I was on the Fiscal Council against this decision when it reduced participation from the Single Account in favour of the State to 689 million, i.e. to remain the same level as the previous, last and this current year. But we also found a compromise solution: 40 million marks were compensated with DPL loans, yet it is one loan that is also related to the further continuation of the arrangement with the IMF, also favourable loans from the World Bank, and in that context I think we have full understanding. Because someone here spoke earlier when we looked at the total balance sheet of the entity, then we saw that both entities were in charge: the Federation has a deficit of 750 million marks, RS 730 million marks. And in this context, we set ourselves our stated goals to make it 5.1% in 2009, and in 2010 to go to 4.7% and through these all instructions and this all we have done is to effectively close the deficit, but one of the great conditions, I would say now, the passing time or the passing gate is just the adoption of the budget according to what we have committed, so by the end of the financial year, because then a lot of things are going to fall into the water and they're going to have new positions, new tasks, and we're certainly not going to achieve a deficit of 4.7% but it's going to be much bigger. And that brings us to a terrible big and new problem that I'm not sure we'll be able to solve. It was a question for the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I, on several occasions, and with Resolute Minister Čolak, met with representatives of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office and said the funds would not be a problem for the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. And we've intervened from the current reserve this year, even those funds haven't been spent, even though we've secured them. And I think there's even extra funds left. But we have positioned in this budget in full capacity both the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, provided they are all domestic and judges and prosecutors, so absolutely means no problem in financing, it was our principled position, so it's absolutely in that part and information to you all that you know her completely. It was the Central Bank's question – could the Central Bank be able or is it normal, as far as it's secured? Yeah, that's absolutely right. We're just asking for a written statement from them, what they're planning. I'd like it to be and not go any lower, and you know that's the reason, the financial market situation, is to cut the interest on our assets, so our agent, our central bank, is doing it for us. When it comes to succession, too, it's already a certain job to me, 169 million we suggested, the Fiscal Council made a decision. It was the law, I don't know if it came through here or if it was withdrawn. Then OHR made a decision, so he imposed the law and by that law 10% belongs to us, that's 17 million marks, and I don't think there's anything else we can fix. When it comes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are, is there an increase in funds, because this budget provides for two buildings, buildings in Zagreb and Belgrade. You know that we're paying a huge rent there, and that's how we position these two objects permanently in these two centers, and that's why that increase. Now, what's also important when it comes to the Fund of Returns. It's true that the funds were at the Ministry, last year they were at the Return Fund. By law, the Return Fund is the 61 that implements it, and the ministry will have to provide it with a grant to the Fund for Return which is the implementer of the funds. And she can also go straight to this fund, we won't make any mistake, I think it's more of a technical thing and we just have to define ourselves towards her. And right away to take the opportunity to say that when it comes to these funds that we or we had the task of providing them, I did the interviews and writtenly argued with financial institutions, from the World Bank,..., the EBRD and the CBA, and they are absolutely not interested in coming back anymore. It was the first decade after the war in BiH when they had it in their plans and programmes, they have absolutely no funds now. Then I went to the OPEC Fund, I went to the Saudi Fund, and that's where I got the positive answers, where we could possibly be in charge, we have the explicit answer. However, they are looking for concrete documentation and concrete projects. And I think it's up to us to make concrete projects, to deliver documentation, and I think we can secure, I think, already in the first year of some certainly between 50 million and 100 million marks so that we can secure this year if we can secure the necessary documentation that they're looking for. When it comes to the Statistics Agency, you know that no law has been passed, and I said that before, and what, when I initiated the idea, I wish there was an audit, then there was that constant question, so maybe you MPs, that I wasn't being incorrect to you again, suddenly it seemed to me that the Ministry of Finance was wrong about everything. And when the Ministry of Finance proposes something, it suggests, then there's no such thing as an echo to be respected and accepted on one such matter. And we can't put anything in the budget that's not based on decisions and laws. And absolutely everything that we do so we have that day D when the audit comes that guides us, so it gives us a conditional opinion or bad planning. Then everyone says: crime is at the Ministry, crime is here, crime is there, so last year we ended up as the Ministry of the SIPA, so here, I'm glad that as much as I have information the answer is favourable to us, that there was no crime. But when it is taken into the public's echo, then you have to justify yourself to it whether... and all in good intentions to help and to realize certain demands of budget users. So, when it comes to statistics, no law has been passed, but whatever it is, we have accepted an increased number of employees precisely because of the preparation for the census and there are millions of marks that we transferred from last year, because they were the funds that were donated and they were transferred for 2010 as basic funds. I think they can be used, and if we get to the law then, what you said, we're gonna have to find a way to secure the funds. Here, I'm standing in that disposition that's how it's gonna be. The Ministry of Defense was also mentioned. I have to say, it's been a lot to get into the structure and observation and viewing, but I think it's good in the explanation of this budget that the funds have been increased, but you can see why they've all grown. It is precisely because of our commitment to join the Partnership for Peace and NATO that we must adequately prepare, train, that we must have certain equipment. First, in this sense, there was an increase in these costs because, I don't know, only uniforms are to tens of millions of marks that must be and are mostly the biggest increases in that part. And on the other hand, that remark that went that we hadn't followed the Ministry of Defense enough, I have to say that they haven't made a lot of procedures that the law requires them to do, they haven't followed our instructions, you haven't answered our specific questions, and that's why they were denied for certain means. And finally, there are no decisions by the competent institutions that accept their programmes that they have requested to finance, nor by the Council of Ministers, nor by the Defence and Security Commission, I don't know who... can approve it all. 62 Here, I'm just this in short lines, which I could record and give the answers. And I would once again ask that in this budget and with those remarks we've made we have a way to please everyone. The amendment period is ahead of us and do whatever you can to keep it out of our hands. The state institutions have been ahead in meeting the conditions when it comes to the stand-by arrangement, not now because of this little funding and this little time left to make the passage and to ensure that we adopt the budget and give our pain to the realisation and successful step-up of BiH through these measures and programmes that we ourselves have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31155	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And we're going to point four, I'd say five. In our discussion on the agenda, we had suggestions to bring together a debate on points 4 and 5. If anyone's against us voting on that request. Namely, point 4. is: Ad. 4. Confirming BiH Council of Ministers' decision to replace BiH Council of Ministers for Human Rights and Refugees The chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers is 4. 12. delivered a decision to replace the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees at the Council of Ministers. The proposal of the Extended College is to conduct a single debate on this point and point 5. Point 5 is Ad. 5. Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the reasons for the delay in ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol (in line with the conclusion of the House at the 65th session, held on 7. 12. 2009)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31158	Thank you, Chairman. It would make sense that we might have someone from the Council of Ministers, if nothing else, for information from the Council of Ministers, not... a proposal for a decision from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. But here, we got both material. They are specifically related to a particular problem, which is the issue of this information, is it related to the activities undertaken in connection with the accession of BiH to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol. The information which has technically been drawn up here has been explained by the decision dates and numbers, etc. It's a sequence of events. What I mentioned during the debate on the agenda, we appreciate in the Party for BiH that a technical question here has been tried to translate into a political field, that the point here and not at all in the ratification of the Convention, which can, of course, be discussed with the position of the dates that are set here, but with what has arisen or is due to come from the ratification of the UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities. Of course, to remind ourselves of the initial and all that was happening here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to remind ourselves of the letters that we all as members of Parliament received from persons with disabilities, where they were numbered, of course, the requirements of which are one of the requirements of ratification of conventions and a number of other requirements concerning the need for the adoption of laws on persons with disabilities at the level of the state, the fund for financing compensations derived from the above-mentioned law, family law at the level of the state, the law on pension-qualification, that the Council of Ministers provided in the budget the funds for the normal work of the Association of Persons, to amend the Election Law, etc., not to list in detail. But what I'm drawing attention to is just focusing on one unsuspecting, I'm going to call it, focusing on one... of the demands, or one area to avoid, of course, and talking about other requirements, or other topics that are listed here. And what I mentioned earlier in the debate on the agenda is true and it would be logical that the chairman of the Council of Ministers or resolution ministers are present when discussing the points of the proposal, whether, or some ministry or Council of Ministers, in terms of and explanations, as we have heard from the esteemed finance minister on two occasions, the reasoning of discussions and issues that were raised here through the budget debate. It would be logical if, and when we had hot potatoes here in Parliament, we had neither the blame nor the duty, that we had the Council of Ministers, or the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, and that it was evident about all the requirements that are set out here. So, we appreciate that, once again, to get back to the essence of the problem, there is also, and we have repeatedly warned that there is a discrepancy and uninstitutionalized coordination and perhaps already overcome provisions of the law that regulate the procedures that are at stake here. And we have even been to adopt in this House amendments to the law just to make the whole system more effective. Unfortunately, there was not enough hearing in this parliament to get the law to a sufficient majority. We also know for what reasons he was gone and here I will, although I would not refer to technical details and information about the Council of Ministers, warn that they are exactly the largest, if someone has called this a delay in the ratification process, but the greatest waste of time since the first decision or the first step BiH has taken towards ending this process of ratification of this Convention and done there, which we have also warned as a need to amend the provisions of the law and that this country is not 64 hostage to entities and entity consent, etc. who know how to last in the adventure journey of the spirit. So, we are in order to reject this proposal from the Council of Ministers' Presidency, a proposal for a decision that does not have a foothold at least in such arguments given here, not to dispute, of course, the legal basis, but we can, of course, ask the question here on the legal basis of other ratifications, other conventions, international agreements and legal bases that are generally respected here or based in procedures. We can also discuss how to work and deal with certain issues and topics that come from individual ministries. Here I am just going to remind you and we can ask, of course, and question the Council of Ministers. I, although I'm not discussing from the position of any guilt address, but my discussion is more to solve or perhaps point to the essence of the problem, if wandering or possibly uninstitutionalized coordination exists which is why we have or can have qualifications of this kind as was the case. But here I'm going to remind you, let's say, from this ministry that has been rated here as unworked, unscheduled, done harm, etc. what qualifications are given here in reason: The Council of Ministers was sent to the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2008, the proposals for decisions that were never put on the agenda, 16 January 2008, the order was sent to the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2008, 24 June 2008, 15 September 2008, 6 January 2009, and these documents were never placed on the agenda of the Council of Ministers; secondly, the document addressed to the Council of Ministers 29. 12. 2008 which has never been included in the agenda; the third that was sent on 18 July 2008 which has never been included as a item of the agenda. So, we can discuss in different ways, we can, of course, make fun of ourselves, and we can say and bring this decision, that is, the proposal for a decision by the Council of Ministers to question, and with this last sentence, that no additional funding from the institution's budget is necessary for the implementation of this decision, which is not true. Because, as far as I know, former Minister Sadović is still receiving salary from the budget, please correct me if that is not the case. So, this is about damage, it's about missing activities, the care of the Council of Ministers chairman on a very sensitive issue of people with disabilities, etc. in one way that also points to the Council of Ministers' commitment, in particular the Chair of the Council of Ministers, to meet and request persons with disabilities. And here, and in that sense, perhaps, in the name of the club, we should express hope that demand number two, three, four, five, six, after the request 1 has already been completed in the procedure, will very quickly find its place here in the parliamentary benches. Therefore, the chair, or distinguished members of the College, in the absence of any explanation of this information by the Council of Ministers, and for this decision, indeed, as far as we are concerned, there is no need for any explanation. We suggest that this decision be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31159	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31160	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues of Hadžiahmetović, normally, does not miss the chance not to put that syntagma around entities and states and hostages, but it always seems like a story to me that children can be hostages of parents and, vice versa, that parents can be hostages of children, but well, it's not a topic now. I don't know how someone can somehow create an enemy atmosphere toward the part of the country we live in, but it's some old story of ours. I volunteered to replicate even though I waited and agreed this morning and I don't think this will be a full debate, because we thought that the chairman of the Council of Ministers should probably say some details that aren't in this information and that's why we insisted that he be there, and well, we didn't get any support for that, and for that reason... there won't probably be a full debate. But it's quite enough what it says here that we can't accept the allegations of colleagues of Azra to be technical. People occupied Parliament, held us or tried to hold us in some way as hostages due to the technical issue. That's not working, I don't think that's right and that we can't make what happened in Parliament a technical issue right now. What the hell didn't someone say to Mr. Arapčić? It's a technical question. Get out! But then it was said that it was a terribly important question and that we were collected from all sides and that it had to be solved, because there would be even greater whiteness. And that we need to solve some guilt, that's what we're told, that someone messed up somewhere, let's not open that question, that we do what we do, so we'll see who screwed up, who put us in that situation, that's what we're told. I mean, I know that you have the best information about their intentions and the store, but it says here enough that someone is guilty. But moving that to the domain of the technical question is impossible. And here, we don't care if it's someone's fault, but it's not real to get out of this if it's nobody's fault. We had a situation here like we had, I know what my colleague Bahtić throws, sometimes that's what my dear colleague Huskić can say - always gets you what you didn't see coming. Probably the SBiH would prefer that Minister Halilović be replaced by someone else about your attitude, but it's impossible, yes, yes, for last night, because you always said - if someone could handle it without you having to... about suffering. When we replaced Sadović, it was not a technical issue, then it was an important state issue. And then there were stories that we should consider.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31161	Please, please, feel free to answer, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31162	So, I'll probably discuss it later, I expect the minister here will probably explain a lot, and we don't know. Not at this point in responsibility, but the fact that these documents show someone's guilty and the fact that we witnessed the atmosphere is someone's fault.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31163	Time! 66
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31164	And we're asked, so I end up, we're asked that even though we weren't guilty of doing our job to save someone's fault in some way and then we found someone's fault, that's what we're told here and that's what we're promised.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31165	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31166	Wrong quote, wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31167	It'll count as a replica, be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31168	Well, is there a false allegation, a correction of the wrong assumption? There is, isn't there? So, I refer to a part of my colleague Kalabić's discussion, which part of my discussion addressed to a completely different field. I said that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, by reason of this decision, had tried to transfer one technical question to the political field. So that's one thing. Secondly, I did not say by any chance that the demands of persons with disabilities that I have partially counted here are a technical question. And here in that sense I'm correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31169	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31170	Well, I'd just like to say that I'm glad that colleague Kalabić said that he wouldn't, he wouldn't be, not for Minister Halilović's shift, and I know it, drago, if you hadn't, but what I'm going to do, you have to finish the mission, but I suggest you cancel once and you obey more, let go... centralism, it's been a long time since, there's nothing there. Think for yourself and go for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31171	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31172	Please! 67
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31173	Here I said, I agree with you. Don't you and we'll see, let us go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31174	Thank you. Rifat Dolić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31175	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, we have learned from this Council of Ministers that instead of reforms and reform laws, human soap operas that are properly depicting the state of government in the ruling coalition, as well as a picture of the authorities in BiH. After all, I don't think anyone needs to hear more about what we've touched the European bottom and what progress we're making only on the crime rate ranking. The so-called disability crisis is only a small part of the shame that this Council of Ministers has exposed us to, and that the chairman of the Council of Ministers has been so expediently replacing those responsible in the Council of Ministers for Shame that we have been exposed to so far, the Council of Ministers would probably remain, not without ministers, deputies and assistants, but also without cleaners. If Minister Safet Halilović deserves a shift that has not been ratified in time by the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, imagine how many people and who should be replaced for the humiliation that citizens are given by the failure to fulfil the obligations to lift visas, leaving BiH in the MAP for NATO, lagging on the European path, the title of the most corrupt country in Europe and other infamous titles. I'm not going to say anything new if I say that this Council of Ministers has been working as an unsettled radio since day one, in which every minister is a personification of the editorial policy of the party from which he comes and plays music on the notes of his leader. I've been a beekeeper since I was a kid, and I've learned that a hive with a lot of bees buzzing and buzzing different and unmeasured tones has the first problem with the queen, either it's bad or it's gone at all. When we open a hive like this, there's usually no honey in it and there's lots of drones. In a bee dictionary way, our Council of Ministers has long buzzed and there is no honey at all. I will not bid on who the drones are and I will not say that there is no worker, but objectively, gentlemen, this authority has humiliated BiH and all its citizens no matter what their names are and how we pray to Bog or pray to Bog at all. As much as anyone demeans and empowers the Council of Ministers, it is for me the government of this country, and this country deserves and needs a better government to serve citizens, not parties like this. I will not vote today to confirm the Council of Ministers' decision to replace Minister Halilović because such a decision is primarily the result of relations and conditions in the Council of Ministers, or within the parliamentary majority, and only then is the result of what it says in this decision on the shift. In order to confirm the Council of Ministers' decision, I will not vote because the Council of Ministers is in such a state not to assist these individual operations because the entire organism is clearly incurably ill. 68 So, without any doubt, I would vote today for the shift of the entire Council of Ministers, but I do not want to support these individual staff soap operas because the ruling parliamentary majority believe that it has enough capacity to handle it on its own or if it does not, it would be necessary for them to step down on their own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31176	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Is that the first address today? Yeah, okay. _________(?) When it is not difficult for you, when it is difficult to speak, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31177	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I usually say so first, but here, first of all, when we open this item of the agenda, it would be good to realize that the BiH Parliament and the Council of Ministers, the government as a whole, has entered the last year of the four-year term. The drivers who operated a ship called BiH were mostly wandering in the past 10 months, and I don't believe that we can expect anything special to be expected, it would be a good thing if that ship didn't hit an iceberg. We have 10 months left until the election, and usually in developed democracies, that time is spent, among other things, on the question of what is the summary of the work of a particular government, what has it promised, what it has done, what it has missed possibly to do, etc. However, instead of the annual review of the work of the Council of Ministers, which is what we should get from our Rules of Procedure, instead, we received a New Year's card in the light of the motion for a decision to replace the Minister of Human Rights. The decision signed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers puts very heavy accusations in its reasoning. Among other things, the entire ministry and minister are being accused of reckless and irresponsible work, for the work that has been done, I quote: 'the reputation of the Council of Ministers of BiH and that the resolution minister is not showing enough interest in helping disabled people'. These are evaluations in an explanation put by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. I am today not going to enter into the accuracy or inaccuracy of these qualifications because at the end of my discussion I am going to propose a concrete conclusion. However, it is quite clear that the question arises when it comes to these qualifications of unhappiness, responsibility, non-interest, absence of results, etc. how many such assessments can apply to only one minister in the Council of Ministers or, better said, how many assessments are in place for all or all of the Council of Ministers of BiH. But I won't talk about it today. I would like to say that it is not good that we have continued to have a crisis within the BiH Council of Ministers, which is why very often it cannot deal with the work that the BiH Constitution has set. I recall, it was not that far away when the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers resigned, so we discussed for months what would be and what would not be and eventually withdrew 69 of the Council of Ministers' resignations, and that, meanwhile, from the time he resigned until the deadline when he resigned nothing fundamentally changed. Then we had an episode almost five months with the SDA security minister, with Mr Sadović, and we know very well how it all went. Here we are now opening a new episode with the Minister of the Party for BiH, not to mention some additional issues such as the withdrawal of the PDP from the Council of Ministers, changes within the HDZ 1990s, etc. As far as the SDP is concerned, we would like to say very clearly that we will not participate in the creation of false, artificial crises and attempt to destabilise state authorities without any willingness to make serious and radical changes to the work of the Council of Ministers, access to work, behaviour, simply without changing the political concept. We in the SDP, here for these underage four years, have several times publicly sought here in Parliament the replacement of individual ministers and it is no secret that we have sought, among other things, and the replacement of the Minister of Human Rights. At the time, however, the chairman of the Council of Ministers here, there are stenograms, always talking about the SDP proposal that it cannot replace or initiate this procedure for the replacement of any minister, as its powers are small, as it does not have that capacity, etc. That is why the question arises as to what changed in the meantime, and here is the Council of Ministers chairman now, but now at the end of the term of office, there is still the possibility of starting certain shifts. What was that morning and what was that afternoon? It would be good if we had today's chairman of the Council of Ministers to tell us. So, in the fourth year of office, I personally think that by political tweezers to draw out one minister at a time and discuss each other individually about any minister, I don't think we're going to have the right effect. Instead, it would be good if we could agree today, and there is no reason not to agree to try all together in a comprehensive, objective and reasoned way to look at the work of the Council of Ministers as a whole. I recall, the chairman of the Council of Ministers said, among other things, that ministers and deputy ministers must be team players. Also, the chairman of the Council of Ministers said in his exposé that, I quote, "I am responsible for the government's action." With that in mind, given the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, which also states in Article 163 (1) on the obligation of the Council of Ministers to provide us with a report on our work, I suggest that today we adopt a concrete conclusion as a House of Representatives and that we, as far as possible, direct the story in one direction where we will get a truly comprehensive and complete picture of all ministries. The proposal for a conclusion reads: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers no later than 30 days to deliver the abovementioned home report on the work of the Council of Ministers in the current part of this term from January 2007 to January 2010, with a specific reference to: - the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers for the extremely low level of implementation of planned annual programmes and plans under the ministries, 70 - the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers for Inefficient Work of the Council of Ministers, - the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers for Late BiH in the process of realising the visa liberalisation commitment, - the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers for the lack of a precise action plan for meeting the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and - the responsibility of the Council of Ministers of BiH for the implementation of more than one hundred non-imple conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So, I propose to my colleagues, and here's the conclusion I immediately deliver to the chairman, to adopt this conclusion and to receive in the next 30 days... a quality report from the Council of Ministers, to open one debate, I repeat, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and then to fully consider this issue and to bring certain courts and about the Ministry of Human Rights, but also about the work of other ministries in accordance with that teamwork that he was telling us about and the chairman of the Council of Ministers himself when he began his term here, that is, when we chose him, or when you chose him over three years ago. So I deliver this conclusion in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31178	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31179	Well, I don't know if it's any closer to a replica or a business intervention in terms of discussing two of my colleagues' predecessors. Namely, here's my attention that we're discussing points 4 and 5. Point 4 is the decision of the Chair of the Council of Ministers to replace the Minister for Human Rights and Refugees and point 5. Information from the Council of Ministers on the reasons for the delay in ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, not the report on the work of the Council of Ministers or information on the work of the Council of Ministers, etc. When that happens on the agenda, we will be very happy to participate in the discussion and make a contribution. Since I answered, I'm going to take the opportunity to say the position of the SDA Representatives Club on this point 4. Namely, by reading the Council of Ministers' decision to replace Minister Dr Halilović, we also received accompanying documentation showing that there is no minimum responsibility for late ratification of this UN Convention. If the chairman of the Council of Ministers had delivered a decision on his own shift, they would have probably supported the armed forces, as it is obvious that there is much greater responsibility for the delay in ratification of the UN Convention. Or,... that the reasoning of the Change Decision was based on some other reasons, we as the Club would probably seriously consider it and perhaps even support the Change Decision. But since these elements do not stand in reason, we will not be able to support such a single decision today. That's the first reason. And the second reason is that we have not gained confidence in the Council of Ministers' chairmanship. If you remember, the decision to appoint a new minister, we've been waiting here in House 71 for about three months, maybe more. We are therefore not sure that the new minister will be given until the end of the term of office of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the SDA will not be able to support this decision today on the replacement of Mr Halilović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31180	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31181	Dear colleagues and colleagues, you see, when you have a position like this, you don't need an opposition. Namely, a position is enough for itself. And yet, when you have such an opposition, then you will be a long and peaceful position. It is perfectly natural for the opposition to respond as badly as possible to the situation, not in society, but in position, which is a poorer relationship in position. And if that's the case, then I don't understand the opposition colleagues who spoke before me, which is why they won't support this decision by the chairman. I understand, of course, that he will not support the BiH Party. It would be good if, instead of the explanation of my colleague Azra, the minister had said it all. That he lined up those dates and made it quite clear and loud here what was happening in this period from the moment he was accused of being chaired by the Council of Ministers that he had not responded, that is, from the moment he could react to the moment he reacted. You see, when I read this decision, or the argument, or the reasons for this decision, I must say that when a sentence like this is written, then... it should be very serious, if we were to treat ministers in a way that respects their work results, not their ethnicity. And here, no one can convince me today that we are not acting like this today. Unfortunately, these discussions so far are going that way. You see, the chairman believes that the minister had three months to do some work, and he didn't do it, and then when he did to the other ministry, it took a month and a half to do something he might have done in seven days. I wonder why the chairman didn't propose another shift minister here, Mr. Alkalaj, who's been late for another month and a half on this. Of course, that would be a blow to the BiH Party. I am more than sure that we should not have ministers, because the BiH Party cannot be driven out of power by anyone, let alone Nikola Špirić, so it is simply not possible to confirm such a decision, I repeat, for a number of reasons. I resent Mr Špirić for proposing this decision to replace Minister Halilović precisely because, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, he was obliged to know that this decision would not be supported by Parliament and that it would turn into a political game and that it would only worsen the obviously bad situation within the Council of Ministers, not to say, bad relations between the minister and the chairman because I do not know what relations between the minister and the chairman are, but if they were good after this they will be bad, and in fact they will not change anything. Today, by discussing the responsibility for non-signature, or untimely resolution of an act, we should now come to a situation that has forced us to discuss this today, which is the last session. It's that situation where we were practically blackmailed here, whether right or wrong, that was decided by those who were blackmailing us, they thought rightly they needed us here, I guess the easiest thing to do is blackmail us. And if we take this into consideration, then it's not clear to me how it's possible for us to be so easy, all of us sitting here forgive this situation that we've found ourselves in, not thinking of anyone in particular, because it's obvious that here we can't determine who's responsible, because what one thinks is responsible, others don't feel responsible. What others think are the first ones they don't think, so today we're not in a situation to determine who's responsible for the delay, and in the end we're going to come to a conclusion that there's no delay, but that all of this has been going on as normal and normal during as everything else is going on, but those people out there have a little bit of a distraction that what's common isn't always the usual and it shouldn't always be the usual. That is why I think that today is more of a defamation, a new defamation of Parliament completely unnecessary, a new defamation of the Council of Ministers quite unnecessary. Of course, as someone who is from the opposition, I will support the worst situation in the Council of Ministers, and only for that reason will I vote, so for this decision proposed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31182	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31183	The president of our club talked about our argument, about our seeing this decision by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but because of the seriousness of the overall situation, at least that's how we see it in the BiH Party, I need a few more words to say. The BiH party has run for its best in the Council of Ministers, I believe other parties have done so. So, Professor Dr. Safet Halilović is a serious man and committed to the job. The hasty decision, our colleague Halilović also called it, so in his first comment he was very polite and abstentionally saying it was a misunderstanding and a hasty decision. So, the hasty decision of the chairman of the Council of Ministers without investing... and this all-out date you're talking about, I call on each of you to review these 50 pages of material and try to understand the ratification procedure, understand where it could have been faster, where it could have been slower, but such a decision has led the Party to BiH, primarily Professor Halilović, into a very unpleasant situation. So, this is not for us soap opera, Mr. Dolić, this is for us a very ugly and unpleasant and unfair situation caused by this hasty decision, where one serious man has been brought into this situation and some people are calling for Halilović to explain some procedures to us, etc., as if all of you don't know and all of us sitting here how these ratifications lead, who runs them, etc. We continue to argue that ratification is a technical issue from the point of view that commitment contracts, the country's commitment has already been made and signed before. So this is about a kind of confirmation of previously shown preparedness and will to solve some issues. The presence of these people here in Parliament, for which the Party for BiH has also been accused, has hurt us greatly. We don't really do things like that, manipulating people in distress 73, etc. It was not only caused by ratification, or ratification at all, it was not caused, they sought ratification as a tool to have... a ratified document and then to seek state laws, the unification of all people with disabilities in the country, the 'workability assessment' at the level of the state and a series of state solutions which obviously and certainly will not be understood here because it is exclusive entity jurisdiction. All this has been said and in dialogue and Mr Halilović has tried dozens of times to explain it to people, explain it, etc. We've been checking dates for days, the minister's been conducting investigations at the Ministry, etc. So we are really at the point that this decision by the Council of Ministers has really been hasty and unnecessary and based on arguments that do not have the strength or need for such an act. By doing, to put it that way, checking the whole situation, so we in the party took this very seriously as an insult to all of us who work there... We've obtained documentation to determine a series of things that deserve another kind of discussion. You see, so when it comes to entity jurisdiction, the state needs to get an opinion. The RS is sending consent. The Law on the conclusion of international contracts therefore speaks of the opinion as it is exclusively the jurisdiction of the State when it comes to the conclusion of international contracts. But when it comes to the powers that are the subject of the entity, then opinions are obtained. However, we see in the cases of documents, because the government of the RS is sitting and saying we agree with the state, but that is another question, but this is a question for the Office of Law to see what needs to be in the case: either opinion or consent. This is how we have an opinion or consent. This is how we feel about the Federation and the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So the Council of Ministers' Legislative Office failed to harmonise the matter and to bring the matter into line with the Law on the conclusion of international contracts. Of course, at this point I and I understand that the opposition has a need in times like this and that it deals with beekeeping and that it says that no one can drive us out of power, I really, really, at this moment that is serious to us, I have no intention of polluting with such things, but it's not fair.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31184	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31185	We can discuss it now, both of us. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in every country shift minister is a serious matter. The change of ministers by the head of government, the Council of Ministers, however you will, and the debate about it in Parliament is a very serious matter and I read the whole thing and seeing and knowing what was happening about it and what was inside of it, knowing that the change of the minister in each country is a very serious matter, on the other hand, I must say that I feel very sad and unhappy about such a request and such a situation at all I have to discuss this topic in the BiH Parliament. I want to say that this is all very expensive from the beginning and with various calculations planned and delivered here to Parliament, because if this is an honest intention and if 74 is true that the minister should be replaced because of the failures mentioned here, and also that we can also talk about, then I think that every minister in the Council of Ministers, every minister in the entity government or in any other government, cantonal government, and here we can extend it to Parliament, deserves to be removed. I am unhappy that the situation in the Bosnian-Herzegovina state and the Bosnian-Herzegovina society is so. We lack responsibility, we need more responsibility, and that is one particular question that we all need to discuss together, but I am so convinced that one unfortunate situation in this case has been used to entertain Parliament and that Parliament is here, although every minute should be precious in these things. If there wasn't a protest of the disabled, we wouldn't be in this situation today, I'm sure, so we wouldn't. So if there were no protests against the disabled, we wouldn't be in this situation at all today, no one would remember this, no one would move, the procedure would probably go from the Council of Ministers and more... from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so, according to the Council of Ministers, further towards Parliament for about a month, we would have ended this ratification and this wouldn't be a problem at all. And when the problem has already happened, and when the disabled have warned about this, instead of doing what needs to be done, here's what's done, then the oil is poured on the fire, I can't understand it any other way, and then trying to make another problem. That's why I think it's wrong, that motivation actually for a shift I don't have, I can't dig through the head of the Council of Ministers and I can never know exactly what he's done, but all the facts, all the circumstances, because you know what someone thinks from what he's doing, what he's doing, right, what his imagination is, you see from what he's practically doing, you see from what he's doing, what he's doing, what he's doing, what he's doing, what he's doing, what he's doing. From all of this I see that the motivation for a shift is not really for responsibility but for something else – that the matter is problematicd. Is this what Mr. Mehmedović was talking about, is it something else, so I don't know, but in any case it is that we have fun, that things get complicated, that's what it seems, about this kind of serious thing, because I repeat, the Minister's shift is a very serious thing in every country and in every society, and we here in the BiH Parliament are having fun. And if it were really to determine responsibility, then here responsibility could be determined on the side of the crowd. Let's say, in May, the Ministry is launching activities and writing a letter to entity governments. From one government of 16. 7. The opinion comes, and from the second comes the agreement Mr Belkić spoke of, and that is also in itself a difference, but only in the 12th month. Well, it's longer than May to 12th of 2008 than it was 29. Seven or one. 8. when Minister Halilović signed it in New York by 22.10 when the court interpreter delivered it to the ministry. That's longer. There's more responsibility then there. Why don't we talk about it? All of this points to the conclusion that it's very, very unserious and I'm not just not going to support this, because this isn't enough not to support it, this is where we have to vote against this, vote against this. Because if you say it's just not supported, then it's something that can be held back, right, that's support for this whole thing. It is necessary to vote against this and the SDA Club will vote against this, I hope that the majority of Parliament will, too. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31186	The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31187	Thank you, colleagues and fellow MPs. It's obviously from the discussion we've heard and this information we have before us that there's a responsibility. There is also a responsibility for the way we adopted the Convention in this House and something called pressure work and something called that never happens to you again, and therefore we need to clarify the situation. The only question is whether or not the right person and the person responsible for this is appointed and whether adequate punishment has been given by looking for a shift. I think they have at least two culprits. That he's guilty at the Foreign Ministry and that he's guilty at the Department of Human Rights and Refugees. At the same time, I will not compromise on whether the RS government is guilty, because it is not our jurisdiction, and we here need to discuss what we can determine responsibility for and give our opinion on it. Let the NS and the disabled go before the RS government if they think it's her fault for the Convention. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs at least (for in the Information we received at point 12, where the Council of Ministers also found it to be only 3. The 12th delivery of this UN Convention is the culprit for not speeding it up. And that's not the first time. We will, and I'm sorry we didn't win even though we're according to the conclusion that we adopted the 7th. 12. This is where we should get information on why the other conventions are late. Apparently, the Foreign Office has been guilty since before, so here we are. At the same time, at the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, I will remind you that, here, we can go from the freshest 14. Ten. - Reverend Vesna Šain asked what happened to the UN Convention, that I was 3. 12. In 2008, he also asked what happened to the UN Convention, that it was 3. The 12th honourable MP Lijanović asked what was wrong with the UN Convention, we have not received any answers to three parliamentary questions. At the same time, because I think this is a serious issue, I will not vote for the minister's shift. I won't vote because he didn't accept my proposal to come here and chair the Council of Ministers to hear the other side. And I will not vote because it is not a practice in this House to change ministers because they do not answer parliamentary questions. When it's a practice in this house, I'll also vote for the minister's responsibility. As long as we parliamentarians allow the Council of Ministers to be treated this way to Parliament, we do not have the right to seek their shift on this basis alone. That's why I won't vote for my shift. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31188	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, here, I will present myself, so according to the schedule of these two points, I will begin by reading one paragraph of one of the agendas that we have today 23rd, or the last 'Give consent to ratification of the Convention'. We recall that at its 99th session, held on 18 May 2001, the BiH Presidency decided to adopt the Stockholm Convention on the existence of organic 76 contaminants and authorised Svetozar Mihajlović, Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications, to sign the 2001 Convention, and today we have it on the agenda. The second and today on the agenda of the Convention that we have for ratification and completion of the procedure (and you know Mr. Chairman Živković asked that question as well as I and some other MPs) is related to the Agreement on Temporary Import or so on. ATA Karnet, May 2009; The Presidency has completed the procedure for the Convention, it is December, we have it now, and it is very important for our artists, for businessmen, for people who need to use the rights of the Convention. It shows that so far almost impossible was it to apply this principle that... simple governments could not be in place, not a day, no minister. The next thing I want to remind us all is that we had a chance a few months ago to discuss the Law on the conclusion of international contracts... it is clear what it is. So we've been establishing procedures here and we've actually seen through the debates and in this commission we've seen that there's an unwarranted length of procedure in ratification of international contracts. Unfortunately, most of the RS MPs' votes have been knocked down and we have today the 2000 law that defines how international agreements are signed, international contracts are concluded. That's one of the reasons I see that this is one of the main reasons why we and this 2001 agreement are waiting and many agreements are waiting at least six months for ratification. What I still want to mention here in my presentation is that... I would really like to be an MP when we discussed the Convention on the Rights of Persons if we could have received information from the Council of Ministers. What does the UN Convention for BiH mean? What does it mean to make a commitment to the rights of disabled people? How much money is that? How many laws is that, how many regulations? What comes out of it and whose obligations are they? I've heard from one of the employees in this ministry that it's hundreds of millions of marks. That many countries are targeted at inability to realise the possibility, means it's judicial to open the process, means that the first things solve it within the state and then go into these procedures. We didn't get any information on that. We worked under pressure and the way it was adopted and we absolutely didn't get the data on how much it costs BiH, what it is about what entity to do, what it is obligation BiH to do and how much money it is. And we heard from the following that this is an unsettled situation in BiH in terms of disabled people: that we have in RS 7,000, in the Federation 100 and some thousand people with disabilities, that 400 marks of separation in the Federation, 40 marks in RS, which shows that this is a state that has been completely unsettled and that it was necessary to access seriously this UN Convention and those obligations that BiH assumes from that UN Convention. In that sense, I do not see this move so unilaterally, so short-sightedly, that it was done for the good or functioning of the Council of Ministers or the Parliamentary Assembly, nor BiH institutions, and it is not for the good of neither the people nor BiH as a whole, and in that sense, the SDA Club said its position, and here I also had the need to supplement these things as an MP which I consider useful and needed to be presented. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31189	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Someone said that they resented the chairmanial council of ministers for making such a decision, so I don't blame him because I know that this is semi-cut, if perhaps too hard to say cut out, because Mr Špirić knew that this decision to replace Minister Halilović would not get a majority in Parliament and, of course, he decided to write it again. And the reason is next. Because he, gentlemen dear, is part of the responsibility for the ineffectiveness of the Council of Ministers for which you have called him out of position more than we have asked him more questions than we have at the time of the session dedicated to asking questions to the Council of Ministers, he has transferred part of the responsibility from the Council of Ministers to this home. Sometimes he will tell you - I suggested that you replace this minister and the Council of Ministers because of this he could not work. You didn't want it, gentlemen. You're sharing responsibility with us. Now, that is the responsibility, that is, the weight of all that has been passed on to Parliament. It was important here or it was important for us to come into a position to be appointed, and it's known to everyone that it's so difficult, and it's not exactly that choice or appointment to carry out easily here, but here's how most of the arrangements are made and done at the beginning of the term of office. And it is also known that there is no god, or only God can seem to end a shift if he does not do his intended work as he should. It is impossible to do so in these circumstances with such a majority in this congregation, and it is known to everyone. It is only possible to execute if the party does not stand behind someone like the case of Minister of Security Tarik Sadović. It was then possible to replace someone from the Council of Ministers, otherwise it is not possible. So from this, it's obvious that all of this is a particular one, let's say... The Council of Ministers removes responsibility for this parliament. If he needs it sometimes and sometimes, we will probably remember these words of mine, so they will be current because someone from the Council of Ministers will say that we too are responsible for their ineffectiveness when we criticise them because here we have not supported any proposals from the Council of Ministers, etc., so I think there is no need to discuss this much. Someone there's a small collateral damage just because his name is mentioned in all of this, and it's all that's left of the thing that's not going to move from the point where it was, and I'm sure, regardless of some who will vote for this decision, that it won't get the green light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31191	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31192	I thank you, Mr. President. 78 Ladies and gentlemen, very short. So we in HDZ 1990 won't support this decision for three reasons. First, we respect the right of the president and his willingness to practice responsibility in the Council of Ministers. In principle, we support this, but we believe that in order to practice this kind of responsibility, one full assessment of the work of the Council of Ministers that we should have received from the Presidents of the Council should be done and that is why we voted today to do so when he is there to explain it. Entering such a partial and selective approach, I think, would open the Pandora's box, especially by calling here for reasons to adopt where it is said that the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees in the Council of Ministers is his dissuasive attitude towards work, etc. I have several examples of impeccableness within the Council of Ministers who have had long-term implications. One of them is the unnamed chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Security in accordance with the law which is the legal obligation of the chairman, and I think, if someone wants to practice responsibility from their domain of responsibility, they should start from themselves and then on, and that is why we need a serious and complete debate. But that doesn't mean I'm amnesting anyone's unhappiness or irresponsibility, but we need a really serious background and report on that. And I think that we should have waited until the chairman of the Council of Ministers, heard him, given the opportunity to explain the overall relations in the Council of Ministers in accordance with the responsibility that the Council of Ministers took over, and then to enter into responsibility, because we still trusted that Council of Ministers and we have this kind of responsibility for the overall functioning of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31193	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31194	The Honorable Chairman, I highly respect your opinion, is what Mr. Raguž used to say. But, Mr. Raguž, what better thing would it be if he were present today as chairman of the Council of Ministers? What would he explain? What would you explain? He wrote what he meant. There's only one real reason. That he wrote or said to someone I, gentlemen, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, but it's countless times and said so that it doesn't turn out that I'm defending him or something because I can't change anyone or set a point. And if I hadn't turned out to be defending Mr. Špirić, so someone passed on to him, he said, "Slavuj was on your side, so the others passed on to him, yeah, the Slavuj voted not to be a shifting minister, so I went into conflict with this whole order, and I won't. I will do the same as the chairman, not that I don't have my own opinion, publicly say that I will not support Minister Halilović's shift because, supported by me, he will not be removed, well, then it is better that I do not support it so that this order greets me and Minister Halilović that he has nothing against me, will not be removed, it is not possible. And that is, is not responsible whether, Mr. Raguž, you're absolutely right and we don't need any explanation. I welcome this order.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31195	Replica, Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31196	Mr. Slavuj, this order will not be this order no matter how you vote to come to that position as you define it, surely. This order will not come in that position as you have defined it, however you vote, because this is not the case, as you and we know well, about Mr Halilović or what is explained here. We know that well.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31197	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31198	Here's Mr. Jovicic's replica and it shows that I was just looking right. He will not support not being angry with fellow MPs in this order, regardless of what might be necessary to support him because of his work or worklessness or vice versa. I'd be glad if I heard someone here say, "I won't support him because I think he was doing the right thing or I'm gonna support this decision because he was doing the wrong thing." And here we won't support someone not to mind, and that's what I just said was all directed. And secondly, what are you going to do, Mr. Jovičić, now that Nikola resents you? Here's your estimate, he's alone, here's seven-eight, so you appreciate what's better. So, let's just let one get in the way of this seven-eight, okay? I don't know, I'd better not say anything else. Well, you can tell that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31199	Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31200	The SNSD MPs' club will vote for the replacement of Minister Halilović. I thank my colleague Azra for telling Mr. Jovičić, no matter how he voted, that they would think the same thing about you. So, the attempt on this communication failed to fix it. We here, obviously, when we add these discussions, having in mind and relations in the Council of Ministers, they clearly point to deep differences between us and they are now going by another principle that has far-reaching consequences, and that is now quite clear. But I'm going back to another situation, that when we discussed the Convention, then there was pressure on the SNSD Club, because everyone at the time claimed that someone had agreed on this. And here I am now saying that we have made a mistake not binding responsibility for the ratification of the Convention. Now a lot of you are quiet here and now, normally, like when you get off the field, if I were. So then the situation was where everyone here was absolutely convinced that someone was responsible. Well, today everyone has their reasons for getting away with why no one is. We only had to bind the ratification of the Convention, 80 because those who brought the disabled were going with the intention of replacing Mr Halilović and doing him harm. And that's a fact. And somebody thinks about that scenario, I don't know some kind of manipulation, I know what it was. But how is it possible that, as in the mass of cases, suddenly in a few days, responsibility disappeared? She's found responsibility, I'm told directly, let's just do it. Many then asked by the halls what it would be like, how it would be, like this, who did it, who did it, who put it in this situation. People have been there for a few days. They weren't here for two hours. A situation was created that this parliament saved. But is it possible now to align this way with the story that really no one is responsible and that we will send a message further that in such situations, or another will push out responsibility in a different way. I didn't even say who. But if you think it's fair to go back to that situation to say today that no one is really responsible, and we haven't potentiated the question today because it's not on the agenda what was happening inside Parliament and what are the consequences of the arrival of disabled people and their departure and their logistics. We opened it today, and I can see there's no will, because then some of them got over this situation, and now they don't remember these events anymore, and they're not in that movie anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31201	Thank you. Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, Mr. Okolić, I know you're the opposition, I support it, so that you can replace every day of every minister. And that's where you're right. But you know what the point was in what I said was impossible, no matter what we're doing in the parliamentary majority, that we're voting to replace the minister from the second political party that makes up that parliamentary majority. Here's to not speaking by ethnicity, I guess that's what's important sometimes. It's sad that we're ashamed to tell who we are and who we are and who we belong to. So, only that was the reason and, I repeat, no minister can ever be removed, can on one condition if his party withdraws him, just that, and of course we as parliamentary majority will support the party's proposal. In this case, when his party defends, for a reason and for no reason, it is seen, his minister and says he is successful, what is the way for all of us who are dissatisfied, to say the minister's work to vote. What do we get? We're not getting anything. And by the way, I'm sorry, gentlemen, that you're sitting in this row, because I really don't want to have any conflicts with anyone, especially you. It wasn't courting you. I don't touch anyone, you see. But, Mr. Okolić, one more thing, don't insinuate what Mr. Špirić will tell me, what will he say to me, you listen to what I say. And Mr. Špirić, I said at the beginning, I don't defend him and he knows that this is not possible in this way or he has powers, and he's multiple times behind the pay phone, we listened to him, said I don't have the office of Prime Minister as some other in the states so I can take over the minister now. That's what he was saying. And that's clear to all of us. But 81 is proud of one thing that is not subject to today's debate, which you, Mr. Okolić, would say, from the opposition would be replaced by every minister, and thanks to Bog, you have no objections to any minister coming from the SNSD, at least they're doing well, but you would take advantage of that opportunity today, so here I am defending this minister, so here I see you have no objections to the Minister of the HDZ 1990s, my colleague and formerly our colleague here, but you will find one, and you would now take advantage of that opportunity in your account with the SNSD, as we ask for a changed minister, and here today is the division at the club so Mr. Živković will not vote for the shift, so I won't, and as we do something to break up. On the contrary, we just realized that it's not possible to replace the minister and we're not going to take part in it, and that you remember, so there's no division, don't worry about us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31203	Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31204	I must conclude, indeed, that I am quite surprised at the good part of the discussion of MPs representing the parliamentary majority at the state level. Things could be heard today in the context of this debate, since this is a hasty decision, that this is an insult to the country, etc., etc. However, it would be fair to say, first of all, that the only insult to this country is the fact that we have ministries in the Council of Ministers that realize 20% or 30% of their annual work programme, the only insult is the liberalisation of the visa regime where BiH stands, and BiH citizens suffer for it, and the only insult to this country is the state of play in this country. The vast majority, however, have found in the debate... and from the opposition outside the position that there are clearly problems in the work of the Council of Ministers, that there are failures, that there is both unemployment and irresponsibility. The only exit solution, it shows at the end of almost this debate, is in fact this proposal that we have proposed, which is that today we are not making any partial conclusions but to get a full report on the work of the Council of Ministers and to take a position on that basis. In the event that we do not accept the proposal to receive such a report from the Council of Ministers, which I do not prejudge, positive or negative, they will draw it up and deliver it to Parliament, in this case from today to the end of the term of office, not at all on the people of the Council of Ministers but on MPs from ruling parties who will then enable people in the Council of Ministers and not to realise their plans, but even not to submit reports to the BiH Parliament. In order not to get into that position, the only exit solution is to actually accept this conclusion to get a report from the Council of Ministers which they will put together and provide us with full information based on which we will then adopt a certain position as the highest legislative body in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31205	Thank you. Replica 2nd, Mirko Okolić. Here you go. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31206	Oh, I knew, Mr. Jovičić, that this... would try to defend it somehow, but I didn't claim at all that you were divided and... so that's your claim, based on which I don't know. But I claimed, and you yourself confirmed it through your discussion, that this was all arranged, carved, embezzled. You have repeated several times that Mr. Špirić also knew that he could not make the shift, and he wrote this decision. So he knew he didn't need to be changed like if his party supported him, etc., etc. I'm not going to do anything you said at all. But I personally get the impression that a lot of citizens will get the impression that this... how we're going to get out of this situation, a little bit of the disabled in our Parliament, has made a mess of it, etc. We've got to get past it somehow. Now, listen, I'm going to suggest there that you, Mr. Minister, be relieved, you can't be replaced of course in this kind of power relationship, and I'll even tell those of your own not to support that shift, or even a little bit to say publicly that you don't need to change, etc. If that's not the direction, then I don't know what this story is, what it looks like, etc. You can see that's the direction, it's transparent what it is, and that's all I was saying, I wasn't talking about your break-up. On the contrary, you've probably agreed that... I don't mind, so you need the club and you need to be unique, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31207	Thank you. Discussion, Honourable Ambassador Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31208	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow representatives, respected guests, the HDZ BiH Club will not support this decision by the Council of Ministers for several reasons, and above all for the reason we hold that this decision is hasty, under-arranged and at this point, nine months to the next election, absolutely unnecessary and incomplete. Today's debate, if nothing else, is that it is not good that we recently failed in the parliamentary procedure 'Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the procedure for the conclusion and accession of international agreements and conventions'. Because these amendments and amendments have been added in a much clearer and more precise way to set deadlines for all competent institutions participating in the process from the moment of decision-making by the Presidency to join a specific international agreement until the moment of ratification. Unfortunately, the law has fallen so, if nothing else, this debate may serve the Council of Ministers or one of us MPs to put the law back into practice, which would in a much clearer way specify the obligations and deadlines of individual institutions. We don't want to defend someone for whom responsibility can be determined, but the fact that... in these two acts, in which we have united the debate, the responsibility is very charred, that is, the fact that more subjects can share that responsibility. Someone has already found that the most time has been spent until the moment of obtaining a positive opinion or consent from entities, from the Federation for two months, and since the RS for seven months, then also stalled in the locally appointed Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, and then a stalemate at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, etc. But the facts say something else, that most, unfortunately, conventions and agreements, the vast majority of them, 83 of their procedure from decision-making to ratification, lasts a lot longer than it took time for this convention. This is not good, although there are probably objective reasons with all the subjective weaknesses that exist. Perhaps that is another reason to really consider quality changes and additions of laws that specify this process and this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31209	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We move to point 6, I'd say point 7, if you agree, with the fact that the demands are still at stake today we're only discussing the requirements: Ad. Six. The request of MP Azra Hadžiahmetović to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Prosecutor's Office of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-5-119/09 of 15. 12. 2009 and Ad. Seven. MP Azra Hadžiahmetović's request to discuss the draft law amending the BiH Court of Justice by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-5-118/09 of 15. 12. 2009 Like I said, we're discussing demands. I'm opening a discussion, please. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31211	I thank you, Chairman. So, even when we talked, we discussed the agenda, we touched a lot of things on these issues. So, the reason for the emergency procedure... The SBiH Club wrote because we all know it, so at the end of this year, 31. 12. In 2009, the transitional five-year term of office of international judges still working in cases assigned to the Special Department for Organized Crime, Economic Crime and Corruption, both in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and in the BiH Court of Justice, stands out. So, the High Representative extended his mandate to judges working in the Department of War Crimes, so here we propose that new members be introduced to extend such a term and to these judges who work, to international judges working in cases in the Department of Organized Crime, Economic Crime and Corruption. 84 So, I repeat, the reason for the emergency procedure is simply because in ten to fifteen days, the deadline for these judges expires and we propose an extension of that deadline and therefore we ask and propose that these laws be considered by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31212	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31213	Well, here I am not going to be long, although I deliberately commented on the answer to the asked question to draw attention to the situation, among other things, and to the institutions to which the proposed laws apply. In the meantime, another argument, in addition to what was presented in the explanation, would also tie to BiH's position on corruption and the need to really face the problem of BiH in a more serious way with good institutional capacity. So, we've mostly focused on amending this law... to the Department of Organized Crime and Corruption for reasons that have already been mentioned. I don't think there's any need to further explain what's already stated in the explanation. I can only express hope that colleagues and colleagues in this House will have enough hearing for this issue and for the laws that are in the process.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31214	Thank you. The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31215	In line with what I was saying when we discussed the agenda, I believe that this request was not in line with the Rules of Procedure, I believe that it would be legally wrong for this Parliament if it voted on this request and I believe that we should have previously put the High Representative's decision on the vote and that after the publication in the "Official Messenger" we could act amendedly on this law. So I'm sure I'll vote against this request, but I wanted to warn the House once again about the danger that lurks in these demands. Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31216	In no way would we want this to remain uncleared, or to have a dilemma that we were doing something that was not in accordance with the law or with the Rules of Procedure. So, the SBiH, or club president on behalf of the club Azra Hadžiahmetović, had, before this decision was taken by the High Representative, once again, filed an emergency procedure request, 85 intervened in a way that, in full capacity, judges and prosecutors and in one and other departments, extended the mandate to 31. 12. In 2012, not knowing what was going to happen. So, in the meantime, the High Representative made the decision he made, and we studied it very carefully, and based on that, applied for an emergency procedure for amending and supplementing these two laws. The contents of our intervention, firstly, relate to the basic law on both the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office and refers to the introduction of new members – not to members who have been changed, but to the introduction of new members in 19a. And 24th. And therefore, we are in confidence (of course, it is not my intention that Mr. Živković and I are having a controversy here), but a kind of logic convinces me that we are not intervened on what the High Representative was doing, but intervened on members, intervened in a way that adds new members to the existing law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31217	Correction of false allegations, chairman of Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31218	Thank you. Namely, I am not sure how we interpret the meaning of amending and supplementing the law and whether if an article is being treated 19th and if it is being supplemented it is considered to be touching that member, but I am sure that in Article 2, the entry into force of the proposal that we have received from the honourable Member Azra Hadžiahmetović is touched directly by Article 2, which the High Representative has imposed. And it certainly violates the usual practice in this home that previous decisions by the High Representative must be confirmed here, that they are published in the "Official Messenger" and that these members can be changed afterwards. Therefore, it is behind the fact that this is not the procedural office and that the decision of the High Representative to vote should first be put in place. Thank you. Dear MP, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31219	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear how these two points of the agenda will end today. We can speak freely at this time, given the views expressed or expressed, that these laws will not be passed. I wish it wasn't like that, I'd like these laws to be passed, but what's there. I didn't get up that much just to say this. So fully aware that these laws will not pass today, I want to be here in Parliament, and sometimes someone will read what has been said here in Parliament, what has been concluded, is that, in this regard, let me say one thing about the independence of the judiciary and about the relationship between judicial, legislative and executive authorities. I stand for the concept of complete independence of these three segments of government. We have an earlier tradition of strong executive power, so we can say that we also have a tradition of very strong legislative authorities, but we do not have in BiH a tradition of independent, independent and in that segment of strong judicial authority. In BiH, we are building this system and in order to build this system of insurance for an independent, professional and independent judiciary, among other things, we have included foreign judges in certain departments in the Court and 86 of BiH's Prosecutors, so that we can establish these principles in BiH in the most qualitative way and make them a practice in the conduct of BiH courts and prosecutors. For me, an independent judiciary is the justice system that is able to bring every single person living in this country to justice. I am not sure that today with such a system, and especially after these laws imposed by the High Representative, we have such a judiciary in BiH. And here it's not the issue of justice, it's the problem with people who feel they're above the law. We have people in BiH today who feel that they are above the law. And that's the most dangerous thing. This will come to an end at some time and those who are opposed to staying in the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, because it will inevitably, no matter how professional and capable our judges and prosecutors are, be affected by the principle of independence and independence of the judiciary. I fear this decision by the High Representative and by not adopting these laws today will not contribute to this negative phenomenon. I want BiH to have a built... system of responsibility, in which no one will be above the law, at any moment, at all times, it will have to comply with the orders, the decisions of prosecutors and courts, so an independent system of government, and not threaten to destroy the state if that happens. This is a dangerous thing that, at this point in BiH, unfortunately, neither the international community that is in charge of helping BiH establish a normal system takes care of. One day we'll pay the price of this; when? I don't know, but I'm sure we will. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31220	Just because I'm appreciated that you have an extraordinary desire to say this, even though it was beyond the agenda and we're discussing these demands, I let you speak and not interrupt. But now we have replicas. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31221	Replications to the chairman. So the proposal for this law and this decision of the High Representative differ, in the text section they differ. So, we are talking about this bill and this decision by the High Representative that one word is proposed differently in our proposal, it is different from the High Representative Decision. So, in general, this bill differs from this decision made by the High Representative. Article 2 is the same, but the whole proposal for a law is different from the decision of the High Representative. For these reasons, this thing was done by the Rules of Procedure. And there shouldn't be any dilemma.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31222	Just let me say that the problem is that it's acting on a member that the High Representative has imposed, nothing else. I'm not talking about the identity of the texts. Dear Ambassador Milica Marković, replica. Here you go. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My replica refers to the presentation of my colleague, Džaferović. It is an impression when he tells us this way about the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office that, as the people would say, you listen to a story that someone throws dust in your eyes and tries to make it ideal for you that the judicial system should be as one of the levers of government in one country, should be as he talks about it and how he imagines it and, of course, what he said is a dangerous thing if an individual rises above the justice system in one country! I think so, too, Mr. Džaferović, but I think it's a more dangerous thing and a thing that further degrades a country if you have a court called the court and the prosecution of a state, and it's so biased and so predetermined and instructed how to work and how to judge. It's a phenomenon that directly undermines the foundations of a state and if you have an even worse situation that this same court knows very well and these judges that are here and mentioned... such interventions on the law, if you have that judges know very well that there are three constituent peoples and in cases in which they judge and of those three people in cases that judge a nation at 1400, 1500 years in prison, and one of these people is sentenced to 60 years in prison. Then the logical question arises: What will this court and this prosecution ever do to one people who has been discriminated against, who has been accused that the Priory is guilty and that he is guilty of everything in this country? And how do you expect the representatives of that people to support such a law? So I think you should talk a little more balanced, or be real and objective when you talk about these things. Because don't think that what you're saying is that someone will blindly accept, that you'll convince someone even less with that story.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31224	Thank you. I warn you that the agenda item is the debate on this request and I ask you to stick to the agenda. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31225	Dear colleague Marković, I did not discuss that I would reassure you of your conviction, you have your conviction. I made it clear and precise why I got up and why I said what I said. And I will never fall into the trap that I am talking about the trial process in which you have fallen or burned, and the courts do not judge the nations, the courts judge the individuals who are accused, and the prosecutors investigate them and accuse them of certain crimes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31226	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31227	Thank you, Chairman. 88 I will say that I do not support the urgency procedure today, that is, by Article 127, and that is what we are now discussing. And the reason I don't support it I'm going to say in the next few words, I'm going to try to be brief. And I'm not going into the essence of the law at all, because it's not the subject of debate. Now it's not clear to me if, by 127, we adopt or we adopt this request to be in accordance with Article 127, this law, and then it says, let's adopt it. Then we have a law that was passed today, and we have a law imposed by the High Representative, which we need to confirm here in this House. Mr. Remzija Kadrić said that these two laws differ in a certain part and that's exactly that. And then what are we gonna have? We will have one law that has been imposed by the High Representative, and we will have those who have adopted, let's say, today at this session of amendments and additions to the Law by Article 127, which is not working with each other. Here Mr. Živković is right, and I think that by 127th or any other procedure, we can enter into an amendment and addition of these laws based on, or after confirming the decision of the High Representative of this House. If we don't, then we will have eventually when we adopt this law or these laws in force and the High Representative's decision, and we will have what we would possibly adopt today. There seems to be no need for such a haste, especially after publication of the High Representative's decision on amendments to this law, or these laws. And well, maybe it was SBiH's intention to do it before the High Representative forced it, and then he forced it, so that they wouldn't give up, let's say something right now, yes, it was before this, it was. He did impose, but here, hey, don't let our initiative fail, we'll still go into that initiative, I'll change it a little yesterday, like the day before the session, and the day after the announcement. So I think this is a pointless thing to go for 127 today. I don't support 127.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31228	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31229	I'm going to put my humble opinion on this very briefly. First of all, I think that the matter of procedure here is not really the most important, even though it is the topic right now. I want to talk about being this problem, that is, this question, so, again, I wouldn't talk about this second dimension, so procedural regularity or malfunction, even that's not so important to me. Here is actually being and what I want to say is that, so I think that the general state, i.e. the assessment of all those who deal with the assessment of organised crime and corruption in BiH, is such that BiH is in a very envious high place. This shows the latest Transparency International survey where they put us in 109th place, i.e. first in the region and only behind Russia throughout Europe, etc. So that's what we need to worry about. The current situation, which includes the work of foreign prosecutors and judges in this department, is also in force and this state that we have here today is, that is, the state, that is, the results are also in that state. I'm not going to say that they may be contributions and these people of strangers, no, I don't know how big they are, etc., but if and the big total result is weak and very small. And that's why I think we should stick to the adopted Anti-Corruption Strategy and 89 organised crime and see if it's good enough. If it is not good, first we should review it, if it is good, and we said it is, then we should stick to that strategy and really go into a decisive fight, a calculation with organised crime and corruption in BiH. And not only the BiH Court, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, but all the prosecutions and all the courts in BiH. I think that's the only way we're going to win the battle with this monster and this great evil. And I have already said once here in this building behind this pay phone or from this place that my view of corruption and crime in BiH has already improved to this extent that it is actually threatening to collapse the social system in BiH. So, with us, unfortunately, the tolerance is too big for corruption and crime, it's become quite normal for us, I don't know, that crime is happening and, worst of all, people see it, they're actively involved, but they're passive. So they see it, and no one is doing anything to, I don't know, help the authorities, the authorities, the prosecution and the investigation agencies, to help them investigate, prove and condemn the competent courts of this crime and corruption. So the problem is much broader and I would not in any way raise him to the question whether and to what extent foreigners in this department, or the departments of the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office, the problem is much wider, the problem is much more serious, and I think that we should also accept those solutions from this strategy and that we should work on them. And on the very requirement to adopt it or not to adopt it, I'm going to say mine, I'm going to repeat my humble opinion, I don't think the results will be great in the case of one or another solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31230	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić (we are discussing these demands), please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31231	I'll be very brief. I don't want to talk about the law. I want to talk about the procedure. I am interested in one thing - do we even have a legal service in Parliament that could give us an explanation of the possibility of putting this law into the voting system? Why am I saying that? I'll make myself clear. And I voted for this bill to come, so I was against the proposal that was to be taken down. It was my wish. However, as an MP, I must say that I am in a great dilemma because I know that all the laws imposed by the High Representative first had to be ratified here, so that we could change them. The bottom line is next. The BiH party did not violate the Rules of Procedure. She submitted her demands before the High Representative made his decision. It's a fundamental question, a new situation that would require legal resolution. And if we can get one such legal interpretation, but a relevant interpretation for us, we could get here very quickly to a certain solution. If there's a legal solution that means this procedure that we've talked about rules out, then I'm about this law to come into debate and agree with the procedure or not to agree. If he can't, then I think it's absurd to talk, because I wouldn't want to go into the controversy of what I'm talking about right now. If that's possible, I'd like to get an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31232	Thank you. 90 First Vice-President... And, first of all, the honourable Member of the Parliament of Remzija Kadrić. Here you go. Is that the other one? Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31233	Oh, this is just an explanation to Ambassador Bešlagić. selime, I said before, so we have the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the Law on the Court of BiH. The High Representative carried out his decision to intervene, i.e. amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. These interventions, the proposals to implement are also different from what the High Representative does, and for this reason is our request and our amendments are in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31234	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31235	He knows Mr. Remzi what you think, but he knows, he knows.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31236	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31237	Mr. Bešlagić, just a minute, please. Maybe I can help you with that. The extended college determines the agenda, in the College we had no consent, the House makes a decision. The home has made a decision and therefore no more legal services. If we had asked for the conclusion of the legal service, we would have gone to the previous question. Thus, it ended all the process we could have had. The Honorable First Vice-President, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31238	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, here we appear to be discussing a simple matter, only a request for procedure, but a request for a procedure is impossible to separate from the very essence of the law and from this dilemma, here someone will say legal, someone will say business, someone will say political-legal, I'm not sure what the real name is. We had a situation in which Commissioner Hadžiahmetović, in a business-planned procedure, submitted a proposal to amend the two laws, with requirements to be considered by a hasty procedure, which is absolutely in line with the Rules of Procedure. And then something happened which is usually a problem in BiH's overall functioning. Then the High Representative, the second legislative authority in this country, slipped into the Rules of Procedure like this, forgive me for the expression but slipped, and made this decision that nobody seems pleased with me now and it concerns the participation of foreign citizens in our judicial system. These strangers... we didn't bring them to judicial institutions, we need to know that. So they were brought by the Peace Implementation Council and High 91 representatives in BiH. Now this Peace Implementation Council, which I believe is giving to the High Representative, I don't believe that Mr. Incko makes such decisions on his own, no matter how much I like them or anyone else, means I believe that this is a decision by the Peace Implementation Council through which the Peace Implementation Council has clearly shown its commitment, no matter how much I or someone else was satisfied with that commitment and said that at this point, as far as we're concerned, we are prepared to... foreigners or, let's just say this, their citizens to be engaged to that extent and to that end. Now we can... the desire of the amended request is in conflict with that position of the Peace Implementation Council, that's what we have to say. I mean, regardless... I don't know if there are any conversations, arrangements beyond what I'm saying and what are my sort of logical insights. So I have no other knowledge. But when I logically interpret it, then this proposal is in conflict with the position of the Peace Implementation Council. I know that there was dilemma and as an argument, I remind you, because it's similar matter: we had one proposal from the Council of Ministers from this matter, one part was absolutely unsatisfactory, one absolutely against, one relatively, here, and I was then saying that, I think, that's something that's possible at this point. The proposal unfortunately went as it went through in the parliamentary procedure, but at that time the argument was used that unless foreign judges and prosecutors remain in BiH's judicial institutions, we will not be able to finance those domestic judges. It's not much mentioned then that we don't have competent ones, etc. but we won't be able to finance it. Today we heard... from the Minister of Finance's mouth that we don't have a problem with funding, so that argument is off. We heard, the distinguished representative asked me how many judges (it seems to me that only judges and not prosecutors) work both in courts and prosecutors, it seems to me, in BiH over 70 years old, that there are about five or six exceptions. I don't believe it's because we don't have qualified judges, so some have to work after 70. I think there are some other questions, but it's no longer a subject... to say so. So, we have one pillar of government in BiH that recently, recently, is very independent and independent of any institution in this country. It's a fact, no matter what anyone might like or not like, but it's facts. You had behind this speaker and the president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and the Attorney General, so just remember a little bit as they told you: we don't need to deliver any information to you. You can accept and not accept, you're not wondering, gentlemen, here. I know that. Read the laws and you'll see. So, we and if we wanted, me or any of you, to in any way influence the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office, we don't have that possibility, we don't have the laws that are in force in BiH, which some of the calls of this parliament have brought and I am absolutely satisfied with that fact. I have neither the desire nor the will to interfere in the work of these institutions and I want them to be responsible to the public of this country, to the citizens of this country and to the efficiency and ineffectiveness. Dear counterpart Jukić noted that we are on the steps of corruption and all the negatives in the world very highly positioned, i.e. by the degree of prevention of these negativity very low. We know that the reform of the judiciary takes quite a long time and we know that it is well out of the picture for a long time, beyond the influence of what citizens choose in the elections. I mean, we know that, and no matter how much we liked it, I liked it different. These two laws and if we were to adopt them today, according to me to a familiar schedule of work of the Parliamentary Assembly (again from the hall, I must say, I do not know 92 officially), but there is no way they will be considered in another home before the end of this year. So there's no way he can be considered. What fate will they experience...? And I must say that even the Proposer, I am convinced, very well known, and if here today he is considered both in one home and in another, what is the fate of this law. So we had a much more flexible solution that didn't get through. To be honest, I'm thinking now what's the motive, how do you really think these proposals go through? And is the intention really to accept these proposals or is it, let's say, an alibi of its own? I don't know in front of who, but here's what we've tried, because there's a very strange debate going on here. I am absolutely but for a lot, as I would say, more appropriate, here's to use that term, but now it's something beyond this topic, a judicial system at the level of the BiH state. So there's a lot of people out there, but it's for the constitutional change story, so I wouldn't be burdening myself right now. So, I am absolutely in favour of judicial reform, but we are today and these days, not only today, in a special atmosphere where if someone for the rest of the foreigners is in judicial institutions, then it's a great anti-corruption fighter, against all evils, etc. If Bog does not give it here in the same way to strengthen the capacity of these institutions with increased involvement of local minds, domestic people who know how to do it certainly well, then he is the protector of corruption and all negative evils. And we need to establish some principles. Do we trust ourselves? Do we even trust the institutions of this country that should assume their own obligations, carry out our responsibilities or, God Bog, someone's caricin' a little this morning and said let's go pick up a stranger in the Council of Ministers, so let's just let's just one stranger in the not knowing or how long it takes in Parliament, so let's... I mean, if that's what it's supposed to be, but be careful, we're coming into contradictions. It turns out we don't trust anything that's ours. So we promote one awareness of ourselves, very negative. I have to say very negative, and yet I say that this process of judicial reform being conducted, I will say, by my judgment, strictly, very unsuccessfully, and not a product of my own mind. You know, I mean, now, why is that? I'm not sure that when we mention it, we often love the cellars (this may not even be wise on my part to say) in the international community in the broadest sense, often everyone in his own way implies what he means by it, so I don't know if everyone is very well-intentioned towards us or towards BiH and that international community, in which we swear so much. You know, I've had meetings with different representatives of the international community and I've heard a lot of things. I didn't take much of it well-intentioned, so let's be a little more careful. I am in favour of us building much more trust with each other and trying to build ourselves in this country a credible institution that will provide us and all of our citizens with all the best things that we can wish for ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31239	Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetov, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31240	Thank you. The Honorable Member of the College, on several occasions during his discussion, called and asked what the proposer was, what the writer meant by this to say, is, should I cut short. Among other things, let's say that in your labs is this, is it that, and is mentioned, is it necessary to have an alibi for someone? 93 I will leave the answer to both of your questions to you – whether anyone needs an alibi when it comes to this. I fully agree with you that we need to strengthen our institutions, that we should trust ourselves. You on several occasions, among other things, mentioned that we trust ourselves and build trust, etc., I couldn't agree more. But I also know perfectly well the institutional capacitation of both institutions, especially at this time. Why I just stressed the situation regarding organised crime, the BiH ranking in both regional and international matters, in terms of corruption, etc. When I commented and answered my question: I wanted to draw attention precisely to the fact that our institutions are not capacitated to meet in this time the obligations that lie ahead of these institutions. Here, I fully agree with you that this is what domestic people should do, but until we get the training and we have local people, what in the meantime, because we are already number one on these blacklists – what in the meantime? Secondly, I really do have to do it now, and I have to rephrase your quotes. Mr. Belkić, can I just, since I'm speaking to Mr. Lozančić? I have to rephrase your quotes when you say these proposals are against the Peace Implementation Council's decisions. I mean why he requires a replica. The High Representative would not impose this decision if domestic institutions had done the expected job. And here's what's expected. I quote, so I do not say to my or any arguments: 'The High Representative of the EU for Foreign and Security Policy, Mr Solana, called on 23.7.2009', among other things, whether 'and explained that the presence and role played by international judges and prosecutors in the departments of war crimes and organised crime, economic crime and corruption are factors of critical importance in the progressive establishment of the rule of law', etc. (OHR, i.e. a letter from the High Representative of 19 August this year inviting us to adopt amendments ensuring the extension of the mandate for judges and prosecutors appointed to the war crimes departments and organised crime).
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31241	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31242	The economic crime and the OSCE letter, here there is an explanation that also invites us to do so. Gentlemen, our reaction is missing. And that's why he reacted to the Office of the High Representative. I won't comment on the PIC or the High Representative's decisions or anything. We accept them, but according to what we should have done earlier, these proposals were followed by an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31243	Replication response. First Deputy Niko Lozančić, please. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31244	I, as I would say, particularly ungrateful and have no intention, would not like to come into such a position, to confront the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović, whom I personally appreciate in every respect, both as a person and as a representative and however you will, and I will try really as soon as possible. The basic laws you are trying to intervene on, which were intervened by the High Representative and declared by the High Representative. The High Representative has also declared amendments to that law, those laws in the capacity in which, as far as I'm concerned, he could declare and re-adopt new laws, so, because he has the capacity to do so, he has powers. If I had his powers, I might have done something completely different, but I don't. I... supported the proposals of these laws that are much wider than what the High Representative has declared, so I supported them as a proposal from our Council of Ministers, as our attempt to do. And here, I wanted to do it. I'm just one. But I'm not the High Representative. So the letters, which he sends us one way or another, must be defined. Unfortunately, this is not a debate on the High Representative, but unfortunately here I am speaking to the PIC; letters must either be written or passed by law means this, and you and I, means aware of the powers and mandates of the High Representative, we can be satisfied or dissatisfied with what he has declared, however it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31245	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sefer, did you sign up, give up?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31246	No, I was trying to replicate Lozančić, so I'm not around these buttons, I'm not doing very well.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31248	Very short. I really didn't think I was talking, although I had a lot to say about that previous agenda point and this one and he pulled me off with this – we're tearing down the credibility of these domestic existing institutions! Now, my question is, what are you tearing them down? What destroys the Council of Ministers chairmanship of its credibility and credibility when it proposes to replace a minister he knows won't pass? What's to lose here for two or three hours? There are a lot of things that this parliament should talk about, not about. Or, I can't ask the MPs, but why do you propose laws that you know in advance won't pass? I'd understand if he was on TV, so now we're kind of courting the people and we're talking about it. I'm not going to discuss any of this, I just want to say a little bit about something Lozančić said again. I'm sorry, there's nothing personal here, it's some principled things about war crimes and the survival of judges in the BiH Court of War Crimes and Chaos in the legal system. We actually have four legal systems in BiH that function: the BiH Court, the Federation, the Canton, the RS, the Brcko District. It turns out to be five. And now it's a general crowd in front of these cantonal courts to be tried for war crimes because the BiH Court judges according to one law, and cantons and the Fedracija judge by another law. We contributed to it, not the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, we passed those laws, we passed laws with a retroactive fact (I'm not telling you, I mean this Parliament) and we put our judges and prosecutors in a position to know very little or almost nothing. They have university knowledge of... responsibilities and therefore we need foreigners to explain it, and in the Cantonal Court for the same thing, the same crime gets a much lighter sentence than in the Court of Justice of BiH. These are some questions that we, like this House, could do, not waste time destroying our own institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31249	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31250	I would first like to say that disposing of prosecutors from the Special Department of Organized Crime is the establishment of dynamite in the foundations of the BiH rule of law. And at the end of this story, things are pretty clear right now. That's where I totally agree with my previous colleague. One part of those who make up government at the state level was for the survival of prosecutors in the Special Branch for Organized Crime, the other struggled barbarously for them to leave. In the end, here we are witnessing that it was more successful for the prosecutors to leave the Special Crimes Department and, in the end, we are all witnesses that this country is clearly not going in the right direction. And that's how it confirms the facts that are undeniable at the moment. First, political powers in this country made it very clear that they could not be judged by judges of another nation and religion, then they told us and managed not to be judged by international judges anymore. They are working on the fact that they can't even be tried by unsuitable prosecutors from their own people, and the whole point of the story is that individuals are trying not to judge them for nothing in this country and that they can do whatever they want to do to ultimately realize the ultimate goal, and they have publicly said that neither the BiH Court nor the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, the outcome is clear. This proposal, which we are currently considering, no matter how good the proposal may be, is clearly doomed at this session. It would be good if it were possibly harmonised, given that it came from, however, a party in power among coalition partners. I think the opposition can offer some things and most of them can refuse, because the opposition doesn't have the capacity to vote anything other than what they can propose and when the elections come, tell the people: we suggested it, these refused. But those who exercise power, in my opinion, before any proposal to be instructed in the parliamentary procedure, would have to see if there was a majority for it. If it doesn't exist, then it is, however we add and subtract, a waste of time. 96 We obviously need both the international community and the international prosecutors because individuals in this country are clearly pulling into one, I will refrain, however, from saying, at this moment, only in one great accident, all the people in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31251	The next is the replica, the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31252	Thank you. It's a replica to all of us. I've warned several times to stick to the agenda. Obviously that didn't work. And not to appear to be just dissatisfied and to have warned this Parliament about the way we want to discuss these two points, I believe it is beyond the usual practice in this Parliament, although, that is correct, it does not say in the Rules of Procedure. Nowhere does it say that, firstly, the decisions of the High Representative must be confirmed in our Rules of Procedure, so that after that we can discuss these points of the agenda. And, therefore, you're right, no Rules of Procedure has been broken. But it has also not been that practice so far in this House. But since we started to discuss this, the Court and the Prosecutor's Office are not a Dayton category and there is no in the Constitution of BiH and point. And also, if we are to discuss this, the Council of Ministers has tabled a compromise proposal, has been massacred on the Constitutional Commission of this Parliament, in order to meet the people who have submitted this proposal today and we have failed to agree on it and there is a point. The request for this, I see today, as just one number more which the BiH Party's adviser will write that the entity vote rejected two laws, and nothing more. That's the only reason here. Such laws are given here, knowing that they will not pass, so that the figure in the entity vote will increase. But it also won't say how many legal projects were passed by voting here. And I see those demands here. I didn't want to open that debate. I wanted to do it the way I suggested we get out of this. You didn't want to, then, please, open up and hear the other side of these demands. Please, let's go in order. berize, do you need to wait for Lazar first?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31253	I can wait for Lazar, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31254	Here's beriz, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31255	So, let me just say that we don't have those records, as it is said, and we don't absolutely need to keep any special records as this Parliament votes. Here's some organizations that deal with it. So, I assure you, we're not in the team.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31256	Thank you. 97 Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31257	Dear Mr. Chairman, my replica refers to one finding by the honourable MP Denis Bećirović. I would not agree with the finding that the exclusion of foreign judges, or prosecutors from the organized crime department, is the establishment of dynamite in the foundations of this country. Namely, if this country is not in a position 14 years after the Dayton Peace Agreement to face reality and to deal with domestic capacity with all forms of crime, then it is completely incomprehensible that it will do so... for the next three or four years. So, even when we don't have foreign prosecutors, I assure you, a very large number of judges and prosecutors, so BiH citizens, domestic judges and prosecutors have no less capacity than foreign prosecutors. What standards we will have to apply to go European, that is another question. I do not believe that anyone will give us positive assessments for the next steps towards EU membership and a number of other issues unless we meet this. If we wait for five or six people to solve it, then we'll never end it. Although I, I must say immediately, with all due respect and the current motionor, disagree on this, as I believe, I do not agree with that either, normally, we cannot influence it, imposing these amendments and supplementing both of these laws, but I am convinced, it is not always our solution, here it is now, whether in three years... or four years with foreign judges or prosecutors this will be resolved. So, it's not BiH's future in foreign judges and prosecutors, it's in standards that we're going to have to meet if we're going to be members of the EU and NATO Pact, it's our only future. If we can't do it ourselves, then we're a country that's absolutely incapable of having total sovereignty. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31258	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say I really don't see the point of this debate right now. Look, we already discussed this once when we had these laws. We're having the same discussion again. I don't see the real motive of the promoter, but here we are, and I don't understand who we're taking part in this whole story right now and why we're participating. After all, I think the High Representative with these imposed laws has made a better position for strangers than she has been. They have no influence through counselling, no responsibility. So they're going to have a far bigger and stronger position than they've had so far, and they're not going to be held accountable for anything. And, I think that's what the proposer should have in mind, and if he'd probably had that in mind, he wouldn't have proposed this law. That's why I don't think this debate is really leading to anything. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31260	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31261	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I can say that these laws are better quality and quality than they were brought by Incko. And if we bring these laws today, then the world will talk about our quality and reach consensus, more than he said about Prud. And the happiest will be Karl Bilt who will say, "Here, you see, they can make a deal." So let's vote for these laws and show that we're... homogeneous, so we can pass the laws ourselves. And on the other hand, I have one more thing to say. There is a Cardio Center institution in Tuzla, which performs top heart surgery, and in Sarajevo there are, and yet there are foreigners at the Tuzla Clinical Centre and in the Sarajevo Clinical Centre to operate on the heart and no one is bothered by it. So what's the difference between the prosecution, law and medicine? Not at all. Happy are those people who work together with strangers, who are more quality than we are, until we reach that level. And therefore, by my judgment, foreign prosecutors and judges can only help create the quality of our judges. And as our court does, I'm the best one to know. The municipal court, it doesn't matter in which city, makes by Article 371 about the bonding relations of judgment in my favour, and the second-degree court under the same article in 371 makes a verdict against me. So there's a judge's conviction no matter what it says or doesn't say. So we still need to have foreign people and learn certain things, because don't forget that all of us and who aren't judges and our children wear genes still in our heads and we can't separate ourselves from that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31262	Thank you. We're closing the debate. Moving to point 8. Ad. 8. Commission Report College on Efforts to Reach Consent on Amendment Law Proposal and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, Proposer: MEP Bajazit Jašarević (second reading) You've received a report from the College. The college didn't achieve consent. We plead in the second round on the draft law in the second reading, when it comes to voting. Moving to point 9. 99 Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01, 02-02-105/09, of 17. 11. 2009 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31265	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, what we have on the agenda today is actually the realization of the conclusion of this home from the beginning of this year. In its 44th session, held in 21.1.2009, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasked the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to draw up a list of products in co-operation with the Foreign Chamber of BiH according to the needs of manufacturers and processors from the metal and textile industries, etc., as well as the areas of agricultural production, which have the need to obtain relief, without paying customs duties for imports of certain raw materials quotas, with the aim of encouraging and competitiveness of domestic production." The foreign trade and economic relations ministry saw the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives as an invitation to draw up a proposal to amend and supplement the BiH Customs Tariff Act. I personally do not understand... why this sentence was last in the reasons for the adoption of the law, when it was quite clear what had to be done and here the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations was relatively up-to-date because in April it provided the Management Board for indirect taxation of the list of these products, with the aim of encouraging the competitiveness of domestic production, however, to the Management Board of indirect taxation it took seven months to grant approval, after which these amendments and additions to the Law were released into the procedure. The question arises, after almost a year, what effects will be achieved in encouraging and increasing the competitiveness of domestic production. So this here is another reason for making changes and supplementing laws in the area of indirect taxation, and now we have one absurdity. We, under item 11 of the original agenda, had a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the indirect taxation system in BiH, we voted that this would be a shortened procedure, but this was removed from the agenda because there was no agreement of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, so that instead of a shortened procedure it might be a new term, a regular procedure would be extended, because the question of when the Management Board of indirect taxation would give consent. 100 This is all about making sure that something in this field should be done, because these powers of the Management Board of indirect taxation really reduce everything we try to do in the field of protection of domestic production and certain incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31266	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31267	Here, I'll do it very briefly. These days I've talked to some people who are concerned with this problem, so the pig growers who are complaining and asking me a question, and I'm asking all of us here, unfortunately, there's no real minister or anyone from the ministry, if I'm not mistaken. I don't think there's anyone there. How could it have happened here, as it explains between the reasons for the adoption of amendments and the addition of this law, the failure to approve the import of pigs for tov, so less than 50 kg, did not put domestic species but dropped or deliberately dropped, and then later on, in the case of imports of these animals by these criteria, it is not those, but they are wild pigs. Look, I mean, very interesting. And that's how it goes, it's about what, ten months now. So I'm asking a question here to all of us -- is this an accident or intentional? I mean, very interesting. In the meantime, about one season of pig farming, I don't know either, went by, so it was very questionable how to get pigs in for that. And at the same time, I'm afraid it was possible even though this law here does not stand and do not result, but rather... as followed implicitly conclude and may as well not introduce drowned pigs for slaughter, however... not so. It happened exactly the opposite. So, because of some failure, let's call it what it says here, and the inaccuracy wasn't possible to import pigs for that, which is quite logical to allow under favourable conditions, and I have information, I haven't investigated the truth, I don't have time to do research and I don't intend to do it, but people say that pigs have appeared for slaughtering, drowned pigs, some say imported even under the conditions of customs and over-leathing. So, but here's what's going to fix it, but here I wanted to point out the fact that sometimes some illogical things happen, just by chance, let's all ask ourselves. In fact, the second part that I answered is that I support this and I think it's about time, and I should have reacted earlier to fix this. And let me keep in touch, now that I've heard from you. These days I've been talking to some people who do this job, so breeders, cattle producers, say there are different demands. Therefore, to prohibit the import of small pigs for that purpose and to authorise the import of drowned pigs, and this is sought without customs duties and levies. So the exact opposite of logic and how it should be. Therefore, such demands are also made by legal associations of agricultural producers who are even sometimes given that they are also the level of BiH's association. 101 So on this market and these jobs there are many problems and many different interests. And really, as Parliament, I think we should have a little bit more knowledge and information about what's going on so that we can take advantage of our opportunity and our commitment to influence a little bit, and that through questions and suggestions and solutions, we're directing the course in that right direction, not that here's the absurd thing that's happened so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31268	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one question for the promoter. I don't know if there's anyone in front of the promoter, I guess there isn't. So when it comes to these other conditions, here's what I'm going to read are the findings that fully derogate all of this as soon as possible. So he says, "The Council of Ministers of BiH, depending on the situation on the domestic market, can change certain of these ratios." So, what it says is 700, 1100, 100 and 80, the Council of Ministers depending on the situation on the market can change. Of course, it goes further and says, "The Council of Ministers may repeat the fixed quotas for each marking at a maximum twice a year or completely abolish the fixed tariff quotas." Again, it means if it's of interest to BiH's economy. So, we meet one legal obligation to pass the Customs Tariffs Act which the Council of Ministers can change without making the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law in the way that it decides. So, of course, it is understood that the Council of Ministers takes care of the needs of the market, means the needs of the economy, and they, in case of sugar, see how well they work. So this is a good opportunity for people now to slowly but certainly depending on these attitudes to start recalibrating manufacturers, of course completely legal and legitimately in accordance with the law. I think this part of the law means, we're talking about the principle now, because it's about the principles of law, about first reading, this part of the law can't go in a way that the Council of Ministers has the explicit right to decide, and even here it doesn't inform Parliament, which has now set a rate of 0 for 700 tonnes. The Council of Ministers says, okay, it doesn't have to be 700 tons but 0 tons, because we've found out, it's not the ones that live pigs, which the carnivores haven't met some of our demands, and we're not going to do it now. So, I'm going to act, I don't know, so I'd like to have a proposal here to see which mechanisms are now controlled by the Council of Ministers or individuals in the Council of Ministers not to do this here is what I've now assumed they are doing, and we've made it possible for them by law. That's what I'm going to ask and, of course, I hope the minister will be here, because the minister doesn't like to be present with the bill he's proposing. I saw it on sugar, so here it is. So it would be good to really see how wise this is even with these attitudes to pass the law. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31270	You don't have to, Jovičić, replicate. The minister wasn't on sugar, the minister was justifiably absent, and he can't legally recalibrate in accordance with the law, I mean, it's a little dyspression, but here. Slavko Jovičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31271	Dear Chairman, I thought we were here and sweetened and sweetened and that sugar was no longer so current, but I see that it will be repeated over and over again until the end of the term of office. This is some, Mr. Novaković, another story and you're completely clear. So, you'll be able to ask, but before that, you'll use the law in the first reading, and there's an opportunity to act as an amendment, and we'll call you as the committee responsible, as we do regularly, and you've made sure that you're making your amendments that I'm assuming you're going to make, and here I'm going to invest some amendments, and there we'll see what fate is going to be. Of course, it's very important and I agree with Mr. Suljkanović that we should have had this law a long time ago because here's what's been waiting for us since New Year's Eve, today some journalists have asked me. About a thousand products from New Year's Eve customs rate 0? What will be the inflow in the budget? Are we keeping an eye on how we're going next year and what's going to happen? So they're going to come up with these tariff numbers to cut customs, so what's that going to be? So we don't have that rounded financial structure at all, what it means to fill the budget. So, Mr. Novaković, I didn't realize your adjudication about the sugar that it was directed towards me but well, it agrees, the nod of the head approves, not everyone saw, here I'll confirm you nod your head. So it's nothing to do with me, and I've already talked about that sugar happy or unhappy twenty times. Even when it was the first time that quota was the only one, I said no one would sweeten it, there was something before New Year's Eve, and here's the thing, and now it's before New Year's Eve. Well, for that Serbian holy January, so how did it go, but here we voted to help our economy. I'd also like to know what the indicators of what we did back then, and what we're going to do, to see what contributes to budgeting. It's basic to fill the budget. So, I repeat, you're going to have a chance, first reading, so the amendment phase, you know it best, so we'll see how it goes. Thank you... the minister did a good job.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31272	No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: 103 Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01, 02-02-7-104/09, of 9. 11. 2009 (first reading) The Council of Ministers delivered the Council to regular procedure 9. 11. this law, and the Constitutional Commission Opinion on constitutional basis and principles 3. 12. I'm opening a debate on this law in my first reading. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01-02-02-4-106/09, of 18. 11. 2009 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Appreciateing our work today and the time in which we are now, I will only say in the shortest possible terms that the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration has come in the meantime, which...affirmively speaks... of the need to pass such a law. And I would ask all my colleagues to support him today in our first reading, to enable a public debate and to see what the attitude of those most concerned by this law will be, and then we have an amendment phase to fix. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31277	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Vesna Šain, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31278	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have several objections to the proposal for a law on the prevention of riots in BiH's sports competitions concerning criminal provisions. I think those criminal provisions may be a little inadequate and unreal, because they're unarranged. ... These measures, because of their repressive character, should have a preventive fact. But I also don't think that they can be respected, because these criminal measures, designed for fans, or viewers, in the height of 5 to 10,000 marks, are really too high. So unreal punishments don't have a preventive fact, so they can't be respected. And yet another remark, why didn't you provide for a prison sentence?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31279	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31280	Thank you. Here I would like to congratulate and commend the legislators of this law, congratulate them on the law many say was necessary and very positive assessments from the Directorate, the positive opinion of the committee in charge, etc. And thanks to them for the efforts they have made, and I personally have some misunderstandings and doubts whether the legislators have the ambition to enforce the law and apply at all levels of competition – state rank, entity, county, municipal and the lowest. I don't know how in all these paragraphs, here's one problem a colleague of mine has just presented in her debate, in terms of criminal provisions, is it possible to uniquely apply a criminal provision for disorder in the sport competition of an international or state character with that, not to say, rural, without insulting anyone. Furthermore, it says here that a sports competition should be reported 72 hours before. As far as I know, today's regulations regulate it to be 48, some say only 24, but here it may be necessary to regulate 105 to leave more time until the start of that competition. And what the accent was thrown into this bill is high-risk sports competition. But nowhere in this bill have I seen who is in charge of any future competition that will take place say it has a character of high risk. It's not said who it is, if it's some kind of sports alliance, if any bodies decide that a competition will be declared a high risk. And indeed, I have a big doubt whether this can be applied to all levels of competition from international, state, to the lowest, not to say rural.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31281	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to point 13. Ad. 13. Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, Proposers: SNSD MEPs Club, Act No: 01, 02–4–35/09, of 10. 4. In 2009, with the Commission's opinion on finance and budget The second time, at the 63rd session, no negative opinion of the Commission was accepted. The law was returned to the Commission to deliver a new opinion, this commission here for the third time 18. The 11th delivers an opinion that is once again negative. We vote today on the Commission's opinion. If accepted, the law falls; and if not, it returns to this commission. I am opening a debate on the Commission's opinion. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 14. Ad. 14. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH, Proposer: Member Momčilo Novaković, Law No 01, 02-0-5-93/09, of 13. Ten. 2009, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31287	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, given the time spent so far... let me just say a few words. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Civil Affairs for his really expedient and spotless response to the initiative to submit this information, because it is a serious problem and deserves a responsible relationship. It is good that this... burning problem of the world today, from whom more than 10,000 citizens have lost their lives so far in time, is challenging the reactions of those institutions that are vital to its suppression and mitigation. I have nothing in particular to add to this information and information submitted by the minister at the last session, but it would be good to know what the situation is with preventive protection activities in terms of the purchase and use of appropriate flu vaccines and the supply of medicines for the treatment of virus patients. It would also be good if the information contained statistics on the spread of the disease, i.e. the number and condition of the disease and the number of deaths caused by the H1N1 virus disease, both in BiH and in the environment. Because there are also certain delusions and manipulations and misinformation, depending on which media or from which institutions the information comes. Giving this information is officially important, not for reasons to spread certain psychosis and fear of this virus, but for reasons to seriously address preventive protection and the fight to combat the pandemic. What I, as a citizen and as an MP, must be particularly stressed that education and informing citizens about this virus should be further intensified. As a layman of medicine, I understand that in the fight against this virus, the most I can do is make citizens who, with one disciplined behavior, give less chance of getting sick and being carriers of this disease. Therefore, it is necessary to suggest that information and educational activities on this virus are intensified as much as possible. Because citizens with great attention and a great need to monitor this activity, they are following this information, I would say, with more interest than anything in BiH today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31288	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, discussion. Here you go. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31289	First of all, at the last Parliament meeting, we received information from Mr. Minister, and I thank you for your spotting. Now we get this in writing and let me just (I wanted to talk then but knowing that there is a debate today) in preventive protection I can't possibly understand that by taking this flu as something that is dangerous for BiH, in the era when there's a lot of talk about it, we just have students going on excursions to the places where it occurs. They go to Barcelona, they go to Rome and then they come back and they're sick. See, now it's over, now she's here, so the preventive action wasn't possible, so I'd ask in the next analysis to stress it out so that eventually in some other pandemic disease we could say that the program has to stand and ban going on a field trip. Why am I saying that? I'm talking about why my question is why it's, why it hasn't been prevented, you know what I got the answer: the travel agencies have objected... against the fact that children can't go on tours. So is the tourist agency more important to us than the health of the BiH citizens? Here, that's one question I'd like it to have a place like this to prevent it from going there to the pandemic, and not to stop the tourist agencies from working normally.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31290	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31291	Thank you. Mr. Selim Bešlagić said that these excursions should be banned and that's all he had to hold on to. But I think it's impossible and it's unconstitutional because it's not an epidemic of that kind when something like that can be banned. And even though it would be banned, say, from a school field trip, it's not enough because they can't ban individual departures in places that are potentially controversial and that could lead to infection. And that would not be a solution for any country, and probably not what the ministries decided because it would certainly not be a prevention that would bring results if the disease was not brought into the country. My proposal is that, in the future, when this is discussed, and we are already talking about it in this information, in another way, prevents it, and that is to control when it comes to the country, etc., which is quite possible and quite justified until, for example, such measures prohibiting going on trips... in the impossible to prevent certain other departures, etc., were private, whether organised etc. - it's quite something that's absurd. And then there will be one discrimination against these schools, whether they were primary, middle or some others, etc., etc. Therefore, it is impossible to ban it and we should not rely on the prevention of banning, because it is the least popular and something that will always slip left-right and abuse, but simply we should try to prevent it in another way. And one of these preventions is, let's say, monitoring the country's entry, a mandatory checkup or something, experts already know that. Thank you very much. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31292	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31293	I'll be very brief. We have the most fellow doctors here, but it seems to me, all the professions between us, and none of these people have come forward, which is very interesting and indicative. But I'm still going to ask one question that I find interesting like this. So, listening to the news and reading from the means of reporting about the H1N1 virus in ours... are also in the countries of Europe and even wider and comparing BiH with those countries about the number of patients, we don't know at least five times better than everyone else or even ten times than others, because we seem to be well resistant and sustainable so we can't do anything about it. Because here, it says here that this is a total of 983 people, and I don't know, neighbouring Serbia seems to me 25 thousand years ago, Croatia also in the 90s, so really here's one question to all colleagues, and doctors -- how do they explain such a small number, or is it a lack of quality reporting and monitoring, or is it really a reason that BiH citizens are resistant to this virus, or is it here already mentioned that we're not traveling well, etc., here's what the reasons are?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31294	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirjana Malić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31295	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31296	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31297	... there is no need to react to such a spotless and excellent report by the Ministry of Civil Affairs at all, and I am not responding to it, responding to a non-democratic ban mentioned by my colleague Okolić. Since ancient medicine, quarantine has been known as completely effective, no matter how undemocratic the ban on the spread of the disease, but I think our Ministry of Civil Affairs is in some way even though it has in its own way in the event of a deterioration in the situation that it can use this declared pandemic and suggest that the competent entity or cantonal ministries shut down schools, ban communication, large gatherings, etc. And what Mr. Jukić spoke of in terms of Bosnian resistance, not unfortunately Bosanac are resistant, they are only so poor that they travel very little compared to neighbouring countries and have far fewer chances of getting sick. But joke aside, this is too serious a question for us to be able to play with the fate of the children and youngsters who are the most exposed, apparently even the least resilient. And that's why I don't think it's necessary to have the support of our home that the Ministry uses all its coordination or other powers to coordinate with the competent 110 levels in charge of caring for the health of our people and that I believe that, as you have so far, you will take all measures that will be both effective and preventive.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31298	Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31299	The honourable messenger probably didn't understand or hear me very well. I didn't say there would be discrimination in the event that conditions are obtained for this and when such a condition is declared which may be...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31300	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31301	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31302	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31303	So watch out, around the pandemic, you have to take a look at what a pandemic is, what an epidemic is,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31304	Please don't let us go into that kind of conversation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31305	Yeah, because watch out, I've been listening the other day, and I can make it up to you to see, they say there's isolation and only then behind quarantine isolation, so special decisions are made. I just said if you just want to act preventively on school trips, it's not okay, and when the law is passed, or based on... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's right. Then that goes for everything. There's no discrimination there then, it's something quite different, so we don't get it wrong, because I've defended prevention only on school and student trips. Thank you very much. 111
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31307	Thank you. We're finishing this part of the agenda. We're going to 18. Ad. 18. Report from the Commission from the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Resolution on the historical value and importance of the First session of ZAVNOBiH (25 November 1943) on Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood (proposer: Denis Bećirović) You've received a match report. The college didn't achieve consent. Today we will vote in the second round on the motion for a resolution. Moving to point 19. Ad. 19. Consideration of the conclusions on the reduction of salaries and other material rights of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (adopted proposal for a follow-up to the 64th session of the House, held on 7. 12. 2009)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31310	Since you've all received a proposal for these conclusions, and I've talked quite a bit about this, both the conclusions and the reasoning of these conclusions when we've included, so that I don't repeat both the discussion and the conclusions, it's all clear, so we're left to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31311	Thank you. Moving to the 20th point of the agenda: Ad. 20. Declaration on the request of the Commission for verification of the alleged distribution of CEMT licences for extension of the deadline for submission of the report 112 21. 11. In 2009, we received a request from the Commission of Investigation to extend the deadline to 30. 12. I'm opening a debate on the request, please. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31313	I generally have nothing against this request, but you can see that the situation, Drago, is complicated, that people are practically making a kind of pressure and they're very unhappy that there's no answer. Is it possible to give an answer to people within the earlier deadline, or within the next seven, eight, ten days? I will support this request absolutely. But in the meantime, I see things get complicated, just about these things. If it's not possible, of course, I'll support what's required.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31314	Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31315	Well, I don't have anything special to say except that the vice-president, Mr. Belkić, is right. We only got the first paperwork from the Ministry of Traffic a few days ago, so the obstruction is reopened and we have no other way than to get over this extension now for the next few days, here we are today consulting and agreeing on a session of the Commission, after we've got a few appointments. So, I'm behind the fact that the Ministry of Traffic, which is crucial to us in this business, for certain reasons, didn't want to cooperate or to deliver the documentation. So, after this extension request, we only received the first documentation a few days ago, which we will now immediately consider on the Commission. Because without it, we couldn't make any progress, to understand each other. Our only way out was to ask for an extension. Why is that, we'll probably have a chance here when we get the report and the Commission's report on why it's all happening. We warned, I warned the Ministry and the Minister on several occasions orally and in writing that I just don't understand, but to be honest with everything that's going on there, I do and understand why it's obstruction. But here's what we're gonna do, safely, if this decision is adopted, we're gonna end it in a hurry, and the result is whatever it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31316	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž, replica. Here you go. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31317	As far as I have information, so this question was raised by distinguished representative Dušanka Majkić in the House of Peoples a long time ago and, as far as I know, the Ministry of Transport and Communications delivered over 400 pages of documents there long ago. And that's true, that's the only truth. So there's no talk of any obstruction, and I think that when these evaluations are given, there's some information that needs to be ruled out. I can say this responsibly, because I know that Mr. Vidović has reacted without delay about these issues both in public terms and in any other way, so I cannot accept allegations of obstruction of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31318	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31319	Well, Mr. Raguž isn't just, in fact, I think he told me who he was referring to. It's not us. I absolutely don't care what he said to Mrs. Majkić. So it's not us. Mrs. Majkić is not a member of this house. The answer to the parliamentary question is what I know, now not to be like Mr. Džaferović in the halls that I heard, but I heard she waited a long time for one such answer. I don't know why you wait so long and what's the problem with the CEMT licenses? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We heard this story in the halls this morning, so I heard this about Mrs. Majkić, too. So that's what I'm saying, again, to us, at least we think it's a duty for this home's investigative committee to provide the requested information. If you think I should take it from Mrs. Majkić, does she have a privileged status with the minister so she's kind of, I don't want that kind of thing, I said that to the minister. The Commission has three members and we don't think, we didn't get that documentation that I can hear from the tower that the answer to the parliamentary question was addressed, I don't know what she was asking for in her question, but I know what we're looking for to get to the valid... We're waiting here, we know, hard work, and I'm going to repeat that it's an obstruction, that it's about buying time, that it's about the fact that there's been an illegal and criminal division, which is a normal continuation of that practice in this ministry. We didn't make it, that problem. Whoever doesn't want to see it, then I don't think it's correct, and I think we all need to work our way through this problem. If you want to cover it up, here's the deal. You can't extend the deadline now, we'll break this committee apart, and it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31321	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Martin Raguž. Here you go. 114
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31322	Okay, we can play with words, we can change the thesis, so no one here is cover-up and I don't know what could have concluded that someone is here to cover-up, but on the contrary. I would like to say that the documentation has long been extensive and exhaustive in Parliament. So if someone wanted to obstruct it, they wouldn't be delivering that paperwork to Parliament. And secondly, I'm absolutely in favour of investigating it, and if we can do something like the club, Mr. Kalabić, to help out, say, and I'm going to ask the Expansive College to inform each other about the situation in certain parties, when it comes to representatives in both homes and to reduce this mutual need for replicas. I mean, if it's a party in Parliament that it's the same party and that the MPs are the same, we're not going to work in the House of People for six months, then six months; if it's meant to be true, and we can accept it, if it's not believed to be people who are there and we're going to accept it, but don't manipulate that someone wants to put things under the rug, on the contrary, and that someone wants to obstruct it. Now, that's what I want to throw away.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31323	Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31324	Well, I don't think there's any need for this, but I have a few facts to say one more time. So, your club, Mr. Raguž, has the privilege of having a member of the Commission in this case and all of what I'm telling you you could hear from a member of the Commission, Mr. Zoric, why we can't do it. So I absolutely don't want to be incorrect. I'm not going absolutely into what the other house is doing or what the other MPs are doing. We asked the Ministry correctly, and I think it's our turn to get it, with full respect that it's their turn and that others get it, whether through the answer to the parliamentary question, whether or not to any other questions. But I'm telling you again, it's not right for us to collect it for what we had this morning, in the hallways. We asked for it and that we could consider it as a Commission. There are members of the Commission who know it's there. Here, to shorten the discussion, what we've got, we're sure to, and here it is, we're going to open this procedure, we're going to have public hearings, we're going to call all these people who have different attitudes, and we're going to see where we are. But I don't think this should have happened, but here's the deal, if it's a deadline extension, I think we're ready to end it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31325	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31326	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have been a member of this Commission for Transport and Communications for seven years. Seven years are being examined by CEMT licenses and this is a serious problem. This is a serious problem. Mr. Morankić, otherwise an MP, has been working on it all the time and I think 115 that we have decided on the Commission to form this committee to examine CEMT license, a team that has recently been in RS, I would say, the Drivers' Association has raised again the question of CEMT licenses and I think this is a question that must be resolved. And that's why I think Kalabić is right, but right away, let me say that Mr. Vidović is correct and I think there's a falinka around here. You need to submit the total documentation, you need to extend the mandate and you need to come up with a solution that would finally solve this issue of CEMT license, starting with why... it is not introduced there, I would say, automatic processing to what is being said about these CEMT permits being mass smuggling. I think we should respect this request for correctness and Mr. Vidović as the minister I consider very correct, perhaps... did something that he did not deliver, but I am telling you, knowing a man, had no intention whatsoever, and this question is very important and therefore I advocate to extend, I would say, to accept this extension request.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31327	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 21. Ad. 21. Proposal for the appointment of Mirsad Salkić, a graduate electrical engineering engineer, as a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity (Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 03-28-1109, of 3. 11. 2009) We received a proposal from Council of Ministers 3. 11. The Transport and Communications Commission delivered Opinions on 15.12. and unanimously decided to propose to the House to accept this proposal on the appointment of Mirsad Salkić as a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from the Federation of BiH. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 22. Ad. 22. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives in the Joint Commission of both homes in order to reach agreement on the identical text of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Act 116
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31331	I'll give up...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31332	Thank you. Moving to point 24. Ad. 24. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes in order to reach agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration The law is adopted in a different text, three members need to be appointed. The proposal in the Extended College was: honourable MPs Kadrić, Živković, Jukić. 117 I'm opening a debate. Do you have any other suggestions? Here you go. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31334	We discussed it once, so it was said that it would be appreciated. It's a bit symptomatic that there are never any members in the opposition in these commissions, and I don't think there's any reason for there to be any opposition in these commissions sometimes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31335	Thank you. We don't think there were any other suggestions. Point 25. Ad. 25. Approval of ratification: (a) Stockholm Convention on Permanent Organic Contaminants – Štokholm, 22 May 2001, (b) Convention on Temporary Import – ATA Karnet, Istanbul, 26 July 1990 Yesterday we received the Commission's opinion on these agreements. The Foreign Affairs Commission has given positive opinions and is proposing to the House that approval be given to ratification of these acts. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Is 15 minutes enough to consult? At 18.45 hours of voting. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31338	... since I suggested this conclusion number four, I didn't indicate that it was within this point. I only ask you, here as in the previous, to first about this conclusion, and then... this conclusion 'to get a report on the work of the Council of Ministers overall'.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31339	I don't think he's going to, (just a little bit, this is about confirming the decision), he's not derivating this decision and we're going to vote on that conclusion no matter what this decision is. 119
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31340	But I'm just asking if it's possible first on this conclusion and then on this decision, here, for the SDP Club, we'd like to see the attitude first.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31341	Here, in the College, we don't have the consent to put that at the beginning. morati'll have to ask Dom if he agrees to vote first on your conclusion. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 11 votes, "against" 22, "abstained" three. We vote first on confirming this decision. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! We're voting on confirming this decision. "For" 12 votes, "against" 21, "abstained" four. I find this decision unconfirmed. We are voting on the conclusion of Denis Bećirović. Is there any need for me to read it? Thank you. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 10 votes, "against" 24, "abstained" three. I figure this conclusion didn't get most of it. Moving to point 5. We are voting on receiving this information Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the reasons for the delay in ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol (in accordance with the conclusion of the House of 65th session, held 7. 12. 2009) I don't know if there's any need to vote, because that's what you get. I don't usually put it to a vote. I mean, to realize that we've received information. Anybody else have a suggestion? There isn't. Thank you. Moving to point 6. The request of MP Azra Hadžiahmetović to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Prosecutor's Office of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-5-1909, of 15. 12. 2009 Please prepare to vote. 120 you can vote, now! "For" 24 votes, "against" 12, "sustained" one, an insufficient entity majority. The House will be informed of how the Kolegijum decided to comply. I have some more consultations to do in the meantime. Moving to point 7. MP Azra Hadžiahmetović's request to discuss the draft law amending the BiH Court of Justice by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-5-11809, of 15. 12. 2009 Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! There were no "for" 25 votes, "against" 12, "abstained". I'm finding an insufficient entity majority. Same target same distance, within three days you will be notified. Moving to point 8. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, Proposer Bajazit Jašarević (Law in Second Reading) Voted in the second round on this draft law in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31342	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31343	We're voting on the College's report to be agreed. There's a vote in the second round. You want to do it again?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31344	In the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31345	In the second round, in fact, the Kolegijum had a negative alignment. Is there any need to keep voting, or should we do it again, or is that okay? _________(?) Repeat, repeat the vote. What? 121
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31347	So there are no ten votes "against" and this law has passed. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31348	No requests, please allow me to hold a session. There is no request for a re-vote. Is there a SDS request for a re-election? There isn't. Moving to point 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01-02-02-105/09, of 17. 11. 2009 (first reading) We vote for the law in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 22 votes, there are no votes "against", "abstained", 14, an insufficient entity majority. Parliament will be informed of the alignment. We're going to point 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01, 02-02-7-104/09, of 9. 11. 2009 (first reading) The vote is on the bill in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 34 votes, without the vote "against", "sustained" three, a sufficient entity majority. I realize we've passed this law. Moving to point 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01, 02-02-4-106/09, of 18. 11. 2009 (first reading) The bill is in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 31 votes, "against" was not, "sustained" six, a sufficient entity majority. I realize we've passed this law. 122 We move to point 12. Proposal for a law on preventing riots in BiH sports competitions, proposing: MPs Adem Huskić, Remzija Kadrić and Mehmed Suljkanović, Law No: 01,02-5-101/09, of 3. 11. 2009 (first reading) We vote on the bill in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 24 votes, "against" nine, "abstained" three, an insufficient entity majority. We have no consent in the College. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 24 votes, "against" 12, "abstained" was not available; the RS has two-thirds of the vote "against". I realize we haven't passed this law. Point 13. Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, Proposers: SNSD MEPs Club, Act No: 01,02-4-35/09, of 10. 4. In 2009, with the Commission's opinion on finance and the budget, the Commission's opinion on finance and budget is negative, we vote on the Commission's opinion. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 20 votes, "against" 17, there was no "abstained". I find that...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31349	It's a match.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31350	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31351	There's one from the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-16-0.u31352	Only one from the RS. We're going to the second round of voting, we don't have consent. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! 123 "For" 20 votes, "against" 17, there were no "abstained"; two-thirds of RS. I find that the law returns to this commission for re-emergence. Moving to point 14. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH, Proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković, Law No 01, 02-0-5-93/09, of 13. Ten. In 2009, we also vote on the Commission's opinion in the same way. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 20 votes, "against" 14, "abstained" one, an insufficient entity majority. We don't have the consent. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 22 votes, "against" 14, "abstained" one; two-thirds of the vote "against" from RS. I find that this law has been sent back to the Commission for a second opinion. Moving to point 15. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! Report unanimously adopted, both homes agreed. "For" 22 votes, "against" 12, "sustained" one, a sufficient entity majority. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, (?) No microphone turned on
