ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25928	Please take your seats, who's here. Please, we're waiting for the quorum, here comes the quorum. Please take your seats. Please, we're starting to work. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 52nd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. I say hello again. Currently, there are 28 MPs in the hall with a tendency, hopefully, to increase their presence. The absence from today's session was justified: Jovan Todorović, Vinko Zorić for health reasons. Because of the official route, they are absent: Azra Hadžiahmetović, Milica Marković, Slavko Matić, Mirjana Malić, Velimir Jukić, Bakir Izetbegović, because you know that the Council of Europe is meeting. I would also like to inform you that I have been asked by the chairman of the Council of Ministers to inform you, that I have justified my absence and the absence of ministers and deputies by the fact that a Council of Ministers meeting has just been held which had to be scheduled for some of the reasons justified for today. Also, there are other obligations, so today we have the presence of mostly aides, advisers from the Council of Ministers. Please respect this fact. I will skip this time, so to speak, to report the inventory of commitments, conclusions, initiatives, etc. Because yesterday we did it at the Expansive College. I hope the club presidents passed it on. But here, if there's any need, of course I can do it. But here, I say, because of the efficiency and rational use of time to be as concrete as possible. So, something short about the agenda. And this time we have had some changes, they are the result of delivering reports, respecting the Rules of Procedure... in the case of requests for postponement, extension of deadlines etc. Therefore, mainly, the proposal for a law on public procurement was removed, at the request of the Commission, and the agenda included a statement on the request for an extension of the deadline for the submission of the Report on this law. It was also removed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, as it addressed the College of the Representatives of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security which had not delivered a new opinion and requested... an extension of the deadline, which was approved by the College. Two more points have been included that have fulfilled business assumptions. So it is about appointing members in the Joint, so to speak, the ad hoc commission to agree on the same text of the Law on the Agency for the provision of services in air navigation and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on 2 State Services in BiH institutions, because the House of Peoples adopted these two laws at yesterday's session in somewhat different texts. You got, I hope, on the benches and you found a proposal for a final agenda. I'm opening a debate on today's 52nd session. Here you go. Huskić Adem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25929	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, other guests, I have a proposal, and colleagues, of course, I apologize, for two additional points of the agenda, given that this agenda is not overcrowded. Namely, I'm one. 4. wrote one letter, addressed it to the chairman-in-Office of Parliament and proposed to adopt a conclusion that would look like this: 'The legislative and executive bodies of the BiH authorities are in charge of making their own action plans for implementing recommendations from the Committee on Peace Implementation of the European Commission's committee of 26. 3. 2009 'years.' I think this is a very serious document... from a very serious authority and I don't think any government legislative or executive in BiH has the right to act as if this document doesn't exist. And as for the Parliamentary Assembly itself, on one side... the fourth that, when we talk about strengthening the rule of law, there is a paragraph that refers directly to Parliament and I will read it here. "The Peace Implementation Council Management Board welcomed the European Parliament's resolution of 15 January 2009, which calls on the EU institutions and countries to declare on 11 July the Day of Remembrance of Genocide Victims in Srebrenica, and recommended that BiH mark that day in an appropriate manner." This, I think, would be direct.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25930	Please submit a proposal to the agenda, and we'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25931	I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25932	Please submit the text of the proposal to the agenda point and we will make it clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25933	Okay, I'll deliver. That's one point. So to adopt the conclusion, I'll write that down. And the second point I propose is the next point; so, the agenda item should read: 'Making 3 decisions to declare January 27th on the International Day of Remembrance... on the victims of the Holocaust and on July 11th on the Day of Remembrance of the victims of genocide in Srebrenica.' The shortest explanation would be for the first part: calling for a decision by the UN General Assembly since 2005 declaring on January 27th the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims, taking into account the European Cultural Convention of 1954, referring to the 2002 Declaration of European Education Ministers, taking into account the practice of 29 countries from Europe, I propose that on January 27th it be declared the Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims. There is a review of 29 countries in Europe that declared that day. Two, calling on the Srebrenica Resolution adopted by the European Parliament on 15 January, calling for recommendations from the Committee of the Governing Council for the Implementation of Peace in BiH to, quote: 'Bosnia and Herzegovina mark that day in an appropriate manner', estimating that the adoption of these recommendations would contribute significantly to the reconciliation process in BiH, given that no relevant political party in BiH has denied genocide in Srebrenica, I suggest that on July 11th, it is announced that the Day of Remembrance of the victims of genocide in Srebrenica. So these are two points that need to be placed on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25934	Send me the written text of those two agenda points, and we'll be in touch. Here's the debate on the agenda. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25935	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, media representatives, I waited two sessions earlier to see our conclusion on the agenda that we adopted together two months ago. We proposed, and we all adopted this conclusion together: 'That the Council of Ministers, in particular, the Ministry of Security, should provide us with information within 15 days on the state of security of journalists in BiH.' Since, here, already two sessions, we don't have these agenda points, as a proposer of that conclusion, which I remind you, is accepted here at the House of Representatives, today I feel the need to propose or put this in the agenda, but, given that we have no information, it's probably a more logical conclusion if we can come to one conclusion today at the session, which is that for the next session, this is the point of the agenda, well, and if the information doesn't come from the Ministry of Security, again, to be the point of the agenda, because then we can make some conclusion of another nature. And I'd like to ask around point 24. The Commission's report on the efforts to reach agreement on the conclusions under number 1 and number 5, Denis Bećirović, proposed to discuss the 2008 report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, if it is possible only to obtain short information, since the conclusion that the College also discussed and tried to reach agreement referred to one quite logical thing. In fact, we all agreed at last session that the Council of Ministers did not realise with 50% its plan, so the Council of Ministers' Action Plan in 2008. My conclusion is to hear from the Council of Ministers which is why. And here, is it in the material, and I got that no consent has been reached. If it's not a problem, 4 Mr. Chairman, just that here as a proposing, I suppose there's no opening of the debate when this item comes to the agenda, that at least I know who disagreed with one quite logical assessment, which is to get information from the Council of Ministers as Parliament: Why didn't they implement their Work Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25936	Is there any further on the agenda? You see, Mr. Bećirović, I'm a little bit of a man, and I said this time, Denise, this time I'm going to skip reporting, inventory, etc. So the club president didn't tell you. We unfortunately haven't until yesterday... we haven't received information from the Ministry of Security and I haven't been able to provide for today's session of that information. Of course, we'll work on that as soon as possible, and as far as I'm concerned, we can put that point in, come up with no information, we can put it on the agenda. And when it comes to harmonisation at the level of the College, etc., we don't list or give information about who voted, we make a report, a standard report showing whether or not the College has reached agreement. That's what I can tell you right now. Of course, you'll be able to see the relationship to those conclusions when we make a statement about it. So here's the deal. I ask you that those who have concrete suggestions on the agenda for today's session to deliver them to me, so that we may make a statement about them. Mr. Huskić, have you prepared that? Here's to discussing the agenda, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25937	Thank you, Chairman. koleginica Members, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished ministers, respected guests, it is obvious that there is less and less need for an extended college if we are to discuss the agenda today. At the same time, I think that such serious points as you suggested or at least I realized in your explanation that you want to run them today would require at least a little preparation for getting to know about these points of the agenda. I ask you in this way not to open these questions here in Parliament, so that it would be better to prepare them, to deliver them and to consider them first in a Kolegijum, and then here together on 12 May. Obviously, if that's not how it's discussed here, we're going to have to ask for a break from the SNSD Club, too, we're probably going to run for some other points here. Therefore, I would ask you not to spread today's agenda, and I disagree with you that he is not large. He's large and has very important points, there's going to be a lot of discussion about it, and it seems to me that with these two points, we'd only make today's session work more complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25938	Mr. Huskić, you've heard a kind of suggestion, a suggestion. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25939	I'm pretty sure my proposal applies to this, because I'm one. 4th sent you a letter.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25940	It's all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25941	So there was time, and I don't think there are points like that to take up a lot of time, you just have to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25942	Okay... so, now let me brief you. When it comes to the proposal for this item of the agenda related to 'indemnity of legislative and executive bodies', we can declare this because we have some materials. However, point 2. "decision" etc., we don't have materials for that point. So, me now, so here's what you say you have, and Secretary Dom tells me you don't. No business assumptions have been met to plead point 2. All right, Mr. Huskić. So, please, we're pleading on Mr. Huskić's proposal. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25944	Gentlemen, the chairman, I don't know what kind of materials you have, we don't have any. So we don't have any materials, we don't even have a proposal for a agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25945	Well, we'll make it clear that we don't accept that item on the agenda and the office.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25946	Well, there's nothing we can't accept, because at this point, we have nothing. So we don't have any. When I thought, when my colleague Huskić...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25947	...to respond to the MPs. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25948	...when my colleague Huskić came forward, I thought... it was about this fragrant case of this Tuzla monster that he did a few days ago in court, and I thought that would be the case and that this parliament would plead today. But it seems to be irrelevant, it's irrelevant, let's go to these things that will complicate in another way the one, that here somewhere, that around Tuzla somewhere... But I think the SNSD Club is proposing at this point for two points of the problem I appreciate. There are no documents, we have nothing, we have nothing to say about, we have nothing to say. Either take a break until we get these materials or we realize we don't have any documents at all. I don't even know what we're saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25949	It's an hour's break he's been looking for.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25950	Look, when it comes to the first item of the agenda, the document was published on the 30th, it was on the website and I sent it to you and I understood that you delivered the papers to the MPs. And here, if you're not, I'll copy.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25951	I know what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25952	All right, here, give me a break of 10 minutes, I'll deliver it to everyone. Or you keep working until I...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25953	Mr. Huskić, a 10-minute break at the request of the Party's MPs' Club for BiH. [[PAUZA]] Please, the break time is up, the materials are shared. Please, when it comes to words, please take your seats to try to clarify ourselves a little bit. So, Mr. Huskić proposes to include two new points of the agenda. The first item of the agenda, i.e. the conclusion, that is, the agenda item 'The legislative and executive bodies of the BiH government are in charge of making their own action plans for implementing recommendations from the committee of the Management Committee for Peace Implementation of 26.3.2009. 'years.' This material was delivered to the messengers (so, Adam, I know), so it was delivered to the messengers. However, we have not indicated that it will be at today's session of the agenda and I 7 have no certainty that people have brought it and have paid attention to it, etc. We have also informed you that we have done so and that you can propose at one of the next sessions as part of the agenda. Here, we're now trying to share that material with people. As for the second item of the agenda, proposed by Mr. Huskić, so today to make a decision on the proposal for a decision to declare January 27th on the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims and July 11th on the Day of Remembrance of Genocide Victims in Srebrenica. And this proposal is based on the European Parliament's document, so their resolution. And that material is being copied and we're trying to provide it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25955	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25956	Well, get up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25957	We all got from the Foreign Ministry one of our materials, I don't know what date it's on, you'll see, I'll copy it, we all have it, which also suggests it. In fact, they are forwarding us a European Parliament resolution with statements from discussions there and proposing that we adopt.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25958	You're all right, Mr. Huskić, there's only such material there, hundreds of people get it, we didn't say they'd be sitting on the agenda today. And I understand, in a way, demands that people look at it. And it's true that people were getting etc. Here, I'm asking Dom now: can we?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25959	Drago Kalabić...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25960	Mr. Kalabić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25961	Mr. Chairman, if I understand that this will not be proposed today to end the discussion. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25962	No, no, I was just trying to explain the materials that should be the basis to help MPs decide whether to include or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25963	I'm listening to you, but I repeat once again that no SNSD MP here has any documents. At this point, we have no suggestion of what the draft agenda point looks like, not at this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25964	I read it, you don't, this is divided.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25965	We don't. We don't have it divided. So don't think...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25966	So, I'm not able, I'm really sorry, I don't have the abilities, I'm not able to provide the materials and I'm asking, Mr. Huskić, to postpone these suggestions for the agenda for the next session. I'm not able to provide what the MPs are asking me to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25967	Let me just say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25968	Well, just say the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25969	Is that, I'm asking, does it mean that I have to propose again at the next session?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25970	You don't have to do anything. I'll send everything to the MPs and we'll plead here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25971	Okay, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25972	Thank you very much. Do we have anything else on the agenda? Let me establish the agenda for today's session, 52. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 51st session of the House of Representatives; 9 2. Parliamentary questions and answers; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions (second reading); 4. Proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's lawyership (second reading); 5. Proposal for a framework law on the basis of scientific research activities and coordination of internal and international research co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Postings of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 8. Proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts (first reading); 9. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Military Commissioner for Bosnia and Herzegovina – MPs Šefik Džaferović and Adem Huskić (first reading); 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the House of Peoples (first reading); 12. Proposal for a law on the provision of proportionate ethnic representation in the authorities of the administration and local self-government in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 13. Proposal for an Excise Act (first reading); 14. Declaration by the House on the Request of the Commission for Finance and the budget for the extension of the deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement; 15. Declaration on the proposal for a revised Bosnia and Herzegovina strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement and the conclusions arising from the debate, which are agreed by the competent commission; 16. Annual report by the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2008; 17. Financial Report from the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2008; 18. Report on the activities of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions Audit Office for 2008; 19. Report on the 2008 budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency; 20. Report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH for the period from 1. 1. 2008 to 16. 2. In 2009, with the proposal for a conclusion; 21. Work report and Financial Report from Bosnia and Herzegovina Post Office 2008; 22. Report on the work of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency for 2008; 23. Report by the Interim Joint Commission on determining the old foreign savings of BiH citizens placed on the accounts of domestic banks and branches in BiH; 24. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the conclusions under No. 1st and 5th. Denis Bećirović, proposed for the 2008 report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers; 25. A statement on Parliamentarian Slavko Jovičić's initiative to discuss at the House's meeting "The State Investigation and Protection Agency Report on Criminal Crime committed against several persons from Republika Srpska"; 10 26. A statement on Parliamentarian Željko Kuzmanović's initiative to discuss "A report by the BiH Prosecutor's Office on how to receive and continue to act on the delivery of the State Investigation and Protection Agency's report on the crimes committed against several persons from Republika Srpska"; 27. Declaration on MPs' initiative Adem Huskić and Šemsudin Mehmedović to amend the Decision on the restriction of imports of passenger cars, freight vehicles and car tyres; 28. Appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to bring the text of the Law on the provision of air navigation services; 29. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to bring the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions into line. We're going to work. Ad. 1. Minutes of the 51st session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25976	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, present, I will ask one parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25977	They're comments, Ekreme. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25978	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25979	Comments on answers. Now we have comments on the answers received.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25980	Well, here in the agenda writes MPs' questions and answers. I thought there were questions first, so answer them. Come on, then I don't have any, I didn't have any questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25981	I apologize, so the practice is constant, the practice is to comment first on the answers and, I apologize, here we will put the future on the agenda: comments on answers and questions. Husein Nanić, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25982	I thank you, Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, guests, MPs, I have been given the answer to three questions, and this time I would like to publicly praise the activities led by the Federal Ministry of Energy, Industry and Mining on the UN-San canton gasification project and I am pleased with the response I received both from the Ministry and from BH Gas. I would also like to commend the response I received from the Council of Ministers, and this is about opening small-scale crossings in the electoral unit from where I come from, Bihać and velik Kladuša, and I want to take the opportunity to publicly thank the activities that lead to both the concrete and quality response that I have received. So, on these activities that take place on this matter. What I am not satisfied with is the answer to the question asked about the capitalisation of Energopetrol. I got an answer from the Privatisation Agency, I didn't get an answer from the Federation government, and the basic issues that are unresolved and burdensome with this issue concern the Federation Government and I remain at the request of that answer. So, from the government of the Federation, I get an answer on the question I've asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25983	Šefik Džaferović, comment on the response.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25984	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have received an answer to my asked question only from part of BiH institutions and entities. So, I was answered by the RS Justice Ministry, by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. I didn't get 12 answers from the BiH Federation Justice Ministry, but it doesn't matter, does it. This speaks of their relationship with our questions and initiatives. I would like to remind myself that my question has been focused on an initiative that should ensure that as much as possible the proportion of the ethnic representations of judicial staff in the BiH-wide area of justice as possible, and that is where the problem arises. The judge of the municipal or primary court, as they are already called, has a salary of around 2,400, 2,600 marks and there are no additional fees and then is the judge of Trebinj who, for example, is the judge of Trebinj. He was appointed Judge in Zenica, among other things, and by this principle in order to ensure proportionate ethnic representation, in fact, in the position of objectively having at least 1,000 marks less salary than the judge from Zenica who lives and works in Zenica, because he needs to be paid an apartment and should be supported for that month. And, of course, there are other combinations: a judge from Sarajevo who was appointed judge in Foca – because people started leaving those places. This is unfair and I think that if the state wants the principle of proportionate ethnic representation in the judiciary, because the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is working on it – it also respects this process without any increase in wages, so I do not advocate it, takes account of the costs of people who leave their places of residence, live and work in other places, doing this responsible duty, and therefore I, since this is now about these laws on salaries, ask the Council of Ministers to ask this question, not only in the judiciary but also in the SIPA, in the State Border Service, at the Directorate for indirect taxation, so these people who are sent from their places to work in other places, I think we should encourage this process, to look at this and to take appropriate measures, if it is necessary for Parliament to do their part of the work. If we don't, people will start coming back and then we haven't done anything with these reforms. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25985	Šemsudin Mehmedović, a comment also.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25986	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have received two answers to two of my questions and I would like to comment both. I'll be very brief. I have asked a question concerning the suspension of Deputy Director of the Border Police, Mr. Alagić Vahid, for the conduct of the investigation. And at one of the seminars, the attorney general has determined that every investigation ends within six months. And here, for years and a half as Mr. Vahid Alagić was suspended as Deputy Director of the Border Police and no response from the prosecution until today. So I'm going to repeat this question when it comes to asking parliamentary questions, but I'm going to repeat it to the D.A. because we're informally learning that the prosecution's answer has been written for several months but for certain or, I don't know, they don't go where they should go. And, secondly, my question, which I asked at one of the sessions of this House's Audit Office, which concerns classifications in paid classes, i.e. the application of the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, and the competent Ministry of Finance did not, i.e., the competent ministries did not bring in sublegal acts that should have been adopted in accordance with Articles 54 and 57, and Article 30 (1) of this law in terms of classification of interest, so we came to the situation 13 that the drivers of ministers had far greater salaries than drivers who were not drivers of ministers, which is certainly not acceptable, because it is a matter of discrimination of certain occupations, so I will repeat this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25987	Željko Kuzmanović, also a commissar of answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25988	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I am pleased with the speed of getting answers from competent institutions. In this case, it was the Ministry of Interior of the RS, the Ministry of the Interior of the Federation of BiH and the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, but not with the content of the response. Namely, of all three institutions, I received a negative response to the existence of paramilitary formations in the territory of the RS, i.e. on the entire territory of BiH, which would mean either that those institutions are not doing their job well or that a respected counterpart, Huskić, is using far more advanced intelligence techniques and methods than they are. On the aside, I must admit that I have great respect for my colleague Huskić and his constructive contribution to the work of this Parliament, but I am of the opinion that all MPs in this House should avoid statements of this type and work much more to preserve peace, spread tolerance, the adoption of laws that will allow for a functional economic and social environment, ultimately, and the provision of new jobs and, what the hell, and the return of a smile on the face of this troubled people. I think this guy's rhetoric should be left where she belongs, and that's early in the '90s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25989	Adem Huskić, commentary of the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25990	Thank you. I got the answer I asked the Council of Ministers, but the answer is only partial, because only the Federation Tax Administration provided an answer. The other authorities that could provide the answer are not. This is the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, Brcko District and the Directorate for Direct Taxation. And let me remind you that I asked, "How do foreign statesmen who remain in debt and flee from here, how does the state charge that debt?" And, I got it, I believe that colleagues and read, 'that there are 4,021 legal entities in the Federation whose owners or managers are foreigners, that most of these entities do not have enough property to collect claims and, with this regard,' said the Director, 'that the legislative authorities should pay particular attention to this phenomenon and launch an initiative for the adoption of regulations to establish tax collection mechanisms by foreign natural and legal persons. The tax administration, in this case of the Federation, is a body that only enforces tax and other laws, and sublaws which regulate the billing and payment of wages." What they would say to me there in the Donicians: "All the Muslims, and there is no stern." Everyone here is clean, people are working, making big commitments and getting out of the country, and we don't have the mechanisms to charge. And in this sense, I propose the following conclusion, as we can only propose to the Council of Ministers: 'It is up to the Council of Ministers of BiH to ensure the possibility of charging and requesting the state authorities of BiH from companies whose founders or owners are foreign citizens'. 14 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25991	Drago Kalabić, also a commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25992	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm only partially satisfied with the answer to my parliamentary question, and that is, I'm going to say again, "What will the Council of Ministers do about the decision of the Board of Regulatory Agency paying the Director-General of the Agency to increase by 30%?" The ministry replied here that it did not approve the payment, but does not speak further about the status of such a salary and would be very interesting to see at this point how much it amounts and what will be done. For that reason I will repeat because the essence of my answer was, so my question was: What is the Ministry going to revise such a decision, not to inform about something we already know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25993	And I still have Mr. Momčilo Novaković on board for a comment, I apologize, and Mr. Lozančić, this time I overlooked. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25994	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I asked the question: 'How many passenger cars were purchased in 2008 for the purposes of the chairman and ministers of the Council of Ministers, which marks are cars, from which suppliers, at what prices and conditions of payment?' I got answers for a number of ministries, I didn't get answers for the chairman, but what I could find out from what I got is that, let's say, car suppliers depend on who the minister is, or from Sarajevo, or Mostar, or from Laktaša. So, depending on which minister he was getting, which, I must say, is quite interesting to draw as a conclusion from this and clearly shows all the openness of the procurement process. The next thing I know from this answer is that the damage to Octavia ranges from 26,445,50 to 43,465,50 depending on who was obtained and depending on whether it is 1,9 TDI or 2,0 TDI, or whether the damage to Octavia is elegant. So the differences are, we see, up to some 16-17 thousand marks per vehicle. I could also conclude from this that Q7 was 129,850 KM for the Ministry of Security. The media said that for some 100,000, it cost Q7 more for the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I don't know exactly how much that is, but the media gave us that information. I didn't get an answer here, so in that part, I already said I didn't get an answer. 15 So, very interesting conclusions from this answer to the asked question can be drawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25995	I have Mr. Lozančić to comment on, and then we move on to new questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25996	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I received two replies from the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, one answer I set at session 47. 3., the second one I set up at session 48. 18. 3. I must immediately say that in this first question, I have asked a simple question in which I have informed the High Court and Prosecutor's Council that I, and I suppose, also from the means of information, have heard heavy accusations on the account of respected court and prosecutorial duties and profession in BiH, Mr Ize Tankić and Mr Branko Perić, former president and member of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. That the charges were made in Federal TV magazine “60 minutes” and the question was: “What has the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council done to protect the integrity of these high officials if the charges are not correct, and the accusations are difficult, that is, what will the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council do to sanction them if the charges are justified?” And the answer to this question I received in the follow-up. First I got an answer, 17. 4. in which I was politely informed: 'This way we would like to inform you that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council at one of the next sessions will discuss the above-mentioned parliamentary issue.' That means about a month and a half from the day I asked the question. And then they finally got me 23. 4, I guess, thinking that this is an answer to that question, have informed that according to Article 71 of the complaint or letter received in the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor, which lists violations of the duties of judges and prosecutors as well as information collected during the investigation – is a secret except for the Council at its request. So they further explained to me because it's a secret that they can't answer me, whether or not a disciplinary action has been initiated against those members of the judicial and prosecutorial office, that's one thing. And secondly, did they ask to protect them from, here's an unwarranted sort of accusation. Both represent a secret. And to me, it remains this way to say that at neither speed nor content, and especially with the situation in the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and in the judicial and prosecutorial organization, not that I'm not satisfied, but I'm very concerned. And the latest events that the public has been informed of through very annoying television footage of events in front of the highest court in BiH, when we faced the fact that you can be sentenced to 12 years in prison so you can walk freely wherever you want, talk about a very, very, very delicate situation in this very delicate area and... among the delicate, so to speak, the representatives of the third pillar of power, the judicial authority. To look for something new, to look for further clarifications, to look for a change in this state, I don't think it's through the parliamentary question enough, and I will most likely propose for one of the next session 16 to propose an initiative to open a quality debate about the situation in this area and to really try to make our contribution that no one can ever get any of these answers again and that no one will ever be in a position to determine what I just discovered for this very, very important institution of this country. The second question I have asked the same institution is I must only say the continuation of this first question in which they have, among other things, informed me that 'in the light of the rules relating to the court and the prosecution there is no explicit provision relating to the proportionate representation of the constituent peoples'. And I said, 'The foundations of which standards are excluded from all the top positions of Croatian nationality?' Maybe they think the answer on page three is here, where they say 'because of the lack of candidates, high-quality candidates from the order of a particular nation are sometimes unable.' I want to assume that they think that among the Croatian people, among the members of the Croatian people, members of the Croatian people in BiH, they are assessing according to their standards that there are no quality personnel and that this is an excuse why there are no representatives of the Croatian people at certain top positions in the state institutions, in the main positions in the judicial prosecutor's organisation. However, as they treat those who are already members, it may be better for Hrvat not to be among them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25997	This way we ended up commenting on the answers received. I have 14 MPs reported for new parliamentary matters and I appeal and ask you to focus on the question and not give too wide an explanation, to save time. Here you go, then, Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25998	I thank you, Chairman. For today's 52nd House of Representatives session, I've prepared some questions and I would ask for answers as follows... below. The BiH Council of Ministers approves each year a three-year public investment programme revised on an annual basis and moved year-on-year. Prepare to develop these programmes ahead and prepare and develop public investment programmes for BiH institutions, the Federation, RS and Brcko District, previously approved by each government individually. I ask the Council of Ministers, which means, "Did the Council of Ministers establish a three-year public investment programme and ask for the same to be delivered to me? Second question, Minister of Finance and Treasury. It is current and what can be heard means from the means of informing that BiH has more than a billion credit marks that have not been used and on which a tight interest is paid for the use of these funds. I ask the question and ask for information: 17 'With how many unused credit funds does BiH have, means how much is available, what are these funds intended for, how much is the interest paid, and what is the Council of Ministers doing... to spend?' Because we are witnesses that the funds are missing, the interest is growing daily on funds, the investments are stopped, and I find it inadmissible to keep inactive funds and pay for that even tight interest. And the third question is, let me ask BHRT leadership, and this is the following: that the public is familiar with the problems that BHRT faces regarding the intention to stop broadcasting of the TV satellite programme due to the failure of the account and the termination of the BHTV1 satellite broadcasting agreement towards the diaspora. The above-mentioned debt for 2007 and 2008 is 924 thousand marks. I ask the BHRT leadership question: 'How is the fee charged for receiving satellite viewing in the diaspora, how many cards per year since the establishment of this system has been sold and how much is the individual price?' At the same time, I ask the leadership: "What has it done and is anything planned to do to increase the charge?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u25999	Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26000	Thank you. I have a few short questions, I'll start.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26001	It's a few, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26002	A few. The first is the BiH Prosecutor's Office: 'From 7. 12. In 2007, he was suspended from the post of Deputy Director of the Border Police, Vahid Alagić, for conducting an investigation by the BiH Prosecutor's Office. The question is: At what stage is the investigation, and... when is the end of the investigation expected, since it is a man with a family, and that his working-law status has been unresolved and due to an ongoing investigation?' Second question to the Ministry of Finance: 'When will the application of Article 54(4) and Article 57 be carried out as well as Article 30 (1) of the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions?' And it is about the creation of sublegal acts in terms of methodology and classification of jobs in paid classes, as well as the criteria for improvement within the pay grade. 18 Third question to the Council of Ministers and the Central Bank of BiH, and to the Banking agencies of the Federation and RS: 'What are you going to do to prevent the behaviour of banks in BiH, which is contrary not only to market laws but immorally at the current moment in BiH?' Naima, banks in BiH, likely with the permission of entity banking agencies, are increasing interest rates, although the price of capital on the euro market has fallen. They even increase interest rates to already existing loans, and it is questionable to return them. And secondly, they increase fees for each transaction from 1 KM to 1.5 KM, i.e. 2 KM, which is a significant cost for each household when it is known that they are obliged to pay bills for municipal and other services. And I have one question, which I won't read, for the Ministry of Civil Affairs. It's actually about the implementation of the Drug Act, so there are a few questions, i.e. questions within this issue, so I'm going to deliver them in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26003	Thank you. Mehmed Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26004	Thank you, Your Honor. I have a very short question and also a brief explanation. The question is addressed to the Ministry of Justice, and it says: "What stage is the process of registration of the Union of Kinological Alliances in BiH?" Reason: Transparency International BiH recently addressed an association of citizens called the Union of Kinological Alliances in BiH that has been unsuccessfully trying to establish a legal right to be registered in the competent ministry for more than eight months. Furthermore, the letter states that in March 2007, the Ministry of Justice registered in just seven days the Kinological Association Association Association – the Union in BiH of nine natural persons as founders who were given the right to represent the state without proof that they are members of the FCI. In addition, the group mentioned has been given the right to live life under the statutes of that organisation at all functions. The letter also states that there was a lot of nepotism in this registration, as one of the founders of the brother of Minister Bariša Čolak. As you could hear here the nepotism mentioned, a phenomenon so far unknown in our premises, and therefore I expect... a quick reaction from the Ministry of Justice to possibly deny the possibility that something like this has been recorded with us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26005	I can't help it, you're just saying unknown, nepotism, aren't you? 19 Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26006	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have one question today and one parliamentary initiative. It is a question to the director of the BiH Direct Taxation Directorate: 'What was initiated by the change in the location of the customs terminal in the Great Kladuma from Agrommerc facilities to the facilities of a private company, owned by one of the leading criminals in the UN-San canton and a proven tax evasion officer who has done little in life in a legitimate way? In what way has the legal procedure of advertising the election of a new location been carried out? What is the logic of a typical state-owned institution leaving the premises in most state-owned areas, renting private-owned rooms and making the matter worse, so the arrangement is made with the owner who is the king of crime, working on black and secreting obligations towards the state? The customs terminal in Velika Kladusa was located in the buildings of Agrokomerca in Velika Kladuja. Recently, under strange circumstances, a change of location arrangement has been made, and for this the selected facilities of a private company owned by Farizetović Adem from Velika Kladude. It's a public secret in the Great Claudius that this operation cost several hundred thousand KMs this well-known buyer of civil servants paid for its projection and realization. The accommodation of a customs terminal in the Great Claudium in a man-owned facility is a classic example of organised crime and confirmation that criminals are the mezzanines of this country. It would be a tragedy for the administration of indirect taxation to record for its own purposes property and tax and generally business records of this man and to see what kind of business move he entered into with this arrangement with a man who has done little in life in a legal way. The Directorate for indirect taxation, there is nothing, sends a real European message to all those who still have some faith in the rule of law and faith that crime and corruption in BiH can be overcome! I ask for a detailed answer from the Directorate for Direct Taxation and ask that the Technical Service of the Parliamentary Assembly forward this issue to SIPA and OHR's Department for Combating Organized Crime, because this arrangement is certainly a respectable case for them. The initiative was addressed to the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees at the Council of Ministers. I asked a question in this home six months ago and warned about the violation of the elementary human rights of citizens Šumić Mehmed from Blagaj Japre, the municipality of Bosanski Novi – Novi City, whom the wife of the Plema, with the help of her relatives, Bajramović Esad from Bihac and Judge Karabegović Jasminka, declared dead. And since then, this man has been deprived of the elementary human rights, without identity, without home, broken by the burden of sickness and misery that are his daily life. On this issue, only the Bosnian Novi Municipality, which has done its part of the job, has notified the institutions, but nothing further has been done since then, and I have here instructed the Minister to form an ecupa or one man who will visit this man, inform me individually and the MPs of this home about a specific case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26007	Momčilo, is this some kind of replica? It's a mistake, isn't it? 20 Živković, MP's question.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26008	Thank you. Namely, although BiH cannot be praised by implementing and respecting international agreements, especially those with neighbours, it will obviously continue to be and continue in connection with this law respecting CEFTA. I'd still like to open up one question regarding the Sucession Agreement. According to my knowledge, BiH, according to a decision on the implementation of this agreement, namely Annex G of the Succession Agreement, some from other countries, were private persons, or legal persons, returned the property. I am not aware that the same happened with the property of BiH citizens and institutions, i.e. legal persons in the countries of the signatories of this agreement. I therefore refer the question to the Council of Ministers (I do not know which ministry is strictly involved). 'How much has the Council of Ministers got back in the countries of the signatories of the Agreement on the issue of succession of former SFRY, legal, natural persons from BiH?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26009	Hadji Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26010	The Honorable Presidency, a very short question for the Ministry of Justice, and I intend to refer the same question to the Constitutional Court. 'When, under the Constitution of BiH, a BiH citizen can be declared unsuitable to be chosen, what is it that goes without being able to choose?' I am saying this for the reason that we have the Law on the conflict of interest that this Parliament has brought after the imposition by the High Representative. We have a Central Election Commission appointed by this Parliamentary Assembly, where the Central Election Commission takes the right to interpret this law more for political reasons, not the way it is. Not going into whether he's in conflict, whether with... our Constitution itself, I personally have an example, I intend to sue this Central Election Commission chosen by this Parliament for the reasons that the gentlemen claim for political reasons that I am a member of a company assembly of which I own, a single-member society that according to the Company Act has no assembly, no board of directors, no board of directors, where I am aware of this law in 2005 and transferred my powers to a director with unlimited responsibility to manage this company, because I knew that I could not be a member under this law, nor could I be a signator. For that reason, I think I've been personally hurt by those people who came out in the media where it came out as a common citizen, and I'm simply going to make them, sue them, and ask for compensation for what they've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26011	Denis Bećirović. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26012	I have two parliamentary questions. I have asked the first question already here for the fourth month, which is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which is for different ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers. In fact, even though we need an answer from the Rules of Procedure within 30 days at the latest, here's the fourth month, I repeat, I have no answer to the question. 'How many General Secretariat of the BiH Council of Ministers bought cars... in the last year, specifically mentioned from 15 April 2008 to 15 April 2009? What is the exact price of bought cars, how to buy cars and justify buying these cars?" Unfortunately, MPs do not have an answer to that question, some media have come up with some knowledge and now whether it is more than half a million funds intended for this purpose, is whether, or perhaps the figure is over one million, we cannot argue because we do not have an answer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I wish again today, but today in oral form, I ask the people of the Council of Ministers a question. I only see Mr. Nović here, so I ask him the question: 'Can he give oral information which cars have been purchased by the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers from 15 April 2008 to 15 April 2009? What exactly are the prices of these cars, justifications, etc.? If not for everything, at least from personal experience here, if he can say something about it, since I remind you today, within the 24th point of the agenda, we are pleading as Parliament and this is therefore related to this 24th point. Are we going to form an investigative committee of Parliament that will come up with data when we can't come legally through the Rules of Procedure to the data on this issue? The second issue, at its 27th session, held on 2 October 2003, the BiH Council of Ministers adopted a Decision appointing the Director-General and two deputy director-general of the BiH Civil Aviation Directorate. The persons mentioned were appointed for a three-year period, which means they expired on 2 October 2006. The question is (as those persons still carry out the duties to which they were appointed by the 2003 Council of Ministers' decision, I ask that an answer be delivered, or an explanation in written form: 'How is it possible that the same and day-to-day functions are being performed, that is, what legal actions have been taken in this regard?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26013	Mr. Minister, about these personal experiences, let's go, let's move on. I'm moving Bešlagić. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26014	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues, respected guests, I must say that I have received an answer on the issue of bottled water from the Food Safety Agency and according to the report they prepared everything and directed to the Management Board of the Agency that should have considered these materials and that 20. 11. In 2008, they scheduled the session, but the session did not take place. I then came to the conclusion... that this relationship between the Agency's Management Board is knowingly obstructing the introduction of order on the bottled water market. And therefore I ask the following parliamentary question, I say to the Council of Ministers: 'Who is responsible and who has the authority to influence the functionality of the Management Board of the Food and Safety Agency and why? And why has the Agency's Management Board not held a session that should have been held for five months? 11. 2008 the year?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26015	No Niko's Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26016	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a brief question for the BiH Ministry of Security. At a time when even low-caliber firearms, when we still have a significant amount of weapons and various illicit types of military equipment in the possession of citizens and when different types of violence and crime are gaining momentum, I ask the question: 'The foundations of which and what standards are it forbidden for police officers in our country to carry official weapons outside of official working time, although they are in accordance with the applicable regulations on every occasion to intervene and act in accordance with police powers and what can be done to ban this non-bulous ban?'
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26017	Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26018	Thank you. I have two very short questions for the Department of Security. First: 'How many security agencies are in BiH, who are their owners and how many employees and how many weapons do they own?' The second question: "How many hunting associations are there in BiH, how are they founded, how many members are total numbers and how many and what weapons do they own?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26019	Remzija Kadrić. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26020	I thank you, Chairman. I'm going to ask a short question, given that I've been waiting for some questions of my own for a long time, you could say I've been waiting for years... to answer some questions. And I really envy some MPs who, as well as questions and answers, are going pretty well, they might get answers and... and before they... they ask a question. So, just one question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which reads: "Do entity authorities, governments, parliaments or the like. open their representations abroad and which one? On what legal basis, is this in line with the BiH Constitution, who is funding them and what is their activity abroad?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26021	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26022	Dear guests, since I am waiting as I am for Remzi to answer my asked question concerning the inflow of VAT funds this year so that we can see what our economic situation is and what state we expect from the economy, i.e. an inflow by the end of this year, and so this economic crisis that we don't want to or won't see we try to warn. But obviously it's not going. My parliamentary question refers to how much BiH institutions spent on paying rent, i.e. rent for a period of 1. 1 to 30. 4. In 2009? When will the new Council of Ministers building be moved into full capacity and redistributed the office in the BiH Parliament building?" I'm looking for an urgent answer to these questions, because I think, if they're being set up rationally, that is. move the business and office premises we have at our disposal, to reduce or stop the need to lease business premises, thereby also spending huge funds, which should be rerouted for more rational consumption. And in this crisis I'm talking about, it means we try to warn this crisis if we feel like we should do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26023	I thank the esteemed representative, Erić. The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26024	Dear Deputy Chairman and all present, and I have one question to ask the Council of Ministers. It refers to the application of the Payments Act, which is one conclusion of this House on the draft law on salaries in BiH's judicial institutions. Given the fact that the Law on Salaries and Compensations in BiH institutions, which excluded... BiH-level judicial institutions, reminds me of the fact that at the 29th session of the House of Representatives, on 14 May and 4 June of last year, the House adopted the following conclusion on the proposal of the competent commission: 'The Council of Ministers of BiH undertakes to draw up a draft law on salaries and other fees in BiH-level judicial and prosecutorial institutions and delivers it in parliamentary procedure.' I ask the Council of Ministers: "Are the preparations and activities for the drafting of this law ready?" And I ask the Council of Ministers to provide me with an answer. I hope that they will do so in line with the conclusion, so that I do not use my parliamentary law and propose an adequate law to pay employees in BiH's judicial and prosecutorial institutions to be in line with the overall economic situation and the average salary of their colleagues in the surrounding countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26025	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Prodanović. The next is distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26026	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed guests, I am actually repeating a question I asked on 24 September 2008 to the Council of Ministers and then to High Representative Miroslav Lajček, and the question was, "What will the Council of Ministers and High Representative do to finally resolve the damages of the Starovlah family's request by diplomatic means between BiH and NATO forces?" This time I only refer the question to the Council of Ministers, and not to the new High Representative. And I would just like to point out that, on 1 April 2004, SFOR soldiers entered the family home of priest Jeremija Starovlah and that they had done great physical damage to Jeremija and his son Aleksandar Starovlah with hard objects, mechanical tools and action of the human body. The injuries were such a character that she threatened to survive and thanks to the success and knowledge of doctors in Tuzla, as you know, they remained alive, where Mr. Aleksandar Starovlah, the son who was then 29 years old, remained 100% disabled and Jeremija Starovlah was 70% disabled. They filed a claim to SFOR for compensation, but they were rejected in a very unencumbered and strange manner, with an explanation that it was a military operation. It was their official position, however, but the consil of doctors of the Military Academy in Belgrade and the permanent court expert, Dr Hamza Žujo of Sarajevo, have noted: 'That the injuries were caused by blunt and highly swung mechanical tools, and that such injuries were caused by more than one hand bent into the fist, foot, elbow and/or punches with a bat, a rifle and similar blunt-forced objects, so that 25 were undeniably found not to have been caused by secondary effects of air pressure and explosions.' And without further ado, the fact is that this is where the Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms and many other UN conventions of 1946 have been violated. The Convention on Excessive Use... Force has also been violated. And the absurdity to be greater and what rights BiH citizens are talking about is the fact that in SFOR's response they did not have the right to appeal. So that the decision is final and that they have no right to appeal, which again violates the Convention on Human Rights and that I do not now list the members that I have listed here in this explanation. What is necessary is that the Council of Ministers, that the BiH state finds a diplomatic agreement with NATO and that the Starovlah family is bereaved after all that has happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26027	I thank the esteemed representative Dokić. The next is distinguished representative Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26028	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Parliament, question to the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Justice: 'What the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry are doing to arrange an area related to the numbering of items, so-called At least code?' I have an explanation here, since this goes in writing anyway, enough to buy some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26029	Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26030	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, before I ask a parliamentary question, I propose an initiative, which is that this item of the agenda is formulated as it should be: a point of answer to parliamentary questions and a point of parliamentary questions, and then no confusion, that is my initiative. I am asking a parliamentary question to the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, and I do not insist that I be answered today, but when they find it appropriate. The drug and medical law was published in "The Official Messenger of BiH" and it came into force 29. Seven. In 2008. This law forms the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH, as well as regulatory authorities in this area, and at the state level, which performs most of the jobs and tasks in the field of pharmaceuticals in the area of production and wholesale medicine and medical resources. With the aim of creating conditions for the start of work of the said Agency, the BiH Council of Ministers has made the following decisions and solutions: Decision on the initiation of work of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH, the Decision on the appointment of members of the Professional Council of the Medicines Agency, the Decision on the appointment of the Director of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH and the Decision on the appointment of the 26 Deputy Director of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH (I have to make a little progress here, and therefore, I am asking a question, that both the Director and the Deputy Director are not in a working relationship that cannot be only with the Head, they must be in a working relationship), as well as the Decision on the granting of financial resources for the work of the BiH Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Resources in 2009 of the 26th year. 3. In 2009. Despite the above, the Agency has not yet begun its work. The competent entity responsible for carrying out tasks from this area until the entry into force of this law shall not have the authority to continue acting in this area. Postponing of the Agency's work can seriously jeopardise the marketing of medicinal products in BiH, and prevent the availability of quality, safe and effective medicines for the population, as well as the availability of vital and essential medicinal products prescribed for the largest number of populations and for the most common diseases. Also, according to the Law on Radio and Nuclear Security of BiH (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’ 88/07), it was due to begin with the work of the State Regulatory Agency for Nuclear and Radiation Security. The entity regulations have ceased with... six months since the entry into force of this law, in particular 29. 5. In 2008, and thus the work of entity bodies in this area. The law states that the State Agency is taking over the tasks and tasks of protection... which so far have been carried out by entity bodies as well as the employees and documentation of these bodies. The BiH Council of Ministers was to sign an agreement with entity governments to address the issue of equipment and inventory, resources for work, archives, documentation, as well as official premises, staffed regulatory and entity bodies and inspectors, and according to Article 27 of the cited law. It is obvious that the establishment of this highly important state body in charge of nuclear and radiation security throughout BiH is being delayed. So I ask the questions, "Why is he late for implementing these laws?" That's the first question. 'When will full capacity begin with the work of this agency? And, lastly, ‘Can the Director and the Deputy Director exercise their responsibilities without being in a working relationship?’
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26031	I still have a registered Sadik Bahtić. Here you go, Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26032	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, colleagues from the executive government, the NGO sector, the media, I warmly welcome. I have two very short questions. The first question is for the BiH Council of Ministers: 'When will the Council of Ministers complete the process of appointment of directors in certain state institutions in which, due to the end of the term of office of the existing directors, they have long been performers of duties, making it difficult for them to work in full capacity. First of all, I think of the Directorate for European Integration, the Directorate for Direct Taxation, the RAC and others. I believe that our path towards the EU has slowed down because of these non-nominations and has an impact on the collection of revenue." Another question for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs familiar with the visits of certain high-ranking states to certain municipalities, where certain commissioners are discussed with very important state issues, the issue of gas pipelines, airports of Željeva, etc.? Some of the members of the acting presidency or the Council of Ministers or at least members of the Bureau. Have such visits been announced, and have they gone to regular procedures?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26033	This way we've exhausted point 2. MPs' questions and answers. Of course, Mr. Ajanović's suggestion will be accepted. Let's go to point 3. Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions It's about, please, a little attention, please, so it's about the law in the second reading. We adopted him at the 48th session. We got the report. As you have seen from the report, the Commission has adopted this law in the proposed text. At this plenary stage, we have no amendments. So, I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in a second reading. I don't have any reports. I want to say a few sentences. No Niko, just a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26035	Dear President Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26036	So, nothing much, I just wanted to point to one phenomenon that is kind of a practice because of future activities. In fact, it is increasingly happening, despite the fact that we have unique rules on how to make laws and regulations, etc., so there is a practice that one law puts the other law out of force, we put certain members out of the strength of other provisions, etc. And I'm afraid this way, if we continue this trend, we'll make one legal confusion that will be very difficult to cope with. So, I invite all of us, and I suggest that we get a good look at what's going on, what are the consequences of the laws we're proposing and how to harmonize all of this. Let's say in this law: therefore, Article 37(2) has been amended, which regulates the adoption of specific rules for establishing an internal control system for each of the budget users, and instead of these 28 provisions, we have prescribed the termination of the BiH Treasury Act, etc. So, I'm afraid we'll have some kind of problem. And I want to point out that I have not acted in amendment because it is indeed a technical error that should be made before the publication if this law is successful, and I hope it will, according to the indicators, also on this commission, etc. So, here it is said that the Law on the financing of BiH institutions is published in "Official Messenger 64/2001", meaning the number 01 which is not true, because this law is published in "Official Journal 61/2004", so not in 2001, but in 2004 and this should be taken into account when, I say, it is regulated in a technical sense. If there are no more reports, this is how we ended the discussion of point 3. Let's go to point 4. Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Lawyerry It's also about the law in the second reading. We adopted him at the 45th session. And there was an extension of the deadline, and the College approved it. We received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission on 9 April this year. The Commission adopted this law in the proposed text, and in the plenary phase, Mr Halilović, so to speak, reiterates, or defends nine amendments to this law. I'm opening a debate. I have a registered Mr. Šefik Džaferović, I assume, in the position of the chairman of the Constitutional Commission. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26038	Yes, that's right, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing we haven't done when it comes to this law and what kind of patience we haven't shown in the Constitutional Commission and what we haven't tried everything to come up with a solution that would be widely accepted. Unfortunately, we failed. This today is a positive report by this commission, but given that colleagues from the RS entity did not support it, I suppose today this law can unfavorably end. I have stood up to say one thing about the behaviour of the Ministry of Justice of the entities of the RS and the Bar of the entity, because from what I've gained as an impression is approximately: there may be reasons for this law, but we simply don't want that law. We're not just going to organize a state-level lawyer, and that's an argument. That's all I could see. Despite the clear need for BiH lawyers to join the European Association of Lawyers, because only institutions organised at the state level can access that association, regardless of the need to establish one legal code or at least the elements of the legal code for all BiH lawyers, and without need, it is clear that the legal tariff should have some common elements. I, for example, read in the paper the other day that some lawyers in the event of a dispute in Chelić after several debates over that federal barrister's tariff on several 29 hearings had been issued by a million marks, and the dispute was worth eight million marks. Okay, that's now changed to the intervention of one of the representatives in the Federation Parliament, and now it's different. But regardless of the reasons that point to the need to have BiH's Bar Association, which at least would be the Union of Entity Bars -- no one is shutting down anything. So today we're in a position to simply not have that law because we don't want that law. Now, we'll see what the results of the vote will be today. I have the right to tell you that I am thinking to colleagues who want, therefore to lawyers who want to be such an institution and who want to be joined to the European Association of Lawyers – I propose one very simple thing. The BiH Law Chamber, in principle, of the continuity of BiH institutions, has never formally been shut down. I think it will come to the situation, in this state of affairs, that this institution continues, so its existence, until it is regulated by the regulations as prescribed by the Constitution, because I think lawyers who want to be tied to the European Association of Lawyers can't be punished for what someone says: I just won't do it, and there's nothing you can do! That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26039	Let me explain. I've been forced to set off an alarm on the quorum for a moment, and I'm asking you for patience, every moment happens that we're on the border or we're almost losing it. So we're moving on. Are there any further reports to discuss this agenda item? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on point 4. Proposed law on law of law. Let's go to point 5. Ad. 5. Proposal for a framework law on the basis of scientific research activities and co-ordination of internal and international research co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina At the 50th session, we adopted this law in our first reading. We received a report from the committee in charge on 24 April. You have seen that the Commission has adopted five amendments and ultimately supported the bill proposal, including these amendments that have become an integral part of the law. In the plenary phase, MP Mirjana Malić defends nine amendments. I'm opening a debate. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26041	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we have supported this law on the Constitutional Legal Commission, among other things, and because of a reasonable relationship, both amendments and the Registrar, Mr. Nović. Some of the amendments have been accepted, some amendments have not been accepted. There are amendments that I too would accept and many other members of the Commission, but their acceptance would probably put a complete law at risk. And that was why we went by this rational method to correct the law as many as 30 there is agreement on the basis of the amendments submitted we come to some text that can be accepted in Parliament, and we did not accept amendments for which, I repeat, some are acceptable to me and to other members of the Commission, but the law would not have passed after their adoption. So, we have defined ourselves for this time that we still have something that can pass here in the BiH Parliament today. This is a very important area. I think it's important that we get the law today, so thank Bog, it's time ahead of us, we build it up to the need, we follow its realization, so the most important thing is that we started in this area. And here, once again, I want to point out, I do this every time because this commission is meeting with a number of representatives of the Council of Ministers – so one really professional relationship between Minister Nović and I will always say it while such relations exist, not only from him but also from all the other ministers. This is the way to treat Parliament and its working bodies. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26042	Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26043	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, as you said, my colleague Malić is officially absent today and I have the approval to say something on her behalf about these amendments. First of all, what they're reflecting and fully saying is the SDP Club's position. I would also like to repeat something and say what my colleague Džaferović here said about a very correct approach to making this law itself and his debate on the competent commission, in this case to the Constitutional Legal Commission. Some of our amendments have been adopted here, but we felt both necessary and correct to try to say something here in the House today about the intensity of these amendments that have not been accepted on the Commission. I will not waste your time explaining individually these amendments because they have one common feature. It is about trying to fabricate in this bill the budget financing of scientific research within BiH. The bill, as you can see, provides funding at BiH level for scientific research activities, or projects, only when it comes to international projects, i.e. international co-operation. We believe that by adding these amendments to this existing law, we would contribute..., let me say, the awareness of the general consciousness in BiH that our scientific research activity is negligible and inadmissiblely low, that given the state structure that we have this jurisdiction is given to entities and cantons and we have a situation that there are no budget items for such things in many cantons. We therefore think that this would raise awareness and contribute to making significant projects that will be and should be in BiH at state level can be financed from the state level. Of course, that would also give us one, to say the credibility for the participation of our scientific and research personnel in international projects. It is amazing that the state is ready to co-operate on international projects and is unable to support projects within BiH. 31 I would also like to stress to these amendments that we are in no way violating the existing competences of the constitutional, from canton to entity and state, but only, I say, this is how we want to include these amendments in the framework law to encourage one consciousness and the need for a far more serious approach to funding research work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26044	Thank you. I have a registered Mr. Sefer Halilović here, and he probably informed me that he would come out and we're coming back to the limit of the quorum. Please be patient and alarm one to get there... to get those coming out back. Here, I'll say a few more sentences.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26045	Mr. Belkić's chairman, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26046	I really do have a kind of need to in some way invite us all to push this project through to the end and repeat what you know more than you do, so this law makes a very important step in regulating scientific research activities, and it is particularly important, something Mr. Križanović said about this, which is what the state is involved in providing the necessary financial and technical assistance to access to foreign funds and EU dedicated funds. Of course, what Mr Križanović was saying was that the amendment by Mrs Malić was heading towards and financing from their own resources, budgets, is absolutely acceptable and understandable and this is a sign of the state's relationship and understanding of the importance of this whole thing, but obviously, on the Commission, Mr Džaferović was talking about, the matter could not agree. I think it is also important to point out that this law and defines the adoption of an important document, namely strategy and the development of science. It is also important to define and establish the Science Council as an advisory and expert body to monitor the situation in the fields of science and technology and it is also important to introduce a scientific information system with a view to systematic monitoring of the recording and improvement of the situation in science and technology. So these are really reasons that should be beyond any other thinking and that would have to put us in a position to actually adopt this law today. Regardless, so I absolutely understand Mrs. Malić's intention and I support, I support, I will support the amendments, but regardless of the outcome of the vote to establish this project with a clear perspective and opportunity to discuss this aspect of what Mr. Križanović was talking about in some future time. Thank you. ... Mr. Momčilo Novaković. [[microphone is not enabled]] 32
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26047	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, of course, absolutely understand the need to pass one of these laws, namely to regulate this area, given above all the requirements that go towards BiH and given some opportunities that BiH can use if it defines this area, here is how it is proposed here. But what is also a fact is that the procedure for the adoption of this law does not respect the BiH Constitution. Namely, for the application of Article III 5a), the BiH Constitution was the necessary agreement of the entities, given that the transfer of competencies in part of this area from entities to BiH level is evident. That's what I was talking about on the Constitutional Commission. I couldn't stand the amendments because I don't think they even make sense, given the position I'm talking about right now, and that any revision of the text cannot change the position that it is about transferring competence from entity to BiH. For these reasons, I have not submitted amendments, although of course there are certain and illogicalities here, especially in the selection of the Science Council, but here I am saying, since I have not submitted the amendments, I will not go further into the analysis of the text of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26048	Thank you, Mr. Novaković, for reminding us of these things. Here you go. Mr. Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26049	Thank you. I didn't come out here to argue with Honorable colleague Novaković for the same reason we worked together here in the past, and it seems to me that the assessment of the weight or the possibility of carrying out a transfer of jurisdiction is very variable. In some legislative projects, it was an undisputed transfer of jurisdiction, an undisputed transfer of jurisdiction, unlike where it is very controversial whether it is even a transfer of jurisdiction when the law itself is called the Framework Law on Fundamentals and the coordination of BiH's internal and international research co-operation. At the same time, we have not yet come to the conclusion that every legal project must go through a committee that has not been established anywhere in the RS to talk about whether or not it is a transfer of competence and that strictly principles that have not been established in the National Assembly of the RS are being followed to make it known. I have not received any memo from anyone from the RS that this is a transfer of jurisdiction, I would like to see any memo from any official institution from you that it is for you to transfer jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26050	Mr. Kalabić, also a replica. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26051	Thank you. Well, here is the replica of Mr. Novaković and you, too, Mr. Chairman, since the outcome of the vote on amendments is important and the outcome of the vote depends on how we will be determined under the law, although you have called in the discussion and if you adopt amendments, which I can understand, but I am also saying our position, means that there will be a vote on amendments that this is about Mr. Novaković's discussion. Only by adopting these amendments could he possibly have arguments for what he says and what he mentioned by fellow Živković. Mr. Novaković has just insisted in earlier discussions on these three terms, meaning framework, coordination and this international story, I think, that only in another situation would it look like what would be a classical transfer of jurisdiction. I don't think those qualifications stand here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26052	Here's my short line.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26053	Chairman, Mr. Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26054	I've spoken here on this subject on several occasions, I'll remind you briefly. So, I absolutely understand the right of every MP to consult with whoever he believes should be consulted, but the BiH Parliament has no obligation or responsibility for any of the views of such a species that are being held here to respect. So every MP has the right to follow it, it's his thing etc., but it can't be a practice or obligation of this Parliament here. So when it comes to amendments, I said what I said. Of course, we'll see at the vote how things are going, but I think this law should be passed and I can't take advantage of one chance, so the entity ministry is mentioned, etc., I want to publicly say now that if there is no visa liberalisation in BiH, that citizens who don't have the opportunity to travel should go to Džerald Selman, so an entity minister, who says that the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters should not be brought to state level, because according to his assessment, these things are regulated in RS legislation, etc. So, I publicly say that one of the culprits for not introducing a visa-free regime will be Džerald Selman, justice minister in RS Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26055	Here you see, if you want us to support some law, then it's enough either to have that institution's headquarters in Banja Luka, or RS, or to call it indicative, no matter what it says inside. It's enough that he's called an indicative and he's acquired all the conditions to be accepted by, let's say, those who in the RS should say whether or not something is treated as a transfer of jurisdiction. 34 I have expressed my position, not the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So I expressed my position as I have so far expressed my views, not the views of any RS government. So sometimes when someone writes the following report under the regular number 69, they will write this law, as the 68th law there wrote, and under 69 it will likely be this when someone else writes a report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26056	Thank you. Drago Kalabić, replica also.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26057	I must take another chance and replicate to Mr. Chairman and Mr. Novaković. I thought it was the party's position -- if you're building up -- because I know the last days have been fierce attacks on us from the Democratic Party in RS that we have no understanding for the BiH state and that we should have more understanding. This is the opposite of me today, I mean, I've been following your party attitudes, as far as it goes. And as for this, Mr. Chairman, I don't think Minister Selman has anything to do with it because it's quite contradictory what you said. This is where decisions are made in this House, and I don't see how you've come to Mr Selman's influence directly on making decisions in this House. And I fully support what you've said, it's a sovereign right here for MPs to decide. It is also their sovereign right to consult with whoever they want and, as one may have an objection to this kind of consultation, so it is inappropriate pressure on the sovereign right of MPs to make whatever decision they make here - the decision is valid, the decision is legitimate, the decision is sovereign. So, no matter how much someone doesn't like her, which I also allow, it might be a little easier for us here to blame Mr. Selman for some other circumstances, but I don't think he's the one who should, yeah...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26058	It's not about taking the blame. I agree with you now that MPs are sovereign here, but there are a lot of papers that come here with the signatures of individual and ministers, here are quoted etc. So that's what I'm talking about, these things need to be left at the door, and here to make a sovereign decision. Is Mr. Novaković, this is the second, third, is the second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26059	Here, I'll spend it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26060	Spend it, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26061	this business opportunity.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26062	Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26063	So, first of all, I would like to thank these administrative services for writing on this table, which means that I have expressed my views on what I was talking about right at the beginning, no governments but my views and no parties, but my views. Of course, I feel sorry for a colleague who can't speak his mind, but the party's views, they're limited in action, but what do we do, you know, everyone chooses.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26064	It's a matter of decision. Here you go, Mr. Živković. He should get out of the game like you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26065	Thank you. In fact, as far as I am aware of through people who understand better in this matter than I do, with whom I have consulted, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is in charge of passing laws here in the BiH Parliament, but the laws that are in its jurisdiction. Because it is interpreted that the BiH Parliament can bring all sorts of things, I think it is wrong, and that the BiH Parliament can only pass laws that are in its jurisdiction, which is written in the BiH Constitution. For this reason, we are constantly having a dilemma about whether something is the responsibility of this Parliament or whether it is in the jurisdiction of the entity. However, I would like to give you an honest introduction to the provision of Article III under 4.. koordinacija: "The Presidency can decide to facilitate co-operation between entities in things that do not fall within BiH's jurisdiction as foreseen here in the Constitution." When did anyone from the Presidency, at any time, try to establish this coordination and try to talk to entities about matters concerning the transfer of jurisdiction? Obviously, we constitutionally have not yet taken advantage of all the possibilities that are open to us, and we are constantly complaining that this Constitution is imperfect.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26066	I'll help you. The presidency is in the period 2001. In 2002, five such coordinations were launched. Let's move on, Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26067	I thank you, Chairman. I am in preparation for this item of the agenda, looking at the Commission's report and the adoption of five amendments, I appreciated that I should compare those data with what was adopted, in relation to what we talked about here in the first reading, and I think that what the Commission has come out with the view that five amendments can be accepted and that at this point they are possible in the Parliamentary Assembly, I think we should give us a reason to support this law, because these questions, frankly, here the previous replicas that have been led I can't understand because science can't possibly be placed under some kind of an entity, the nations are small for scientific research. You see what's going on today: the whole world is looking for a disease vaccine against this pig virus, as it's called. 36 So let's not, I really can't understand the story of the one that wants to put scientific research into some frames, so they're even national, I think they're small for them. In this sense, BiH, I think that people who are dealing with science... should be able to apply to funds from European funds, that our scientists should be involved in world events, that they need institutions that can do this, and in that sense I think we also need that information system centre and that we need a Council for Science and that we
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26068	Please, quorum, quorum!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26069	... definitely needs a science development strategy in BiH. For these reasons and many other reasons, it could be stated what could improve this law. I believe that this reach that we have reached with the law and with the Commission's opinion that we should accept and give us the passage of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26070	Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26071	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to express my satisfaction once again in the parliamentary procedure of the draft framework law on the foundations of the scientific activity and the coordination of the internal international research co-operation of BiH, and I hope that, after this debate, we will adopt this law, especially if we remind ourselves of Article 6 of this law, which says that science and technological reasons are of the highest priority for BiH, entities, cantons and Brcko District, and that it is an integral part of an international, particularly European scientific space. My motive for reading and reminding Article 6 of this law is the fact that in the pre-war period we had 0.5% separation for science, and that in the post-war separation period for science we reduced to 0.03%, which means we have a few dozen times less separation for science, and if this is a way to get conditions and bring science to a very respectable level in BiH from the aspect of the state, I think we should support it, especially when we have in mind the fact that in fact this law is necessary to the academic community, in fact high education, given the very many problems in the functioning of the academic community itself, by the lack of such a legal act. Which would be legal and sublegal acts that would in fact in some way help the academic community to function, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, absolutely contribute to improving the quality of the functioning of the academic community within the academic community itself, and that would result in good preconditions that we have good teachers who would then be in a sort of peritarian system in higher education. These would be primarily the Regulation on the classification of scientific areas, fields and branches, then the Regulation on minimum conditions for selection in scientific titles, and the Regulation on minimum conditions for carrying out scientific research and scientific research. 37 I responsibly argue that without these sublaws within the academic community itself in all of BiH there are many problems where actually people who are referenced from the aspect of the information base are sometimes brought into the position of the self-will of certain members of the academic community who are not referenced. In this way, people within the academic community would be brought into equal and equal status, especially if taking into account the fact that the creation of a single database would make available absolutely all references to members of the academic community, which would in fact lead science to one quality level, to one transparent level and to a level, above all, to quality management within the academic community itself. So much I would actually appeal to colleagues who have a dilemma about whether to pass a framework law like this. I think one of these laws is imperative for BiH and the academic community and we're actually going to have a lot of good preconditions for a good functioning of science and the academic community as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26072	Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26073	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I answered at the last minute that here I am saying what I think about the question: adopting or not adopting the law, and I don't want to get involved in the controversy, and I won't replicate anyone. I'd say just a few findings. The state of science is for every criticism. I'd say it only exists on an individual level. International co-operation, and the chance of science in BiH is precisely in international co-operation and organisation to connect with global projects to use the Brussels funds that exist, so if this law will only make it possible, I am here to bring it today and declare it. On the other hand, it provides a better internal organization. What we have today in the area of higher education, and always high education related to science – is disastrous. And if there are no steps in all those who are in charge of higher education and do not make commitments among all those in charge of this area, this situation will be more catastrophic, and in 15 years we will only feel the devastating consequences of the present situation. Look at the way it comes to doctoral thesis, how it comes to master's degree, not to mention diplomats about completed colleges, and all of this is hidden under the Bologna umbrella and the Bologna process. I would say that at this point in BiH we have a state of abuse of what is called the Bologna process. But you could talk a lot about this, I don't want to bother you. So here's my message is to be careful about the amendments, not to say something that would have put the basic laws and what's been put into question so far, and that we're really going to take that step to get this through, to give this area a better organisation at all levels. Thank you very much. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26074	When it comes to umbrellas, except for this Bologna, there is another far more dangerous one: the corruption of the umbrella. Mehmed Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26075	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have no illusion that in my brief discussion I will convince a part of the people who have a dilemma whether to vote for this law or not. I have no illusions for the simple reason that our reality is such that, if we did some sort of work analysis in, say, two or three years, we could come to one conclusion that in fact we never at Parliament have been able to have any discussions here... to convince each other of something, because we mainly came with impaled views. For this reason, I would only make one appeal here: to adopt this law, regardless of which it would be greatly improved with the proposed amendments, but I speak on behalf of young people who are employed at higher education institutions in this country, who meet with one problem that a significant segment of higher education is completely neglected, it is scientific research work which is an inseparable segment of higher education, and it is certain that no matter how much this law has a rather unscathed title, it has a title that it has exactly to make a compromise out of trying to adopt this law and I call on you, through this through all MPs, to make a maximum effort to declare this law, that we will have the opportunity to repair it, but surely one thing is that if we are to defend ourselves behind the transfer of jurisdiction or anything we will do today, a great sin against a population who is employed by high-school institutions in this country. And once again, a real appeal to do everything to make the law the way it is, regardless of its inadequacies, today, it will certainly be a win for the whole country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26076	Here's what I'm doing here. I'm closing the debate on item 5 because I'm out of press releases. We're going to point six. Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Postings of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) It was adopted at the 46th session in the first reading. We had an extension of the deadlines for the report. We received the latest report on April 24th. As you have seen from this report, 14 amendments have been adopted and they have become an integral part of the proposed law. In the plenary phase, the amendment was repeated, i.e. the defences of the amendments, Milorad Živković and Šemsudin Mehmedović. Milorad Živković three and Šemsudin Mehmedović five. I'm opening a debate. 39 Sadik Bahtić reported himself, I assume, in the position of the President of the Commission, is he?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26078	I am not the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26079	Branko Dokić, is Branko Dokić? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26080	I'll try very briefly. Here I am using this opportunity to thank the College for having the understanding to give the Commission one longer term. The Commission has indeed made efforts to come up with concerted views before this parliament, which would guarantee that the law can pass. I'm not sure that, let me put it this way, we've used all the possibilities for it or, rather, I'm not sure we've made it to the end, but the effort has been enormous, we've had several meetings with this committee and with the representatives of the Ministry of Communications and Transport. As you've seen, we've had a lot of amendments and, in the end, I must say, the Ministry of Transport and Communications has made an effort to find solutions that could be acceptable. I want to remind you of the fact that about the law that we adopted in the first reading that it was all agreed but that there were amendments, and that was a lot of amendments, which then brought it into question. And that's why this coordination was needed. I know it's been done and coordinated with entities, that it was done by the Ministry, so they didn't complain this time to do what needed to be done. At the last meeting of the Commission, not as adopted, the amendments supported by the Ministry of Communications and Transport were largely adopted and adopted by the majority of votes and one amendment which could bring about, or the issue which the amendment is dealing with may call into question the adoption of this law or its refusal. And it's about amendments that talk about inspection services. The Ministry was not committed to amendments to one or the other, there were more of them, but gave some of its formulation, and this formulation was given to the Commission by a majority. But if you went through such a formula, it's my guess that the law wouldn't go through. Therefore, it is my suggestion that if there is a business space, the business opportunities to postpone a statement on this law and amendments for another 15 days until the next session to allow MPs, meanwhile, to reach out to those in their contacts and communications with those who know this area and to, as I say, make it easier to give up whether they will support or refuse anything. I don't think it would be bad to try to use this effort for at least the following reason: the law we passed in the first reading by all the participants who did it, and when I say all of them, I mean Srbin and Bošnjak and Hrvat, it's a general finding that it's better than the law we have now. If we take that through the 14 amendments adopted and corrected, then it seems to me that it would be a shame for one or possibly two questions about which no agreement could be reached, it would be a shame if the law were rejected. Let me remind you, a few years ago we passed this law, so we evolved, so here we go with the new law. So here's my recommendation: if there's a chance that we can create space to get some more consultations and 40 to take another step, so if that's not enough, then someone else will consider it again and try to fix it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26081	Here, Mr. Dokić, I encourage you to make a proposal for that conclusion in terms of postponing the plea now in the context of this debate, so we can have it when we get to the very act of voting. I now have Sadik Bahtić, I have Milorad Živković, as far as the applicants are concerned. Here you go, Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26082	Thank you. I'll do it for a while. I support this means Mr Dokić's proposal, but I believe we are not ready, we already have an existing law that is not implemented. It's not being carried out exactly because we don't have these inspections, we don't have surveillance, we don't have who's going to carry it out. And now we don't need any law unless we have inspections, state-level surveillance. So the law has nothing to do with it. Well, then I think this is a better valid, existing one. This law means we need it for that reason and another reason is the unregulated postal market. Now we're totally unsettled, we've got a lot of private companies, I'm in favour of loyal competition, for privates. However, these private companies have no licenses. They don't pay anything to the Post Office. The only thing they pay, these are three state operators and the postal transport agency is basically financed by the donations of three operators, instead of self-financing from licences. I know exactly how these private companies work. I'm not up for it. Maybe tomorrow I'll be that private company. But if they don't have licenses, they keep all the workers black, some couriers, and they process only the city. In the city there's 100% profit, and they don't go around town anywhere where there's loss, and the state operators have. The liberalisation of the market, yes, and I'm up to it and that makes us bound by 2014. We in state operators have over 5,000 workers, have big profits, are all registered workers, pay all taxes, contributes; these privates, here I have a feeling with some amendments to go on to strengthen those who work black at the expense, and to weaken state operators. I'm up for it, so without this mechanism, we don't need the law, we're better off with this existing one. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26083	Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26084	At first, one small replica. Namely, the task force to whom I must congratulate at the work that they have done (these are all professional people) also sat what Mr. Bahtić was talking about, the honourable MP and fellow Members, tried to fix. And they came up with a particular draft of this law that came to us in procedure, passed through the Council of Ministers and came into procedure. And 41 you will see in their arguments, which they have proposed to amend and supplement this law in order to make it more effective, so that a lot of things will change, so that we and the Commission will come and try to fix what the task force has agreed, and thus we are in a position to bring to the small door certain provisions which would not have passed the law or in the last term when I raised my hand to adopt it if they had been placed. Therefore, we obviously have an attempt to bring back something that would not have passed for the first time, and the law would not have been passed if it had been in the bill of law in the last term. So I ask you, we have two or three ways to get out of this situation, to do what Mr. Dokić has suggested, to return the law to its initial position in terms of what the working group has proposed, but what the working group has agreed to. And third, let's try to get the Council of Ministers to say: those amendments that do not concern themselves, especially Articles 23 and 24 that are acceptable, which do not strike at the heart of the law, and that corrects what the task force has done, and thus we can have a better and more effective law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26085	I was wrong. We still have Remzi Kadrić, in the extensions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26086	I thank you, Chairman. So, I, as someone who has invested 17 amendments, have been to this committee's session to explain a few things. So, this commission accepts one principle: that what is acceptable to the Ministry will also be acceptable to this commission. I am indeed of my many amendments which... have not been accepted by the Ministry, because I have respected this principle that what is acceptable to this commission, acceptable, which is acceptable to the Ministry, is also acceptable to this commission. So here, what Sadik Bahatić was saying, that's a principle question. So, if there is a Law on the Post Office of BiH, there needs to be someone who will carry out inspection, control of the law, control of the implementation of the law. And why it bothers that there is also an inspector at BiH level who will control the implementation of this law and which is why here also in Article 24, which was the working group, which was attended by the intervention and the honourable MP, Vice-President Živković, to make this Article 24. The bill deletes, this administrative oversight of the implementation of this law and the rules adopted under this law, the respected Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH. Which is why it bothers, which is why he proposes to abolish this law, which is why both the task force and the Ministry have proposed. For these reasons, I'm not running away from delaying a plea, but really, about these things of principle, we should have clear opinions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26087	A little replica, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26088	I don't think we really need to raise tensions about things that are clear. So, the member Mr. Kadrić spoke of was not in line with the task force. He came later. I ask the question why and how to come later. At the same time, with lawyers dealing with 42 of this problem, it is said that there is no possibility that the inspection can be divided into whether it is administrative, whether it is supervisory, etc. There's only one inspection. It's impossible to separate it into three parts. I didn't make it up. So she didn't adopt the task force and it's impossible to separate inspection surveillance and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26089	A slightly larger replica, Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26090	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Okay, I can't accept the explanation we had. On several occasions, it has been repeated on the Commission itself that as soon as the law is passed, it is necessary to establish an inspection service to control the law. I wouldn't remind you now and return to how many laws we passed without the adoption of inspection services. I have to say that there was one mood to find a compromise and it seems to me that this compromise in that sense should be sought. The inspection services are generally at entity level, but this is also about international traffic and there have been attempts to say, here, international traffic will be controlled by the state. And there was a formula for customs authorities to do that. Why customs? ... does not form a special service,... which is, behold, I will now quote to you 'the regulations of the BiH Customs Policy Act, the Official Messenger of BiH No. 63/04 and 57/08, regulation and surveillance of imports and exports of postal shipments imported, or exported from the customs territory of BiH, as well as those transited across the area." So, I quoted, I pulled out, this isn't my interpretation. And you have those who say, if a special inspection service were to be formed now, that it would be parallelism and that would threaten, that, as I say, there would be a dispute between customs services, and this question is defined, as you can see, by this law. So once again, I think we should talk about it all here for another 10-15 days, so try to find a formula that would be acceptable. Thank you, and I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26091	Replica, Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26092	Oh, this is just for the sake of clarification. So, the Ministry of Transport and Communications has made further clarifications on these amendments, to Members 23rd and 24, MEPs Milorad Živković and Remzija Kadrić. So they gave and this is acceptable and they remove these dilemmas about inspections, about administrative oversights, etc. I think this is an extra opinion. Here, there are the representatives of the Ministry, let them give their opinion, but this is acceptable and in such a way I really don't think there's any reason not to accept these amendments and this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26093	An inspiration for Šemso Mehmedović. I mean these replicas and this. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26094	I'm sorry to pick up, but I'd like to ask, I didn't sign up for a replica, I applied for a brief discussion. In fact, counterpart Dokić suggested that this all be returned to the Commission, i.e. you propose a conclusion in this regard. So I ask you to give us a precise definition: is this meant for the Commission to consider any renewed amendments or to make a new solution that could possibly be acceptable and that could pass when voting in this House. Therefore, I have also renewed several amendments and I want to talk about this law as a whole because the Commission has also made, unfortunately, several failures that do not apply to us, because in some ways public operators prefer to private operators, which may be good at this point, but how long, so as to open up the possibility to bring the full text of this law into line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26095	Here, Mr. Mehmedović, I will take my own right because I have already received a written proposal for a conclusion that we would consider when we vote, before we enter into the law, so: 'A statement on the Post Law proposal is postponed to create an opportunity to submit new amendments in relation to Article 118(3)'. (So, new circumstances etc). So, what Mr. Dokić was talking about. In one word, to try to find a way out of this situation, which is by some estimate of such a nature that, as things stand now, the law could not pass. Here it is. Does Mr. Dokić have another replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26096	I don't know if it's a replica or an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26097	Explanation, answer, good.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26098	Yeah. I did not propose to return it to the Commission. I don't think the Commission is capable, that it's exhausted all possibilities. My proposal is to create an opportunity for MPs to have a conversation with competent people in this area and the proposings of those amendments that have been renewed to eventually find some formulation that might then be accepted. I think the Commission has exhausted all possibilities and I really don't know if we could be new as the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26099	That's it, we've done it before. We've had situations with some other laws, we've delayed statements, we've opened up space, etc. We'll see, you'll all be able to see that conclusion, think about it, and set yourself up. 44 I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate on point 6. A bill of mail. I believe that the Ministers present here, Mr Nović and Mr Ljubić, know that they had the right and opportunity to report at any moment, but I did not consider it necessary for me to call you. So you didn't have any needs. Okay. We're going to point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) We adopted him at the 44th session in our first reading. We got the report on April 24th. The Commission has adopted the draft law with two amendments which have also become an integral part of this law, and we do not have amendments in the plenary phase. So, I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't have any reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26102	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I'll take the opportunity to say something about this law and prepare myself, I've made a copy, so I've got the old law and I've got the new one. And what I want to say in this very short presentation is: when the basic reason is compared and it explains the basic reason why we need to pass this law, why we should not change it, that it primarily shortens certain deadlines and defines certain procedures in which the right way is finally achieved is the signing and publication of an international contract and when I have dealt with this chronology and the deadlines that are in the new law – I do not think the right goal has been achieved. In that sense, I am sorry that there is no one from this ministry to hear the thoughts, because I have compared Article 6 and Article 22 and 27 that define those deadlines. So, from the initiative to adopt an international contract, the agreement takes more than 60 days until the moment of the negotiations. Negotiations regarding the agreement are not known how much, that is, the framework, cannot even be set up depending on the contract it is. However, it means that from the negotiations concluded, it is 165 days from the signing of the agreement to the publication. So, the initiative goes to the ministry, the ministry goes to the Ministry in 45 days, and after 15 days goes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, after 30 days goes to the Council of Ministers, after 60 days goes to the Presidency, after the Presidency does not know how long it is going to the Parliamentary Assembly, after the Parliamentary Assembly it is not known how many days it goes to the Presidency again, after 60 days the Presidency should complete the procedure and be announced. That's a total of 315 days. I don't think this law did the job we were supposed to do. It is my opinion because I have read it in detail and what we should have achieved to cut short, and we who are members of the Foreign Affairs Commission are witnessing that for a very long time and a few years, these procedures have been unwarranted and that this really needs to be shortened. The next thing I want to mention here: that at all in this law, and I do not see why perhaps because of the established practice, the Parliamentary Assembly should in any way be consulted here, because it can neither cancel nor initiate the procedure of amending certain members, but only we, here is the Commission for Foreign Affairs that consent, the Parliamentary Assembly ratifies it and it goes further to the Presidency. Perhaps it is, I believe, that it should not go past the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, but in these procedures the role of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is indeed completely invalid, irrelevant, it is purely technical, as it must pass through the night to come a new day etc. In that sense, I think it may be necessary in the next phase to clarify that thing, a little better set up. And here we have another member of 37 that I want to point to. There's still a lot of quiet ones, but here's what I'm going to cut short for today and for the time we're working on. Article 37th old member of the 30th says the Parliamentary Assembly is annually reporting on the execution of international contracts. I've never, ever, been a third-year MP, I've never seen a document that told us about the implementation of international contracts, that we have some information, because if we're MPs, if we follow it, then we're looking for it. However, I think that member is good, desirable, but I want to point out what it is so far, what a practice it has been that it has not been, as far as I know, and it has not been that practice. My discussion, I wanted to make a contribution to these thoughts incentivizing people who will remain working on this. So, when we get to the second reading that possibly these suggestions, especially these deadlines, 315 days, it takes to publish when everything is in the best order, without negotiations that can last for a year, it means that an international contract is finally published. I think he needs to be minimised. As far as it's maximum, it's some Council of Ministers, let the competent ministry assess what's real, but I don't think this is real and it's too long and it's too long and it needs to be cut short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26103	Chairman, Mr. Belkić. Here you go, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26104	I'll take it for a while. So, I am on the line to support this law in the first reading, regardless of the serious remarks Mr Husein Nanić made, because I am convinced that this might be resolved in the second stage by amendments. So I fully agree that the basic objective of this law, apart from transparency and respect for international standards, norms, etc., should be 46 efficiency and speed. Because we are witnessing, indeed, this is optimal what Mr. Nanić was talking about, so in practice we have a situation that it takes 1.5 years and more, that you can't find out where there is... who needs to be delivered to, etc. And so on, because some things happen over and over again. I absolutely support that, and we need to eliminate it and cut these deadlines as short as possible. However, I disagree when it comes to Parliament's role. So, the most legislative body is the only one that, I say, can give consent to ratifying the international treaty. But it certainly assumes that until then all factors, negotiators, experts, etc. provide a guarantee that this parliament can, in a kind of ceremonial way, give that consent. That's the role, in my opinion, of Parliament. And, one suggestion to the promoters, the processors, of course, does not resolve us as MPs of the obligation, these some practical issues, such as the confirmation of an international contract. It is necessary to specify whether this will be done by means of sublegal acts, etc., by which seal, when etc. So there are some practical things that aren't said here. I'm not able to assess whether it should be regulated by law or by sublegal law, but I'm absolutely sure it has to be regulated, because we can come up with an absurd situation that doesn't know when to verify, which seal, code, who, etc. Here, anyway, with support, of course, the law in first reading. And Milorad Živković. [[Shortly disabled microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26105	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, I expected the Proposer to come out and explain one part of the provisions of this law, especially as regards the adoption of a new law, rather than amendments and additions. In fact, since 2000, this law has been in force here and this adoption of the law, if it were to be adopted in this form, it would have been put out of force by the old law. And that is why I went out to ask the promoter to explain to us what the new law is about, what are the procedures that are being clarified, that is, the procedures that are being shortened, and to say whether there is an open possibility that amendments to the parts of this law should be brought into line with the Constitution of BiH, i.e. to leave the possibility for entities in accordance with Article 3. The BiH Constitution allows them to establish special and parallel relations with neighbouring countries and to, in addition to BiH's competence to enter into international agreements, make it possible without the consent of the BiH Parliament and to exercise its own constitutional powers of the entity. It states here that everything must be sought by the BiH Parliament for constitutional jurisdiction; what entities have the right to conclude, the law does not need to limit them by a parliamentary assembly decision. For this reason, the amendments will be passed on to that part of the law, but I would like to clarify certain provisions of this law: in which sense it is more efficient and better, so that it goes into the proposal for a new law, and not only in amending and supplementing the old law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26106	From the Ministry, Mr. Perković. Here you go, Mr. Perković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26107	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, esteeming your time, I will try only in a few sentences to give the most basic remarks and possibly answer a few of these questions. So it is true that, compared to the existing law, the idea of the promoter was that the new law primarily dynamicd deadlines and these deadlines try to shorten. If you have read the bill more carefully, you have seen that we have set deadlines for all state institutions at the level of the ministries. However, it is not a practice for deadlines to be established when it comes to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or the BiH Presidency, because the issue and non-explanation of the Parliamentary Assembly in the process of giving, for example, the agreement on a certain international contract is in some way the position of the assembly. Therefore, there is a mechanism and there is a possibility for the Parliamentary Assembly and the Presidency, so they are not limited by the deadlines and practice of all other countries in the world is about such that some law at that level can be done for months or years because and the failure to act on it is in some way a reflection and the relationship of those bodies to a concrete law and a concrete proposal. We will, of course, try to re-analyze all other deadlines and try to make them as short as possible, but we should also respect the fact that existing internal regulations limit in a certain way procedures in the appropriate... Another significant novelty or novelty compared to the existing law is the possibility of concluding simpler or so on. type international agreements, no negotiations. Today we have a situation in the existing law: both for the most complex international agreement and for the simplest of several articles – we have practically the same procedure. We believe that this significantly increases costs, travel, etc. The new law would allow a series of international agreements, so-called simpler or typical character, simple arrangements without the conduct of a negotiating process, without travel, by exchanging and harmonising the text of these agreements through notes, so to diplomatic channels. The third significant novelty is the fact that the new law separates the possibility of accessing and accepting multilateral contracts in relation to bilateral contracts. We've had the same situation so far. You know that when it comes to multilateral agreements, international conventions, there is no need or opportunity to negotiate. There's simply the possibility of us accepting them or not. With a bilateral, it's something different, and this law makes that difference for the first time. The last thing that also seems important to us is that the law regulates the question of placing reserves on international contracts and withdrawing reserves, and we do not have such a possibility in the existing law, to those perhaps less important things: the question of paraphrasing international agreements is being arranged. In our practice, it has been applied in some way to paraphrasing international agreements even though, by now or still, formal-law, we do not have this institute in the existing law, etc. During the preparation of the law, accepted opinions from almost all BiH's competent ministries were consulted, since the largest number of them, also within their responsibilities, have been preparing the conclusion of international agreements. The law itself does not require additional financial resources for its implementation. 48 Regarding these several issues, the proposer of course had to take into account and take into account the provisions of the Constitution of BiH, the very clear rules that exist in the Constitution of BiH, which in some way limit procedures and procedures of adoption, so for these reasons, for constitutional provisions, we did not share, unlike other countries, in terms of the ratification procedure of this law to simpler and less simple, so they all go through the same ratification procedure because this is the order of the Constitution. Also, when it comes to the adoption of laws by entity bodies, the constitution sets the possibility with what it says is the previous consent of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, in the preparation of this law, we think that we are also in this position to fully respect the solutions that exist in the existing BiH Constitution and, in this context, the promoter was in a certain way bound by the fact and the procedures that have been put in place, because we have probably the most complex ratification procedure of an international agreement, but it is uncontestably stemming from the BiH Constitution. Thank you again, and we will make an effort after this session to very carefully read all these discussions and suggestions that have been given and try to find the most optimal solutions where we can find them and the Constitution. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26108	Thank you, Mr. Perković. It was very useful. I believe that you share an opinion with me and expect further consent procedures. I ask the MPs never to go out at the limit of the quorum. Let's go to... I don't have any more logs for this agenda item. So we're going to point 9. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) He's the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. We got the law in March this year. The Constitutional Commission carried out its work on the constitutional legal basis on 9 April. The Joint Defence and Security Commission was responsible; the deadline was extended on 7 April, etc. We received our opinion on 24 April and as you have seen, the Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on this law in my first reading. I don't have any reports. Finalising debate on point 9. We're going to point 10. 49 Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Military Commissioner for Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MPs Šefik Džaferović and Adem Huskić (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26111	I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26112	I said, I don't know what this is about. I'm not finished. Just one second. So it's also about the law in the first reading. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 27. 3. The Commission for Defence and Security shall be responsible. We received this commission's opinion on 7 April and the Commission adopted the principles of the proposed law. From what I understand, one of the promoters wants to say something. Here you go, Mr. Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26113	He needed Mr. Džaferović, but he asked me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26114	Okay, either you or him.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26115	I'm just going to say in front of the Commission that I suggest that we adopt this law in our first reading. You have read, who has read; who has not read, is not worthy to speak to him now. They have principles, here there's reasons and reasons for bringing them, etc. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26116	Thank you. Surely I believe the MPs have read it because it is a legal act. I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate on point 10. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Home of the People (first reading) We had this law at the 50th session of this House, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which was, to put it this way, negatively, i.e. the Constitutional Commission did not accept the principles of this legislative proposal. The House of Representatives did not adopt such a negative opinion, and 50 were followed by further consideration. We received the Commission's new opinion on 9 April this year. After that further consideration, we have a different report. The Commission therefore supported the principles of the proposal for this law. I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH, in the first reading. I don't have any reports, I'm closing the hearing. Let's go to point 12. Ad. 12. Proposal for a law on the provision of proportionate ethnic representation in the authorities of the administration and local self-government in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26119	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say just a few notes about this law on behalf of the SDA Representatives' Club. In fact, we wanted to remove every suspicion and desire of all of us... by implementing the BiH Constitution, that is, a decision on the consistency of all three peoples in the entire territory of BiH. Therefore, we have proposed such a legal solution which would require the implementation of this decision, not only at will and desire, that is, the political will and desire of any political option or any individual acting at lower levels of government and also at BiH level. In fact, wherever there is a one-national structure in any institution, there is a great danger of human rights violations, including rights, that is, creating national inequality. And of course, it also opens up the possibility of possible corruption, as has been shown in our institution called the CIPS. Then, this law, or the adoption of this law, would give a strong turn back to those who wish to return to their homes, and not only would they remain on the declarative evaluation and assessment of whether... we support the return. Then, as I said, the adoption of this law is, in fact, the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people in the entire territory of BiH and, of course, this law provides for criminal provisions that we want to seriousise the implementation of... of this constitutional 51 categories, if I may say so, because criminal provisions actually increase the degree of responsibility of those who do not want to implement the decision on the consistency of the people. Of course, I have no ambition to read you the Reason, it is very detailed given under this law and for the implementation of this law there is no need for additional financial resources which certainly... I therefore call on my colleagues to support this law in this first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26120	Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26121	I thank you, Chairman. So, I'll do it very briefly. If for nothing, and it should support the principles and pass this law, it... is necessary for these criminal provisions. For what? Because, following the decision on the constitutionality of the people, entities changed their constitutions, adapted their constitutions in accordance with that decision, and after that many laws were passed. One of the laws, I speak when it comes to the situation in RS, one of the laws is the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 3 of that law provides for this proportionate representation of the constituent peoples according to the 1991 census. However, the lack of that law is reflected in the fact that there are no criminal provisions in that law. And that's why the law doesn't apply. For these reasons, it is therefore important to pass such a law that provides for such provisions. So in this law – therefore, it can be upgraded in the amendment phase – some provisions when it comes to for example. The term "employees" is missing from court employees, those who have the status of employees under the State Administration Act. Then, I think that certain audits should also be carried out when it comes to employment after the decision on the constitutionality of the people and the amendments adopted, etc. And so it may have been a mistake here, but it was supposed to be when it came to the justification for the adoption of this law, these provisions, the provisions of the Federation Constitution, the amendments to the Federation Constitution, were to be transposed, however, by the same almost identical provisions of the RS Constitution. Not to go into detail, so I expect this law to be supported and adopted in the first reading and to build a certain upgrade in the amendment phase and make it even better and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26122	Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26123	We have rarely adopted laws in parliamentary procedure here in the last few years that we knew would be very difficult to implement, i.e. in practice. I guess if there's a law whose application in practice is controversial, then it's this law. Dispute for many reasons. 52 Beware, is giving a right to someone with a violation of the right of another positive effect of this law or is it negative? Whether we have given some rights to a number of citizens and have given some rights to others, and thanks to these rights, we can consider the achievement of this law, the positive achievements of this law as colleagues had previously spoken. I think a deeper analysis of the law would show that this law is contrary to certain international conventions. Of course, the absolute opposite of existing legislation in this area, both at BiH level and at the level of entities and cantons, as well as decisions at the level of local administrations. Some solutions are simply not applicable in practice in existing legislation. A law like this would mean a change, so if I didn't say a few dozen laws or hundreds of decisions at the level of this country. This is one of the reasons why I did not support this law at the commission stage, or the Constitutional Commission. Not because I don't think it's good that the structure of civil servants, employees, etc. does not reflect the structure, since this is ultimately the Constitution of obligations, reflects the structure of the 1991 census, but because this issue is not defined as applicable, it is not possible to realise. Of course, there are a number of other measures and ways in which the Constitutionality Decision can be applied in practice even more than it is applied today. It is obvious that it applies only at the level where the law is bound, such as the composition of the government or, I don't know, the national structure of the executives, means... we know by the decision as defined: courts, prime ministers, etc. So I'm staying at the Commission's place. I really can't support the adoption of this law. Of course, I'd like this my failure to accept and understand in the way I said, and not in some other way, because my motive is not to prevent, in any way, the prevention of changes in the structure, but simply the absolute inability to apply this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26124	Thank you. The following came to the discussion, Ambassador Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do it very briefly. In fact, here is the question of the enforceability of the law itself again. Therefore, unquestionably, the constitutional justification of this law is unquestionable to the need for proportionate representation of the constituent peoples in the authorities of the administration. So it's a constitutional obligation. However, our practice, unfortunately, is poor and unsatisfactory, and I think that's why it appears here as a need to pass this law. The good part of this law is that it enters the procedure itself and requires certain procedures, as it is done. I would also agree that there are certain doubts whether each of these proposed provisions is as they are achieved and what deadlines, when it is to be ensured, questionable and I think that this can be addressed or corrected in the further procedure of discussing this law and combing through certain amendments. But basically, I advocate the need to pass a law like this. Thank you. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26126	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26127	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, if it were luck and that there was an honest relationship in BiH against this issue, today we wouldn't even need this law and the essence of this law is an attempt to stop the current obstruction of the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people, and then the amendments to the 2002 entity constitutions in the country. Since 2000, therefore, this principle has not been respected, especially since 2002, although it is the constitutional obligation of both entities. This principle is respected when it comes to state institutions, more or less. It's never going to be a percentage, but at the level of state institutions it's here somewhere, with objections to this institution or that institution, but I'm saying it's never going to be a full percentage, but you can see that this principle is respected, which is actually the most important thing. And at lower levels of government, you can see that this principle is not respected. And the purpose of this law is to finally try to install mechanisms for how to implement it and to prescribe sanctions for those who do not abide by it, because so far nothing has been done and no one has suffered any consequences. The constitutional foundation of the law, therefore, should not be spoken of; of the need of such a law, should not be spoken, for the constitution has said that so should be...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26128	Jozo, we're gonna lose the quorum, believe me. It'll be when you get out.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26129	in a multiethnic state such as BiH; to deal with this issue in the way we've treated ourselves so far, in fact, is to stick your head in the sand and deal with the existing situation. I don't want to deal with it, and I don't think any of us should deal with it. We need positive steps, we need positive incentives to finally start using such a thing in BiH. So I'm like all these days all over BiH and, say, what kind of hope you have of a sustainable return, if you have young people among the return population who have finished colleges and who can't get a job where they live. These people will naturally go where they can find a job. I think that we as a society, and we as a Parliament are the most responsible in this society, we need to do something. For this reason, I urge all of you to support this law, to support its key principle. Its key principle is to realise the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people and the realisation of the entity and the BiH Constitution. And as for the concrete solutions themselves, we can find some solutions in the amendment phase that can be acceptable to everyone. I'm not going to defend all the solutions listed in 54 here. And the SDA Club as a legislator of this law is open to dialogue on concrete solutions. If we don't do this thing, we'll actually start to settle with the existing ethnic situation in BiH. I don't think that's good. It's not good for anyone. Maybe now someone thinks it's not good what we're proposing, but in the perspective, it's bound to come to a conclusion from all of us that this is not good for anyone in BiH. I'm asking you to do this. This applies only to the authorities of the administration and to these professional services in judicial institutions. And if we can do this first step today, then I don't think even a concrete legal solution will eventually be a problem. We on the Commission, with a lot of respect and insight of the various ideas on how to implement this, we will certainly agree and come here to Parliament with a solution that will be acceptable. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26130	Rifat Dolić. We'll be working till 2:00, 2:00 break to 3:00.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26131	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, we brought in dozens of so-called people in BiH during the post-war period. election laws or laws behind which certain electoral or political engineering stood, and they always, as a boomerang, ran around on our heads, either legally or financially, or politically, at the very end. This law on proportionate ethnic representation in the authorities of the administration and local self-government is, I would say, a typical example of such a law, and I think it is clear that the chances of implementing this law are almost zero. It would be out of the minds to dispute the constitutional provisions to which the proposing is called in the interpretation of this law and which regulate the equality of peoples and citizens, the prohibition of discrimination and the proportionate representation of the people in public institutions. I think these constitutional provisions are clear and sufficient to ensure equal proportionality of representation in public institutions. Unfortunately, these constitutional principles are not respected to this day, I would say, in no decent minimum when it comes to leading functions which are of an electoral nature and which do not require this law. A little more these constitutional principles, but still not completely, are respected in some specific public institutions, such as the military, the police, the judiciary, etc. These issues are therefore already prescribed by the Constitution and some laws and I would understand the promoter that he insisted and insisted on their implementation and I think that this would exactly be a big step towards a time and state in which such a law would not be necessary. It is objectively that there is no political will today that even the existing rules on ethnic representation are respected, and unfortunately that political will has not shown a party that is the legislator of this law, at least where it has been able. I may not be directed enough, but I don't know a country in a world where the issue of ethnic representation is so widely regulated and this is how ethnically to be counted. I think that the ethnic count of public sector employees or the state administration would be this broadly just a new incentive of ethnic divisions and something that would be regularly read to us by politicians at times when we have nothing to say about any other strategic issues. This law with such wide scope would create real chaos in the existing 55 other legal regulations, especially in some reform laws, such as the State Service Act, the Civil Service Act and others. So, I don't want to diminish the principle of proportionate ethnic representation, but in this broadness and in this way, I think that at this point, it is more in the function of deepening division than in the function of achieving constitutional right of equality and proportionate representation. I think today is far more rational for us all to ensure the full application of the Constitution and the existing laws on the proportionate representation of the people, at least in the section relating to institutions of particular interest, such as the military, police, courts and others. And in other areas, at least, to the level where it's an unfortunate and indirect... election of representatives. I repeat, I do not want to undermine the constitutional principle of equal and proportionate ethnic representation, but I am not inclined to support something that we know in advance that is neither practical nor realistic. I think this law with this content is pure political engineering which I could also understand that the proposings have so far shown practically that they respect the constitutional principles that are now promoting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26132	Let's go to the replicas. Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26133	It is no longer a matter of replica but the Rules of Procedure of Cite Correction.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26134	Correction of the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26135	Exactly. So, what Mr. Dolić said. So this law is enforceable. ... About that something in terms of the incompetence of the law was said both Novaković and Križanović. Therefore, this law is enforceable because measures are provided for in this law to monitor the implementation of this law, Article 10, and are provided for in Articles 11 and 12 of the criminal provisions. That's why this law is enforceable. Many laws were not subject to the decision on the constitutionality of the people and entity constitutions because criminal provisions were not provided for. This law provides for those criminal provisions. For these reasons, this law is enforceable.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26136	Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26137	Well, be careful, if it's from Mr. Dolić, it's too much, I think. And that's why I got up, or else I'm not replicating him, but to claim that you're in favour of the constitutional principle of constitutionality and fulfillment as set out in 1991, and then the first attempt, after seven years of changing the entity constitutions and their alignment with the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people, 56 call it a political act, I think it's incorrect at least, that I'm not going to use the term. I have already said in my discussion that we have a plan to finally start working in BiH, and among other things, we can discuss it in the commission's debate on concrete solutions, but to oppose the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision, I don't know how, and we see that we have an obstruction, there is no, somewhere less, but it's not in the whole of BiH – it's not consistent at all. That's why I think this discussion was incorrect. I invite Mr. Dolić and everyone else to join us, to find a solution. Here's everything that's smart as an idea to get into this law, it's going to be a commission phase, and the goal is just to finally have a result, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26138	Mr. Lozančić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26139	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the honourable members of the Council of Ministers, the guests, so I must say that this proposal, the initiative, the proposal of this law, if nothing, is good -- here, there is a flaw that I see here, because it shows why to this day, here is 15 years since the end of the war conflicts, we have no quality, we have not even begun a correct return. Why is it that today we don't even have the kind of demographic image in BiH as it was in 1991? We don't have it because there's always someone who can find a reason not to do anything. And, listening now to the remarks on this bill, which is not perfect and which each of us can fix in the amendment phase, I have to say that it was a little too much, so I have to say, dear colleague Novaković, to call for a violation of one's human rights, because one's human rights will be achieved in BiH; I didn't realize that although you are worth being one of the most famous human rights advocates. I must say that I did not understand you in this section: how do you think that human rights are being violated if it is ensured that, in accordance with the BiH Constitution, there is proportionate ethnic representation in the whole BiH territory. Here I think it's only narrowly set to the authorities of the administration, so here through the amendment phase, if normally this bill experiences that phase, we will try to, personally, expand the scope, so to speak, to the application of this law. Calling for politics, calling for ethnic count, so it's about to be this law called racist, I have to say - it's morbid. Because this law is the first concrete attempt, it is not perfect but it is a concrete attempt to at least a little in the authorities of the administration to unify the very successful results of ethnic cleansing in BiH. At least a little, symbolically, in the authorities, because we all want to be properly represented, represented, that we have the right to govern, from the lowest community to the highest authorities of this country. So, no matter what nationalities we are, and whether we are the wrong national belongings in a certain part of BiH. And to defend any, I don't know, political thesis of the situation that is existing and to oppose even the minimal changes in the current state, and I must say, it's nice to have this law in the process and to see, in this way, what its outcome is going to be. I congratulate the promoters on the proposal, and here, if he has a second phase, I will try to make my contribution to him even better. 57 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26140	Replica, Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26141	I thank you, Chairman. I was actually my replica, I was, so something was taken off, Mr. Dolić when he was exhibiting before – and basically I want to remove all the dilemmas as a member of the SDA, which is the legislator of this law, as far as I can say that in my intention to make this law, the insistence that the highest authority of the party make a decision to go into this law – that it has politics. He really doesn't have it, Doliću, and those who have doubts about it, perhaps he can be written differently, but my intention is indeed to support what will allow a normal function of institutions in BiH in line with the constitution of the people and this is an attempt for us to do so. In that sense, I also invite Mr. Dolić to join us in this and give support in this first reading, and let's see further how possible it is if there is what we don't see at this point to fix. What I want to say clearly is that there are on all sides of the obstruction of the application of the principle of this law. There is. You probably feel that in the ranks of the people I belong to, and in cities where the majority of the SDA is, where they rule. I want to remove these dilemmas, say that I do not want to stand anywhere as an obstacle to it, and I want to contribute to it, means that we come to a law that will be objective, realistic and enforceable in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26142	Here's Mr. Dolić to join us in replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26143	Well, of course, it didn't occur to me, nor did I think of any disrespect, whether to derivate constitutional provisions concerning the equality of constituent peoples and proportionate representation. Of course, it doesn't occur to me to be at peace with my current condition, but I'm also against selling fog to people. This, if you had a good interest and a good will to do, to respect this principle, then, gentlemen, you in the ruling six could have provided this at least at the level at which it was regulated by this law, the Constitution and the existing law. To this day it has not been done there and you want to go further into this unrealisticity, further counting of people to a cleaning lady in the state administration. I'm against it, not because it's not necessary, but because it's so unrealistic. And I consider it politics. You can't convince me that it's not politics and that it won't be a good read tomorrow, a good topic, there when we need to think about some other issues that we don't have anything concrete to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26144	Momčilo Novaković, replica. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26145	I only recommend the vice-president, since he asked me, means to read the articles of the 7th and 8th of this law, and it will be much clearer to him, meaning by applying or also by seeking to ensure someone's rights, whose rights are being violated. So it's all clear in Articles 7 and 8 and even in Article 13.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26146	Here, and Slavko got our inspiration. Let's go, Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26147	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I think it's quite said in this law and absolutely in my address I support Mr. Niko Lozančić's exposure because he was basically and essentially struck the cores of today. But as a man who can never accept the story that the situation cannot be changed and that there will never be any different relationship... that will be able to do something, then I am obliged and obliged to myself, not others, to support absolutely this law, with a note that God is proposed and adopted in 1996, and we know that there were much more difficult circumstances than now, because I believe that if not more than 20 people who need to return to certain hearths to return, because they would have better security, they would participate in certain decisions and there would be fewer problems. Those advocates who say that reality is such, that this cannot be applied, then they remind me of a floscule that is being used and which is the fact, 'who is what you pit, is'. With that attitude, I will never agree and I will not agree with the attitude that some have expressed and said: the situation is such that it cannot be changed. How could it have changed since '91? '95. So the areas that were inhabited by many peoples and when BiH looked like one sherean carpet, so it happened when it could have changed in 1991, and now the advocates say it cannot change peacefully. It's actually sad and not to say the worse word, that it's stupid, because it means hit me, kick me out, kick me out, it's a normal condition, and we'll accept the situation as it is, and if you want to tell me pardon me, honor me, then it's an abnormal condition and it can't be carried out. That's why I called, and I mean, I support this law. I wish he'd been accepted sooner. It will enable or help, it doesn't have to make it possible, but it will help the return of refugees, it will work for people who are returning to greater security, and that is why I support this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26148	Mr. Lozančić, replica. He read Articles 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26149	Well, I didn't mean to reply to the replicas, but I'll answer to the distinguished representative Dolić. In the fog sale, some people can't compete. You, I think you're out of competition. 59 And as for the remarks of the distinguished representative Novaković, I have read and I must say that I did not understand again where you found the violation of human rights, and here I am not further sharpening the debate on this issue, there would be much, much to say that some have found themselves in some positions and where those who were once in those positions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26150	It's sharpened already. Sadik Ahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26151	I'll be brief. Mr. Dolić, it's not about counting people, it's about a certain way of allowing others, a different way into institutions, where they were and where they are now not allowed in a certain way through different forms. You've got a little bit of a mix-up. But I would ask the SNSD to vote for this law at least for the reason of a few days ago and to require Srbin in Calesia to enter organs in the Municipality of Calesia, because that's where the SDAs made a mistake. So let's regulate it by law, that throughout BiH we have the opportunity to employ people in the authorities of the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26152	Are you done? We have a replica of Živković. Slowly, Dolić, there will be, you have been gone for two hours here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26153	Thank you. I thought at the end of the day I'd pick up, see if there was anyone else from SNSD, just answer the line and say our position on this. This law, however you explain it, has no constitutional basis for this assembly to bring it. You know this well, and do not let us discuss the law further when this congregation has no constitutional basis to pass this law. The problems you've been talking about are a matter of local administrations, self-government and municipalities, and that's where these problems need to be solved. And to say that by no law what is happening in BiH, what is happening in entities and in the District, which is that the only safe place in this country is the place in the state administration – cannot be regulated by law. You know what pressures are on any of us, on all organs to accommodate someone, to start working and law-making this way is simply impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26154	It's a Dolić. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26155	I'm just obviously misunderstood again. So I absolutely do not dispute the principles of constitutional etc. So I argue that we do not do what is not real, at least in this way and as it is here... in law it is settled. 60 The replica of Mr. Lozančić says that some not only sell fog but try and produce fog. ... I would understand and understand both Mr. Lozančić and the gentlemen who suggest that their intentions are sincere and realistic if they tell me one example of where they... have achieved it. Where did they show their willingness to realize these things? I'll understand them, then I apologize to them in advance if they point to that. If they have not shown willingness to respect it even within these borders that have been regulated so far, we ask what, what to talk about and move on. That's all I'm warning you about. So, I'm not slowing down absolutely, I don't think I'm going to be able to dispute constitutional principles in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26156	Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26157	So somewhere less, somewhere more, but in all of BiH this principle is not respected. And because someone hasn't fully fulfilled the Constitutional Court's decision and challenged the need to pass this law, I really don't understand. And as for the constitutional basis, the preamble of the Constitution, and then this decision of the Constitutional Court which is also the Constitution, the Constitutional Court's decision is the Constitution, and then the entity stops their amendments. The BiH Constitutional Court can make the decision it has made and Parliament cannot pass the law, because there is no constitutional basis for it to work out and implement it in life?- I'm sorry. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26158	Then the replica. [[Shortly turned off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26159	If we compare all the documents mentioned, starting with the Constitution, preamble and these decisions of the Constitutional Court, there is no indication of whose jurisdiction it is to implement them. It can only be found in Article III under 3a) of the Constitution where it says: "All government functions and powers which are not given explicitly to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina belong to entities." And that's the only thing that's relevant, all the rest is the question and the way in which what you're saying here is undeniable, which is that there are certain problems in hiring people in institutions at all levels, there's a way to be respected. I don't think so, and the wrong way here in this House is to pass laws whose authority is not within the Constitution to bring it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Šefik, just stand up, just stand up and tell the arguments. _________(?) 61 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26162	Here, I let you handle it, no problem. We listen very carefully. Slavko, I was worried about you. Here you go. You've been quiet to me all day.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs and the media, if you will see below, I have moved on to economic issues and my own are secure by filling. But to start with these hydrometeorological terms and mists. Here, I am not going to draw her up, but to disperse a little bit and remind my colleagues here in Parliament that I was asking the same parliamentary question at 40 sessions – to respect the constitutionality of the people at the level of state institutions. And he set up, posted, received various answers from various institutions, and no one ever found it appropriate to apply it to the level of what it is for, let's say, the competent Parliament. Where are our agencies, the Council of Ministers and not to list all these institutions that we have set up in the Council of Ministers and no one has ever applied that. So it's not fog, it was facts. And now, unfortunately, they're in power, and no one can ever commit to saying: "Mehmedalija will rise," and Janko will come because he's a Srbin, because there's a lack of Srbin or Hrvat there, here's that. And many times some have respected, truth be told, I must say publicly why I point out in Parliament nationality. They Ponović today, I always point out, and I will now point out, because the Constitution is currently based on three constituent nations, of course, and others, I must neither forget nor fall into my mind: but if there are no three constituent peoples, there is no Constitution. Well, then, to expand the subject a little bit, we didn't have the Election Law, we will. It was the promoters... who fought to get in there that section of the national census, not to write a Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat, but to be all citizens. And today we need to get back to 1991 and the consistency that I welcome. And today we need to remember that, right now, through this law that may have been needed before, or should never have -- to remember today how we are Bošnjak, how we are Srbin, how we are Hrvat, how we are left and how we are ultimately nobody and nothing. Because there have been a number of frauds in this constitutionality, so I have also cited here in Parliament, and today I will just remind myself, because this is all a matter of this law, that in the municipality of Bosnjak is the head of the municipality, and the president of the Assembly of the Municipality remains (Muslim), because he has so declared himself. Because no one has defined yet, and we know that the three constituent nations are only recognized, so I see today's intensity, we're required to recognize the nations and the Bosanac, so I don't know what we're going to get into, we'll see to the end. What do I want to say at the end of the final? Gentlemen, this Parliament has never respected a single decision, to respect, repeat, the constitutionality of the people at the level of the state institutions of Parliament, so here we – never in any institution. And we now have to make a commitment by law that someone in the Municipality of Calesia or in the municipality, I don't know which one, here from RS, Bileca! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Which Fall? 62 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26166	Don't worry, you've already caused two, at least. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26167	My economics are on the agenda now, so after lunch, thank Bog I'm getting ready to elaborate nicely, you'll be pleased. So thank you, Mr. Chairman, and your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26168	This was really economical, Slavko, and it's okay, I just don't know, I don't know where those three people would meet and sit down to write that law. But here's Remzija Kadrić, the Polish, this replica and Ekrem Ajanović, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26169	So it's not a replica, it's a quote correction.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26170	A little precise correction.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26171	I did what Mr. Živković said.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26172	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26173	So, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law: in addition to Article IV, the Constitution is Annex I as an addition to the BiH Constitution, which contains the Additional Human Rights Agreement to be applied in BiH. It is therefore a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. Therefore, Articles IV and Annex I in addition to the Constitution, which concerns additional human rights agreements to be applied in BiH. It's a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26174	Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26175	Still, I have to replicate my dear friend's Slavuj. He says my wife sings well. He says this: he could be a singer. The alphabet of politics is that we here do not represent the Bošnjak, Srbin, and Hrvat, because we are the House of Representatives, so we represent the citizens of BiH. Whether anyone liked it or not from the territory we come from or whether we are elected through national or other parties, the people have a House of Peoples where they represent the peoples. That's one thing. 64 And another thing we still have to understand: we're building a state, and no country is being built in five or ten years or for the present alone, it's being made for the future, and there's no state that can be made to fail 50 to 100 years ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26176	Thank you. Is this a good thing? Slavko, I see a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26177	Well, Mr. Chairman, there's more clarification than the replica, because I really appreciate this...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26178	So the clarification is accurate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26179	Oh, dear professor, we're the first ones to enter this building, you know that, we've repeated it countless times. You know how the alphabet of politics? I remember well, it was right in this building when it was open and if you knew in that system only two introductory sentences, starting with the views of the 12th and 13th conventions, you were successful in your career. Later, you kick whatever you want, you won't fail. So, that was important to you to know, the introduction, starting with the views of the 12th and 13th conventions, and later on, you're you, if you're not going to be a member of the CK Executive Committee and you're going to go a little into the socialist union, but you can't fail. So today I have not performed with the thesis that we are not citizens, but I will never allow anyone to delete me or I to some national decree and I am proud to be a Srbin, and I am even more proud to sit in this joint parliament with you Bošnjak and with Mr. Hrvat. But when I say that and if there's anyone else, I apologize if they declare themselves that way, I apologize. So, I'm glad to make a deal with you, but I was talking about another thing, which has no prior agreement, and then legal projects, which would be of interest to all the peoples and of course citizens in BiH. But let me tell you one more sentence. If I was a candidate in Bugojn by any chance, I wouldn't even be in the local community. But since I am a candidate of the Serb people from the RS and I am elected by Srbin, I will always be elected, no matter who thinks. Because you know how, I respect your people with great respect, and I have never offended an individual, not God's people. But to be clear, no Bošnjak voted for me. Even if he was an illiterate hodja told him at the mosque who he was voting for. So, to be clear, I respect that and I welcome it. So don't run away from the constitutionality of the people, and let's point it out on every occasion, but we've lined up here, too, with the Cyrillic Slavko Jovičić Slavuj, with you writing with the Latin Professor Ajanović, and I welcome it, I don't need to read it, I know you for 25 years. So, what's the problem? It is nothing, if we are to be honest, to respect one, the other, the third people and the other and to negotiate and to propose projects together. That's my intensity. Thank you very much. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26180	Here's what Slavko Jovičić would say, at the end of the final debate on item 12. And as for these conventions, congresses have to wait a little longer, so we'll have attitudes, right? Let's go to point 13. Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law on Excises of Bosnia and Herzegovina First is reading, the Council of Ministers is proposing. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 24 April, the Commission responsible for finance and the budget. She delivered her opinion on 29th. 4. As you have seen, the Commission has accepted the principles of the proposed law. At the same time, however, she also adopted a conclusion tasking the Council of Ministers with, in the meantime, providing, in the course of the procedure,... the opinion of the Management Board for indirect taxation on the Excise Law proposal. So, let's make a deal... We planned a break at 1400 hours, I have two, four men to discuss. Are we going to exhaust this discussion and conclude, or are we going to take a break...? I see you're tired. Break till 3:00. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26183	Dear colleagues, fellow Members, we had an infamous attempt yesterday to organise a session of the Ad hoc Commission and GOPAK, so-called. Global parliamentarian organizations against corruption. And unfortunately, only four of us came. Why do I mention this first? I'm referring to the reason why it speaks of our relationship to this socially harmful phenomenon, called corruption. And that's actually saying that we have no hearing about it because it's a danger to BiH institutions, a danger to society as a whole. And that's what I want to rephrase through this bill of excise duty, the jar of solutions offered in this law unfortunately go to those who have the ambition to deal with this socially harmful phenomenon, i.e. corruption. Why am I saying this? If 66 you look who and how defined the payment of excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages and on alcohol used in the chemical industry, the biggest irregularities, not to say thief, which can occur in terms of the evasion of the excise part of the tax happens precisely on the production and transport of alcoholic beverages,... for which the excise duty is paid, it seems to me, in the amount of 15 KM per litre and this law is precisely clearly defined. But the one who imports alcohol as a repromaterial was released from the payment of excise duty, which is quite logical: based on the prescription, the Directorate for indirect taxation, or the competent inspection, may exercise control over whether a certain quantity of imported alcohol, pure alcohol, was used to produce that amount of alcohol paid for by the excise. And it's all right. However, in Article 19, excuse me, the 31st return on the excise part of the tax applies only to denatured alcohol, i.e. alcohol not used for the production of alcoholic beverages and where there is no possibility of abuse in the sense of smuggling, not to say, illegal trade in this excise product. What does that mean? It means that whoever made the proposal of this law prefers those who can deal... with the illegal trade in alcohol and alcoholic beverages, or frees them from paying the excise part of the re-promatter tax. On the other hand, the entire chemical industry puts an unequal position in advance, so when imports will have to pay the excise duty, of course, on which it has to return after a month or two days. But here's an example. I'll tell you exactly what that means. If a manufacturer has a need for a tanker of alcohol, denaturized, that is 23 thousand liters,... whose purchase price is about 20,000 marks, he should when importing to pay the excise tax, so multiply it by 15, 345 thousand marks in order to have the right to return that excise part of the tax after a month or two days. Allow me, but tell me which company can handle it, if it's known to be a retail price, let's say, any chemical product based on alcohol is very low-accumulated, if I may say so. For that reason, I want to point out this problem, because this is a very big problem in this law, because it is preferable to those who want to get good in an illegal way. And that's not good. Or put them in an even position, so let the right to return be put in the same position as those from the chemical industry, who use denatured or polluted alcohol and those who produce alcoholic beverages. So, in the same equal position. Well, if they are freed, let them both be freed. If they're going to pay for the excise and have the right to return, let each other have the same thing. I think you understand me. I therefore believe that this is a failure made by the legislators of this law, and I believe that this amendment needs to be corrected and, in that sense, I will propose an amendment which, in fact, in that financial section, does not mean anything which would potentially be controversial for the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Administration. But here's what it means to allow people to function normally, to live normally, is normal products. Of course, I have objections to several of these members, so says Article 2(2) "The Management Board will determine the allocation methodology." I think that through that methodology, behind this attitude, you can hide all kinds of suspicious things. I say suspicious things in terms of what methodology, what principles, what, how and in what way? I should have the bill promoter at least tell us how he thinks these funds should be distributed. Next, Article 25(6) ‘except for alcoholic beverages’. This expression is vaguely set against the rest of this attitude. 67 In Article 30(1) under g), this part of the exemption should be transferred to Article 31(2). So it's not a release, it's a right to return, so it's put in the same position. And secondly, you remember that we had by the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs a proposal for a law that treated this matter, which is very similar to this law and which provided for the exemption from paying the excise part of the tax on blue diesel, for agricultural production. Here in this law, they don't have it and they say, well, it's the entity's jurisdiction, let the entities do it, or let them do it back. But if it's the Excise Act, then it's BiH's jurisdiction. I don't see the reasons why it didn't find a place in this law, but here's the thing for discussion. Then Article 35. (toll). It is not clear whether 0.15 and 0.00 of the excise part of the oil tax and oil derivatives are added to that amount, i.e. the amount of excise duty referred to in Article 17. Does this mean that there will be a drastic increase in the price of oil and oil derivatives in retail? And what that would mean for the economy is what we need to see. And Article 36 (1) adds 'and agricultural machinery that does not use roads'. I think it's illusory to say those agricultural machines that don't use roads at all to pay the excise part of taxes, tolls and, I know, this amount for highways. I think that needs to be fixed. And here, if I was clear, I think the proposer should consider a few of these things that are at least unnatural, I'm not going to say, unfair to a particular category of manufacturers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26184	Let's move on. Let me remind you, therefore, we're discussing the law in the first reading, the principles, so I'd like to ask you not to go into detail, but in any case, it's useful to hear. Unfortunately, we don't have people here from the department of resolution, but here we have the President's office, so I believe he will convey the reflections of this debate. So next is Momčilo Novaković. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26186	Thank you, Chairman. I just know a little bit about this law and I don't want to get involved, because it's not a field that I'm too interested in. But in a very non-shallant presentation, Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović said very important things about the Council of Ministers, the Resort Ministry – how this law should go and in which direction it should go. If it is said that this law intends to promote or intend to promote some import lobby or other in BiH, I want to say here, that 68 I knew that this topic was opened in this way, I would not open it, until the resolution minister is there and we clear out the desire and will for this law to be passed. I mean, I don't know anything about this law, but to get up an MP in front of a strong and powerful SDA and say that the wish of a minister or council of ministers and have expressed doubts about the possibility of corruption in connection with this law, I don't want to argue here until someone from the Council of Ministers comes out and crosses the arguments regarding this excuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26187	Mr. Novaković, you didn't sign up, it was a mistake, right? Wrong. Replica. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Ah, there's another replica. Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26189	Allow me, I had no intention of opening an argument like this. But the solutions offered in this law actually point to that. Because the biggest smuggling in the excise section means alcohol, alcoholic beverages, is made with alcohol, means alcoholic beverages. You know how many illegal liquor chargers in BiH, how many have been discovered, what has been done and so on. So that just points to a possible possibility. I'm coming, in the chemical industry, you can't get dirty, so to speak, alcohol used to produce alcoholic beverages. It can only be used for the chemical industry. And we're putting the chemical industry in an unfavourable position in relation to these where there's exactly an irregularity in business?- I'm sorry. It was all I wanted to point out. Of course, they have organs that deal with both control and protection and everything, so let each one do his job. But I would also like one of the promoters to explain to me why he put alcoholic drink producers in a more favourable position than the chemical industry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26190	I remind you – here, of course, Mr. Živković has a business intervention – but let me remind you that at the beginning of the session I said the reasons why today we do not have the largest number of ministers or these ministers who are coming to leave the Council of Ministers' session just to be present for at least one time. Mr. Živković, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26191	Although there aren't a lot of debaters here that have come forward, I don't know what they're going to say, maybe they're going to cause replicas, I don't see the point of continuing to discuss this subject, and I suggest we stop it in this part and then wait for the next session when someone from the Council of Ministers or possibly the minister to clear this up. What is the purpose of this law? If this is what the honourable MP Mehmedović said, the wish and... then let's not discuss 69 further on this law. I don't see why MPs will now be discussing something where you have expressed suspicion that it is the Council of Ministers' wish to open this topic in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26192	Of course, there will be opportunities for the Ministry to determine. However, the minister's lack of presence is not a business obstacle for us to continue. We only have two more, (?) No microphone turned on We have... two more registered debaters and we need to bring an end to the debate. There'll be an opportunity, of course. Slavko Jovičić. (?) Momčilo, Momčilo!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26195	Well, I'll say first that I think Mr. Živković's proposal was good. I don't know why we didn't possibly put it to the vote that we're not having this debate today, because I have to say that in many ways, the minister's presence depends on how we can conduct today's debate. There are indications Mr. Mehmedović spoke of, and I must say that in my debate I wanted to give some indications, and I did not say, nor can I say that in any way someone knowingly did it. But why don't I doubt if it is, if someone did something like that that might leave them doubt. If someone has brought this law into an unequal position domestic production in relation to imports, why should I not doubt that there is something behind it. So, if there is any intention of stopping the debate, then I will not lead the debate to the presence of the minister, because I would first ask him for some comparisons of the proposed rates with what is today in force and from which Mr. Živković and all of us could see that some serious questions should be clarified. So, if he's up to it, I wouldn't discuss it, unless we have any intention of... having a debate, then I'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26196	We work, we work, there you go. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26197	Okay, thank you. First of all, I think it's symptomatic that there's never been a minister or chairman on tariffs or excises.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26198	I'm really sorry, Mr. Novaković. If you remember, so is the Council of Ministers session, given the circumstances, I really did, the man apologized, and it's a meeting of the Fiscal Council, the man came in this morning and apologized.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26199	Well, you see, I see Mr. Halilović here as a minister who must have realized that his agenda point is important and that's why he's attending today. I thought for that minister, too, it was an important part of the agenda, so it would be the turn to attend. She obviously doesn't think it's important how important we think she is. But good. So, the first thing I meant to ask the minister was to say to me, "What about the excises on cigarettes, the current state and the new state?" According to the information I have, excise duties on domestic cigarettes are nominally significantly higher, increased, than excise duties on this side of cigarettes, which, of course, leads to the unfair position of domestic producers, especially tobacco producers, because we know how many percent, I don't know, I have information from tobacco producers who believe that this proposal of the excise law raises their position in general as tobacco producers, not cigarettes, but tobacco. Of course, here there's a very interesting finding like that excise does not mean an increase in retail prices. An increase in excise duty by half doesn't mean an increase in retail prices? In RS, there is even a limited retail margin to 8%. I don't know what this 50 means then. So, really very interesting findings such as the finding that an increase in oil excise duty also does not mean an increase in oil prices. On whom shall we take these 12, or 11.7, or 12 fenings? So, we're not going from the end consumers, or from the consumer, I don't know who, whether that trade takes too much margins, so now they need to take that 12%, obviously it's not. Of course, what I'm saying can, and it doesn't have to be principles. The fact is that if it is the principle of this new law here, as is said or the reason for the provision of the applicable law, they act on certain economic flows, then the tobacco producers say that now this new law acts indecimatingly on them, then this law has not reached its goal, at least the one mentioned here under point 4. I will, of course, have amendments to this law. I don't think there's any point in this debate today, and that's why I'm going to interrupt it because there's no one who can answer these questions, or why we're giving the board of directors this law the right to agree on these excise duties annually, and we're bringing it here today, we're determining the level of excise duties, then we're giving it to the Management Board of the indirect taxation that I agree with during the year, and not even reporting to the Parliamentary Assembly about it. 71 So, there is a series of shortcomings here that I will obviously have to turn into amendments at this amendment stage, but I think the Council of Ministers, or the Secretary-General, is really not serious enough in relation to the draft laws delivered in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26200	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26201	Mr. Chairman, in order not to repeat what Mr. Novaković said, of course I agree, I will only express the surprise that you are amazed that there is no minister today. So you know no one sitting on this side, no one. Do you remember when I asked the question for the first three chairs empty, for the second row four empty, for the third five. Niko one was. And today all of a sudden you're all shocked that there's no minister? I don't know what you're wondering. So how many times has there been no one, and we have debated, depends on what is on the agenda and who is in the interest of the matter being debated. Now today, I'd like to support what Mr. Živković has to say or, Mr. Novaković, to stop, but here's to at least having a clagort what we're going to do below. We're gonna break up today, but at least we know what to do. I'm asking the key question: why are these three only products, oil, oil products, oil products, coffee and tobacco? What about the rest of the luxury? Where's the cosmetics, say? Do we all have to be made up and look so great like we're actors? What about other things that can be excisely taxed? Second, remember when I am, I'll remind you, here I smoke, so I can handle a box of cigars being 20 marks, of course, the poor can't. Why just 15 fenings, if it's a regular excise now, 42%? So I asked who would convince me – and I'm not talking about import lobbys, but I'm talking about thieves – that the box of Ronhill in Croatia, so in Rovinj, is at the gate of 2.5 marks, and we have 1,80 KM. Now, this economist who explains that relationship to me: I am resigning from this moment, not to be an MP, but out of the public. Please, I repeat, you understand very well. So, at the Rovinj gate, 2.5 stamps, at our house, 1.80. E, which is economic logic, where there are transport costs, where there are other things, etc., etc. Furthermore, here I mentioned: it is better to ruin 100 cafes than 10 cities today starve these poor and miserable. Why the alcohol wasn't taken again now but we said 15 marks is enough on the liter there that once was. Why didn't we get into that story and see all the analysis? Secondly, does anyone really think that the oil-gathering of these ten fenings won't cause a chain reaction of bread for this poor woman? An increase in all prices of hop, and it won't be them watching 10 fencing excise! Who's gonna regulate that market? We remembered it, the demand, the offer regulated, it's a market economy. Who's gonna get those oilmen in line so they don't increase their fuel immediately? And when they increase, the hoarding is both bread and all and what we will do. Well, everyone sees and doesn't have to be an economist to pay us and the budget is missing. Because for 3,500 items, customs are now zero from the EU. We have to, what I've always said, where we lost on the bridge on the keg to make up for it. But is this the turkey right? It's not. This is where we're all gonna crash and fall. For this poor woman has been brought to ruin, she no longer knows what she will do. It takes that coffee in the morning that it can't drink, coffee or coffee anyway, they know it well, they can't drink it, so 50 72 fencing, and a golden watch that costs 12,000 marks to stand or I don't know what else. What about luxury, people? And why only three of these items? All of this needs to be returned. But since this is a system that isn't working, it's an indirect tax administration, when she says it can't, for free we can talk here for five days there's no law, they say no point. Can we tell you what he can do? And here I'm telling you that we can increase the excise duty from this regular excise duty 42, now they've predicted 15, increase to, I don't know how much it would be now, but let's say the stamp, and that's exactly for these importers, so we don't choke domestic production. So what do we do? And this little bit we're making, the ones that tobacco unfortunates produce, and now we need them, which my grandmother would say one thing, but I understand it very well, to help them finish the story, and where are we then? These are life stories, people! We can't break over our knees like this and just say, well, now we're going to get an oil and oil derivatives tax of 120 million in the budget, we're going to give it to the highways. Who's gonna need highways? Guys, we need bread, hello! Guys, if we're gonna get serious, we need to survive this year economically, I repeat. It's principles. That's why this law -- it doesn't matter what the minister doesn't have, the minister is at least guilty here, I'm not defending him, least of all guilty -- but will these experts economically create some parameters and relationships to see what we're really going to get with it and who we're going to push further into the break-in?- I'm sorry. As much as the excise duty may be, I, if I smoke myself first, poison myself and take responsibility, I can pay a pack of cigars for being an MP, and my mother-in-law, who has 120 marks, can't even smoke Drava, and then I have to make up for it, but I can't make it up to everyone. Please, these are all the laws of this country, this nation is not taken care of by anyone, and this is an imposition on the fairies, instead of the rich,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26202	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26203	Instead of the mob, thieves, lobbyists and those who have acquired enormous wealth. Let's tax them a little bit. So there's no minister and I'm gonna break up. And if he did, maybe he'd ease his speech, 'cause he's the least guilty. For this, if we adopt at such rates, it is this parliament's fault. So we have time, it's in our first reading, and let's put it off today, and I'll call you back when he's back, of course, because it's in my best interest. Well, don't, you said this morning you were surprised that I wasn't answering, so I'm just picking up, so now be happy. I tell you what the people say, people, you're not, we're all in touch, we're doing everything other than the people, this is people against the people, all three constituent nations and others, of course. So, let's get this back to them to capture this and still find at least 10 to 20 of those items there and... raise those excises if we're short of money, and not just catch three things, just the poor ones. Thank you very much. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26204	I haven't, I haven't noticed, that the Minister's absence is disturbing you in the length of the debate, etc. Mr. Bahtić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26205	Now, obviously, my colleagues have already discussed the second stage, and this law, in my opinion, is also of paramount importance, and therefore the Finance and Budget Commission adopted principles, although we did not have the consent, the decision of the Management Board, for the reason it is a factor of time, there is no time to wait. We're losing 200 million KM because agreements and customs are dropping incomes, falling budgets are... This law just needs to make up for all that loss of 200 million, and according to some analyses, some say that this law makes up 200 million, some even say 290 - 300 million. I think this is a very important economic law, as it was proposed, and I have on it... However, it is important to adopt it in the first phase because of time, and phase two: I too am that other luxury is taxed, that the rich are even more taxed, like this... in this law there are segments where domestic production is protected. I'd be much happier if this law had been passed before the recession, because it should have come before, the lobbys wouldn't have allowed it. I don't think it takes much. So, the principles to adopt, and in phase two, we'll see, you suggest further amendments, and I'm about to expand, so the rest of the luxuryes and especially the tobacco to increase that. Everywhere in the world there are these laws, everywhere there's a chef and a luxury pay, there's nothing with us. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26206	And I still have Joza Križanović. Here, we're still gonna make it through the debate, which is no reason to repeat the debate as usual in the second reading, is it, Slavko?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26207	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26208	Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to remind you that at the last session we decided to discuss this law and the Proposal for a Law amending the VAT Act, we are considering a brief procedure. You see, at that time, some colleagues, including me, were saying that the country is in such a state that it would be necessary to adopt a package of certain measures from fiscal policy that would be appropriate to this situation. In every serious country such laws are attended by the Prime Minister, or the Prime Minister, and gives a detailed explanation of the importance of the objectives of the law, etc. You see, today, we of these two laws that we've adopted in the same way to go according to the shortened procedure today 74 have been discussed, and the other one we don't have yet. I guess the reason is that there's no approval from the IRS, as far as I can tell, there's no such thing as this, is there? Of course, you don't need to talk about how important this law is and how much it takes. But it's also important to know that these 15 days nothing will save a thing. It should be borne in mind that two or three years ago in this same room we discussed better bills on excise duties and on luxury goods. Of course, that's not appreciated either, because it came from suspicious proposings. There are a number of vague questions that have opened up colleagues here today and we need to get an answer. And we're not going to achieve anything today by saying this, come on, these are principles, we need law, we move on, and then we're going to upgrade in the amendment phase. This is about the need for the essence of what we do and what we want to achieve. Gentlemen, I don't think we have any climate or conjecture or even business. It's about one serious law, there's no proposer, no person, or address to which questions could be asked and debated about such an important law. I think it would be a good idea to not only talk about this law now, but to ask the Council of Ministers a question: Are all, shall I say, reservations and possibilities with this law or is there in preparation something that the Council of Ministers has in mind when it comes to the response to this crisis, in fact, to the economic and financial crisis? What about VAT at last, what about the tax on luxury goods and what is, after all, what is basic, with incentives for domestic production? It's all one set that we should take care of as a whole, and like this, by adopting these individual laws on a drop, I'm afraid we're going to lose one whole of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26210	I have an extra one, so Bajazit Jašarević, please. Yeah, there's Mr. Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26211	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I do not think there is any reason why we do not accept that the proposed excise law has been passed on to acceptable principles and principles that apply in all countries of Europe. All of these discussions are absolutely understood as the right to look at it from different sides because of the different level of information we have. But you can't avoid the fact that everything that's been brought here can't be fixed by amendments to what we want the law to look like. The main problem is how to reach a measure that can be agreed between us when we know that it is absolutely necessary for the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority to give consent to these future amendments. I'm not sure that on the board of directors of indirect taxation, people look at this law equally. I even think they look different, completely different. The scope has been agreed as a compromise of what can be accepted in the RS and the Federation, in the Brcko District of BiH, because it is clear that it is voted on by the Management Board of indirect taxation. If we postpone it a hundred times, we'll get one or more laws like this. We're going to have to fix it with amendments every time because we see different things. It's hard for a man to argue with the arguments that have been made here. Our main task is that when we get the amendments, we sit down and see what we can agree on from the amendment, and we get the approval of the Administration for 75 indirect taxation. I'm not sure we can do much more in this step, but I'm obliged to say that even the existing law hasn't answered a lot of the questions that we're bringing here today. When we compare the number of open issues in the existing law and the one offered to us, there are many more open issues in the existing law than in this new law, in some form that will be adopted, and therefore it would be one step forward. And so, let me remind myself that the introduction of additional excise duty to build roads is one of the particular reasons why it is necessary to support the principles of this law and to see what can be further brought into line. I don't understand why there's no one from the Ministry of Finance, and I want to repeat, every time on the Commission, they're representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and every time we get an answer to all the questions. I consider this a mistake, because there was no need to be a minister here, if he was busy out there, one of his very competent assistants could. So I call on the House to find the strength to support the principles and then to spend all the energy we've put out here today in accordance with the amendments that we're going to deliver in the parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26212	Here, I don't have any more reports. Mr. Jašarević reminded us of some things we all know very well here, but here, it's not burning again. I also noticed Mr. Ivanković and he peeked a little bit, here he is today all day here, the man just controls how things are with these excises etc. Let's go to point 14. Ad. 14. Declaration by the House on the Request of the Commission for Finance and the budget for the extension of the deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement So in the shortest case, it is the Commission's request again. Therefore, one request was approved by the College, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Meanwhile, coordination activities have been conducted, joint meetings with the Agency, with the Office, with colleagues, with this commission, etc. Unfortunately, business has not been completed. There is conviction and expectation and hope that things might still be possible and in this direction it is required to extend the deadline by 21 days. I'm opening a debate on a request to extend the deadline. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to point 15. 76 Ad. 15. Declaration on the proposal for a revised Bosnia and Herzegovina strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement and the conclusions arising from the debate, agreed in the committee responsible
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26215	I thank you, Mr. President, and thank you for the warning even to those MPs who didn't say a word today so they wouldn't accidentally exceed the quota. I understand that constructively, but it's too important for us to formally approach this agenda point now. But specifically, as regards the conclusion proposed by the Joint Commission: I support it but lacks a deadline, within which the Ministry of Human Rights should draw up an Action Plan. You have to stand here in this conclusion: if that's three months, three months. I suggest that it be three months and not a day away. And secondly, I support this strategy and I believe that there are no more stories about procedures and papers than about how the Council of Ministers, state institutions and this Parliament will provide half a billion KM. It's the only serious story and that the seven-year-old dysonity, where we've spent a million marks a year on our way back, finally we try to make up for... the realization of the action plan we hope to get in three months. Thank you very much, Mr. President. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26216	Thank you. I apologize to Mr. Raguž if you understand in a way that reduces the possibility, but I was just talking about the facts that we have discussed this strategy ended and concluded, and absolutely...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26217	I hope I've justified it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26218	You have absolutely justified this time that you have spent and, of course, in that direction I support any kind of discussion that goes in the direction of clarifying and approaching a unique attitude towards this important document. So, Mr Sadik Ahmetović, President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank my colleague Raguž, and I think that he can – so this is my personal opinion – stand to the conclusion, but given that the Council of Ministers has reached some of the conclusions adopted by the Council of Ministers and the Commission when we first discussed this revised strategy that stands for three months, and there is no reason not to stand in this conclusion, and I think that today we should adopt this strategy because it depends on all the activities that are ahead of us, on our duties, and perhaps this census law, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26220	Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26221	Thank you. I'm not going to open a debate about this, as we agreed, but I want to commend the Ministry that did a good job and that we're missing a small, small step. As the Ministry proposed, I proposed a conclusion to the Commission to the Commission, it was voted. The Council of Ministers' conclusion has passed, my conclusion has not passed, and we are simply different in principle. I support the conclusion that the Council of Ministers has proposed. I also support the conclusions of the Council of Ministers, which is what the Council of Ministers has proposed and I have nothing against them. But I simply don't think that we can give any conclusion to what I have put into my conclusion, which is to install in this strategy only one sentence: 'Help in building and restoring houses to persons who have opted for staying in the current place of residence'. I'm not asking for anything else, but for one single sentence to be inserted into this strategy, which, by the conclusions of both the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Resort, only increases. 78 Therefore, it cannot be concluded at the same level and what is inserted into the strategy, and the strategy is a very broad document that must be supported by action plans afterwards. If it does not support itself, it is just a dead letter on paper, and such strategies in BiH have had a lot. We have the opportunity to bring strategy and implement it in a simple way. I want this conclusion to be put to the vote, as it was on the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26222	Of course you'll put it on, so that's your business right. Is there any further discussion? There isn't. I conclude a practical debate on the proposed conclusions and generally conclude the debate on this point 15. Let's move on, let's go to point 16. Ad. 16. Annual Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina 2008 report We got this report at the end of March. The report was reviewed by the Finance and Budget Commission and submitted its report to us on 15 April. Of course, he's positive. ... So, it is positive unanimously and I am taking the opportunity to welcome Central Bank Governor Kemal Kozarić, of course, with the possibility that if he wants to address Parliament with a few words regarding the Annual Central Bank Report. If he appreciates that there's no need, I'm opening a debate. Here comes Commission President Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26224	Thank you. Right away, the Commission unanimously adopted this Annual Report of the Central Bank, with this report even being commended to the Commission, because last year's 2007 Annual Feast was also done, so it was praised. Also, following the findings of the Audit Office back two years, the Central Bank had a positive audit report, which also gives a picture of this institution that respects rules and regulations. We said... that this report was well done and is so rich with economic indicators that the Council of Ministers, in any case, should take this report and, based on it, do a strategy of their work, because it shows everything, a set of images of the BH economy. This institution is particularly commendable – do not laugh, and you commended this report on the Commission – because in this recession and crisis, the only institution that has adopted certain measures to alleviate the crisis in the field of monetary policy 79
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26225	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26226	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26227	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26228	It is no thank you, I think that BiH citizens believe in this institution and, in my opinion, this is one of the more successful institutions in BiH and I wish them every good and to continue this way. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26229	Thank you. Next for discussion is Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26230	Well, first of all, I'm going to welcome you to the chairman, of course, by which I don't know which time, and the governor I saw at the entrance, and it's good that you came, otherwise you wouldn't be discussing. Iimati have a few questions for you and Mr. Honorable fellow Bahtić. We've been known here as the most radical people, but here, you've heard these praises, and you'll receive a few commendations from me, but you'll have questions and note. So, from your report that you provided us, which I read because I've now focused on this business, I said, movement – I'm sorry that on November 3rd I asked for a joint session, and here is April 29th and there is none of it – and only the Central Bank has done something that is known and visible in public. And what's commendable, at least I've been watching you, Mr. Governor, who explained this situation, while others, and the right to tell you, have no reason to go into the media, have nothing to say, I am among them. So it is clear that you have continued to maintain monetary stability, implement monetary policy, in accordance with the principles of the Currency Committee. And that's, that definition everyone knows who went to first year of college. Financially, 2008 was the most successful so far, at least what you presented in the public and in this report. The achieved bank profit, as you have shown, is 199.4m KM, out of which 119.7m KM was transferred to BiH institutions in early April after the adoption of financial reports. So to us who are in the executive and legislative power. Thank you. It is commendable, because this Central Bank shows how, with successful management and investment of foreign reserves, exceptional results can be achieved, but I would like you to explain to me and my colleagues here whether, in this reporting year, foreign reserves were at risk and losses in some of the banks, where they were held and 80 how they were invested today? So, what you put there at the disposal of those commercial banks. Because besides the goal of making revenues is very important, perhaps even the most important, security of foreign reserves for the preservation of monetary stability, because giving thieves so that everything you've saved and earned gambling wouldn't be good. Furthermore, the Central Bank's reaction to the global financial crisis was timely and prevented the negative consequences of the BiH banking sector, which was most important to preserve monetary stability. Since the beginning of October last year when indirect implications of the global financial crisis felt here in BiH – it started long ago because the word crisis is a transient character, this seems to be agony – the Central Bank has taken over a number of activities related to the mandatory reserve, as the only instrument of monetary policy under the terms of the Currency Committee, which is good, of course. In time, the central bank responded adequately and managed to maintain a healthy banking sector and enable its liquidity to be strengthened, which is very important because funds over one billion KM can be released that can be used to finance the real sector. The following question is raised for you, Mr. Governor: 'How much can the Central Bank affect the banking system in BiH that these free funds are placed by businesses under acceptable conditions? Next, the main advantage of the Currency Committee is that, and you have shown it fine in this report, which has established solid rules, which prevent economic policy makers from broadcasting money without cover. Fortunately, we can't print money and that's good, because we always miss it. The central bank has no ability to generate inflation by printing money. On the other hand, the Currency Committee system also implies greater commitment to the BiH Central Bank to the fixed exchange rate, which is also good because it is tied to the euro (i.e., well) so that it can be effective in rapidly breaking inflation and reducing possible speculative shocks on the currency, which it has on a daily basis, of course. However, the Currency Committee does not regulate the work of commercial banks. And we now see various protests of the association, so here I am among them, as an individual, where they raised double interest on my housing loan, double. So the system and mechanism of the Currency Committee in the event of a payment deficit cannot affect the reduction of the monetary mass, which may result in recession effects, and we have already said that we are in recession. A number of questions arise from this above, and I would like to ask just one more question: What can the Central Bank of BiH do in this year 2009 to make a greater contribution to amortising the implications of the global financial crisis? Aware of the legal framework under which the Central Bank is working and what it could do, so I think it would be effective and effective if some legal provisions changed, to help you in further and more efficient business. Of course, by asking this question, I don't think it's generally necessary to abandon the principle of the Currency Committee, especially during these years of the financial crisis. It's been going on for a decade, except we were told late, so we didn't understand. And finally, of course, I would also like to point out that the Central Bank of BiH has continuously informed the public, what I said at the beginning, and the citizens in a responsible and transparent way, not only about the measures taken but also about the recommendations for behaviour in these situations, with a fundamental goal of alleviating anxiety and avoiding panic related to the withdrawal of the savings. 81 And we had here once, I think, information, I don't know if it was checked, if only for three months there had been about 400 million deposits from commercial banks, which was a disaster, and it would have continued, and the question of whether today there would have been stamps on the account of these commercial banks if you hadn't intervened in time and so I give you my gratitude and support. This has contributed, therefore, to your activities, to preserve the hard-earned trust of the citizens in the banking sector and not to show up here in Dafina and Jezda and others where they would pyramidally tear down what we've been building for years. So, Mr. Governor, on my own personal behalf, of course, I express my gratitude to you and to management, I will say, one of the only institutions in BiH and, to me, most importantly, because the money that she managed to keep us from talking today about a total collapse, but we are talking about a crisis that others have not devoted enough attention to, and to God, as I see it, and they are not interested in, because I repeat, on November 3, 2008, I submitted the initiative, later my esteemed colleague Bahtić joined me and thank him, and you all joined, but here is nothing, but there is nothing. From time to time, it appears somewhere in the public that the Council of Ministers has prepared some measures, but the people do not see the benefit of the measures. And to return, therefore, Mr. Governor, I haven't asked you difficult questions, you will have my support, I don't know about other colleagues, in implementing this monetary policy. I don't know, as far as I'm concerned, you'd have my support and you'd be a lifelong governor, because this is an extraordinary guide and this isn't a praise, this is evidence, these are facts, I'm based on facts, so with your colleagues in the whole management, and on behalf of the state, on behalf of my children,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26231	National interests.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26232	A little patience, a little patience, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26233	on behalf of the family who lives here – thank you for keeping this monetary stability at this level and not being in ruin and total chaos and collapse today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26234	Let's agree, so we have the following point: a financial report from the Central Bank, so I suggest that after the debate on the second point, we give the governor the opportunity to answer some questions. And to you, Mr. Jovičić, congratulations on your new style. So, you've moved to conferences, congressional attitudes, etc. Bajazit Jašarević. I see, consultations with Vladičić were ongoing and so on. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26235	It's time for you to take me seriously once. If my club doesn't understand me, you at least. Thank you, too. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26236	Let's hear it from a colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26237	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I support the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH, and I would like this at this time if the Governor of the Central Bank, due to the financial crisis in the world, would explain to all of us that the Central Bank has gone through this crisis from the point of view of the foreign reserve investment policy. And, I would like to hear a review of this aspect, how to restore trust to the savings, when the guarantee will increase from the amount so far fixed to the amount that is like in the countries in the environment, and whether there is any thought of a guarantee to the unlimited amount of savings, because I am convinced that for many years it will be the best way to recover the banking system in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26238	... Kuzmanović. [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26239	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I also welcome the esteemed Governor of the Central Bank, I have only a few questions, as this report is for every commendation and congratulates the governor on the maintained monetary stability. I wonder if, given that the issue has often been circulating in the public lately, are the shareholders of the Central Bank of BiH and the entities and is it based on the fact that they belong to a certain portion of the distribution of profits? Also, I'd like to know if the transfer of money by commercial banks to their headquarters has been made, given that the numerous central banks that operate and on our market have experienced, let's not say, failure, but also severe financial results? And I'll also commend you on the rate of capital adequateness that is on average, it seems to me, 15.5% in commercial banks because, for example, our colleagues from Hungary only increased that rate to 10% just a few days ago, which means that banking stability of the banking sector has been maintained. I thank you, and I hope to receive answers from the governor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26240	Surely, I have a registered Džaferović, but I think this first question should have been asked here in Parliament. This Parliament passed the Central Bank Act on the basis of the Constitution, etc. But it's not a problem. The governor can answer that. 83 Gosapodin Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't think there's too much to spend when it comes to this annual Central Bank report. He is as good, actually as extraordinary as any who has come here to Parliament and we are already simply taught such a practice by Governor Kozarić and I are not surprised at all. I just want to remind you that these reports, I guess that's what they want it to be, is that they come at a time when very current topics appear in the Bosnian-Herzegovina public. I would remind you, last year, when we discussed the report, it was a topic: will it devalue the conversion mark in relation to the euro?, so we asked the governor a question, so he gave us answers to those questions. He said he wouldn't and, well, thank Bog he won't today. Although my colleagues have already in some way pointed out in their discussions a request to the governor to say a few sentences about this current interest situation or interest situation, I would ask him to refer in his address (I assume he will give answers to questions) to this policy that commercial banks have towards their commissioners, therefore to natural and legal persons, when interest rates are at stake and changing interest rates compared to already realised loans, and not paid, which are under way of payment, and also these new loans and what he thinks about what we do best to do in this situation. That's it, thank you. As much as, of course, the governor of the Central Bank can, this isn't his job to the end but from the sphere of that part of his jurisdiction. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26242	Here we go back to the agenda. I'm no longer registered for point 16. So, I'm closing the debate on point 16 and we're going to have a debate on point 17. Ad. 17. Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2008 financial report Then we'll give the governor of the Central Bank a chance to answer some questions, with what I'm saying, to reduce these praises a little bit, it's not good when they get too much praise, it's not always good, but there it is. The central bank works well, but of course there's room for even better. So I'm opening a debate on point 17. You received your report on March 31st. The Commission unanimously accepted the Financial Report. Have there been any reports of a financial report? There isn't. I am also concluding the debate on the Annual Report of the Central Bank and I am giving my word to the Governor of the Central Bank, Dr Kemal Kozarić, to comment and answer some questions. I hope 84 didn't get me wrong, so you don't have to brag too much, it doesn't always work out. Well, now we'll hear it and then he'll say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26244	Well, Mr. Chairman, the esteemed presidency, respected MPs and MPs, it is always an excellent honor and pleasure to have the opportunity to address you and I am really glad that the BiH Parliament has this attitude towards a monetary institution such as the Central Bank of BiH. The fact is that last year was for us, I would say, perhaps the most financially successful but certainly most challenging for the monetary institution, because we met with the indirect consequences of the financial crisis that has now gone to the economic crisis and I would say, by a limited number of instruments we have shown a certain level of responsibility and fulfilled our basic task, which is to keep the banking sector in BiH stable. I think we did these two things to the satisfaction of all BiH citizens and already, here's just one more information, and that was the question, I think it's also one of our biggest successes last year that we saved, I would say freely, all of the Central Bank's reserves of BiH, because six months before the financial crisis we changed our investment policy and moved all our deposits from commercial banks to European central banks and today our reserves are located in the Central Bank of Germany, France, Luxembourg and... bazelu, so we didn't have one fencing loss, while much stronger and much more capable suffered billions of losses. I certainly couldn't stand here calmly, because if there had been a minor loss for us, we would hardly have explained to our public what it was about. Still, I think it's one of the reasons why that monetary stability remained. Of course, in October and November of the month, we had one nervous citizen who appeared in raising a deposit of approximately 700 million KM and somewhere around cca 200 million returned to the canals. But it is obvious that the crisis in the world of trust and that this trust that MP Šarović was saying is being thrown and that it is certainly and in our banking sector it is an open question and that it will take time to regain that trust. On the other hand, when it comes to deposit insurance, we have an initiative and it is likely that this initiative will come to you on the agenda to withdraw one, I would say, 50m-euro IBRD fund which would be one of the bases for 50,000 levels of security deposits in KM, which would be another step in strengthening trust and strengthening the banking sector. On the other hand, the chairman has already responded, so the Central Bank Act, which is also Dayton, is whether,... the monetary position – the institution is that, the state institution of BiH and the law has been defined, which this parliament adopted, that 60% of the income is allocated to state institutions, 40% of the Central Bank's capital and we have done it and transferred it means 119.7 million to state institutions and means we have achieved the profits you have already heard, 199 million, which is also, whether, perhaps, the largest in BiH of all institutions, although you can hear from others that it is thanking the biggest, is whether, profits. Of course, we are not a profit organization and this year will be a diametrically different situation because on the market are much sharper conditions, less interest rates. And it wasn't just our skill, but it was really an air conditioning on the financial market that we had over 4% of the average... a contribution to the invested assets. But we did manage it very carefully, and I think it was security on the first level, and then just profit. 85 On the other hand, when it comes to interest rates, Džaferović asked the question, I am one of the first to say that there is a space, is it, to reduce interest rates, because obviously the capital on the European market has never been cheaper and that.... and all the other parameters, are going down, but the fact is that these foreign channels, where our commercial banks have been funded, have been interrupted. And now they're trying to make deposits on the domestic market and they've raised passive interest rates that are now on average 6-7% and that have an automatic impact on active interest rates. We are, of course, also talking at the Banks' Association and with commercial banks, but I must say that they are here – otherwise, the BiH Constitution in Article II said that BiH will operate on market principles – so here is supply and demand and, as long as there are those who take 10%, the interest rates will be at that level. So only when it is, is the less demand for such funds, will the situation result in the reduction of the interest. On the other hand, my suggestion was commercial banks and we'll do it to differentiate interest rates and that they can't be consumer loans or loans to citizens on the same level as for business and housing. There's safe space and I think... there's gonna be movement in that direction in due course. On the other hand, a colleague asked about the delivery of funds. We follow up on the bank's liquidity daily, and no commercial bank has been on the liquidity line for a day. So, they're highly liquid and they didn't bring out, most of them, again, were returning their credit lines -- but it's generally said they didn't export funds from BiH, and today we have over a mandatory reserve of 860 million KM commercial banks. We, by the last measure, when we reduced the mandatory rate from 10 to 7, released an additional 262 million to release precisely long-term resources so that they could credit the economy and the citizens. Of course, these are the private banks they have, whether their governing bodies and their shareholders and their policies, but I think it is very important and that countries that have maintained a healthy financial sector have been better off and responded to the crisis. Of course, the crisis hasn't passed yet, and it won't be long. And we in the next room here are having negotiations with the IMF, you will see that the situation is not good at all, and that the difficult decisions will be in front of the parallels, above all the entities, and, of course, before you, in order to achieve that monetary stability and not get into bigger problems. On the other hand, someone mentioned a course. We are on the principles of the Currency Committee where we are bound by the law that this Parliament has brought to the euro and the countries... which had the currencyality of the domestic currency had much bigger problems, and we still have one, I would say, security and that would be one big risk, because 70% of the loans of all of us, is indexed for the value of the euro, so it would be one real disaster if there was a devaluation in any direction, and we here again think that we will remain and that we have room to keep our domestic currency stable and that this will not be questioned. As far as the reserve is concerned, it's six billion today. The real growth rate last year was 5.5%, unfortunately, we have already entered the projection that it will have a negative growth of 1.8%. The industrial production rate last year had a growth of 15.4%, but today we have a decline of about 13% in the Federation, we have growth in the RS due to the start of the refinery work. Then the average salary at BiH level is 752 KM. The unemployment rate as one of the macroeconomic indicators, very complex, is 23.4%. Here you can see that there are layoffs happening, that it can be even more endangered. Foreign debt, let's say, which I think is one of the positive situations, where BiH is a moderately in charge of the country and has 4,190,000,000 external debt and is properly serviced; an current account deficit of 14.6% of the GDP, it may be lower in this situation because exports fell 22%, imports dropped 24% for the first three months; foreign direct investment of 1,300,000, we already see that those smaller, foreign figures, are our estimates that they will be less than 20%, so I think there will be a lot of problems in financing budget spending and... budget sustainability, here we are talking now where and what budget can be corrected and clearly all levels will have to return to some perhaps more realistic frameworks. As for the Central Bank, thank you for these kind words. We will perform our duty and continue, we are running out of mandate in August of the month, but... To the Central Bank, the Central Bank is a stable institution, there is a strong law passed by this parliament, and I deeply believe that people are able to lead this institution in the right way and that our citizens in BiH can trust that institution. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26245	I thank the Governor of Central Bank. I think it was very useful, except for the answer to your questions, we've received a series of data that are very useful. As far as the mandate is concerned, Mr. Jovičić, is that what you're saying about life, that we start it a little bit, etc. about these mandates, so this way. Is it a replica to me or to the governor?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26246	No, not the governor, the chairman. Explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26247	And the clarification, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26248	Oh, Mr. Chairman, you just said I don't praise them very much. But I just didn't want to say it, and now I'm gonna say it. You remember when the governor was that Piter nikol, so we thought when he left, everything went down. Isn't this proof that our people who know how to run the business, so we had last year's most successful. That's what I want to point out, affirm, what's worth. And it's not a compliment that I'm courting the governor, we've never had coffee together, right, ever. And we'll have a drink now. So, rather than really what's worth, which has a result, to praise. When Piter nikol left, all those who are supposed to be experts, they grab their heads, we're gone. Lucky he left early, never came.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26249	Slavko, I'm the last person you need to explain it to.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26250	It's a good thing no one's here to lead these people who know.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26251	It's okay. I thank the governor once again for, I say, useful information. In this way I also conclude debate on point 17. Financial report from the Central Bank. 87 We move to point 18. Ad. 18. Report on activities of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions Audit Office for 2008 We got the report on March 18th. It was examined by the Finance and Budget Committee. She unanimously accepted the report and proposed the following conclusion with the report: 'It requires the Co-ordination Committee, the Supreme Institutions for Audit to consider the possibility of a comprehensive financial audit of the RS institutions, the Federation of BiH which are in the jurisdiction of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of the RS and the Office for the Review of the Federation of BiH.' So we also have a proposal for one conclusion. I am opening a debate on the 2008 report on the activities of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions Audit Office. Let me remind you and say hello to Mr. Nekić, is that right, Chief Auditor of ours? If there's a need, there's a man. Please, I'm opening a debate. There's no argument. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 19. Ad. 19. 2008 Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency spending report
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26254	Just two sentences. So the Commission unanimously accepted this report. If you look at some of these classes: compared to the planned ones, 11% are on average less. There's nothing to say but that the presidency, according to us, has, in fact, introduced savings before the recession. If they introduced all the institutions like this, it would be good. In order not to confuse anyone, this is not a special report, no, the Finance Commission is doing all the reports, all the institutions, and on the basis of all the existing devices, a sumptuous one. So there's nothing special here. So, it's okay. 88 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26255	So, it's okay. Any further reports? Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26256	Thank you, Chairman. I would have just reported to you on your efforts and initiatives to finally get this report and we really see that nothing hurts to have a report like this and I have to admit that this report has been very well done. So to avoid debt, we can see from these table reviews that the ratio of the planned and spent funds in a good co-ordination and that the degree of execution is solid. What I would point to is my observation and some observations, meaning that the employees were spent 2,300,000, and the costs themselves... the travel costs were 826,000 and something, so obviously they didn't save much on travel costs. Now, we've got the same expenses down there that, in my opinion, are a little bigger than they should be. And what is missing in this report is the number of employees, the average salary and that some annuity that we expect in the next report and, in particular, the number of trips, means, where they went, that we see exactly where the costs were, the funds and why they went. And what we can all notice is that it's most likely been quite a journey, that the results of these trips to BiH are not expecting, that they do not have an enviable result. I thank you once again and expect the next report to be more concise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26257	I don't have any more reports and this is how I close the debate on item 19. A 2008 report on the spending of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency. Let's go to point 20. Ad. 20. Report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH for the period from 1. 1. 2008 to 16. 2. In 2009, with the proposal for a conclusion So on March 23rd, the State Commission submitted this report. On 24 April, the Commission delivered its Opinion on this report from this agenda point, and it also delivered in the content of the Opinion a proposal for a five-point conclusion, which I think I do not need to read to you because you have it in the Opinion. When we vote, we can do it again. So that's what it was necessary to say in the opening notes. 89 I have Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović's application. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26259	Madam Chairman, I would briefly refer to this report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Naturalisation Decisions in the sense that, of course, I support the work of this State Audit Committee and should certainly allow it to assume that it continues to work. But I am afraid that in the work so far, this commission has had a selective approach in one part to the revision of the citizenship of naturalised foreign citizens in BiH. Why am I saying this? Namely, this commission has begun its work and has made the first call to all citizens who have received BiH citizenship and are originating outside the territory of the former SFRY, which means from all countries that have come out of these countries that have fallen apart from Yugoslavia, which is good. And of course they did what they did, I hope they audited BiH citizens who got citizenship on any basis, whether by participation in the Armed Forces, based on marriage, based on birth, etc. and, I hope, for these participants too, the various armed forces that have been audited in BiH. However, the second call, the commission's second public invitation, has sent only those who have acquired citizenship in a specific place, which is the BiH Consulate in Munich, Studgart, Bon and Berlin. I ask the question: Why in these four consulates, meaning, from the territory of the former Yugoslavia but who gained citizenship in these four consulates. Does this mean that in Germany alone there are people in the area of the former Yugoslavia who have received Bosnian Herzegovina citizenship or is, I'm afraid, an evil intention in all of this? In addition, a public call was made on the advertising board of these four consulates. If we keep in mind that most of these citizens sought refuge in some third countries, Canada, the United States, Australia, etc., the question arises as to who they had asked there and whether it was a desire to carry out a review, or whether it was a desire not to report them, not to apply the documentation on the basis of which they received citizenship. And of course, the question is crucial, we have discussed these problems here once... where they have precisely stated that some institutions in BiH have provided the answer that due to the damage of the documentation, due to moisture, because they ate mice etc. – are unable to deliver. Isn't this kind of a biased attitude towards a particular face category? Why did this same commission not seek documentation, or information from the home offices: where the citizens' books are entered and on what basis are these citizens who have acquired citizenship, and from space are former Yugoslavia? I don't think I should be teaching them how to work. Of course they know that. But I'm afraid they haven't exhausted all the possibilities to get to the data, but it's just that it's just that it's been determined: "Eat the mouse documentation and there's none of it!" And of course, this third call that has not yet been published, which should be published and missing, which would cover the revision and verification of the admission to citizenship of persons from former SFRY, means, again, another call has artificially avoided the formulation and an invitation has been issued for persons admitted only to the BiH DKP in Germany where about 10,000 people are and where a number of Bošnjak have applied from Sandzak from former Yugoslavia. Since the previous two calls have been made regularly and by regulation, it is necessary to make a third. It is assumed that there are resistances to the publication of this 90th call in this commission, because it is mostly registered directly in the parent books of over 50,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been expelled or fled to BiH. Since the said number is already in BiH, everyone has probably regulated the issue of documents, i.e. They all got CIPS's ID cards and were regularly recorded in the CIPS database based on birth certificate and citizenship beliefs, which means there's no interference with getting biometric passports tomorrow, which is why I'm probleming this issue and proposing two short conclusions on behalf of the club. First: "The State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH is tasked to publish a third public call for persons who have received citizenship in BiH and from the area are former SFRY to deliver documentation on the basis of which they received BiH citizenship." And another conclusion: 'The State Commission is in charge of continuing the audit and of those cases where the documents are missing due to the damage, in a way that is required from the home offices on which the registration was made in the citizens' home book.' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26260	Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26261	Thank you. I'll do it very briefly. So on page 3 of this report, the Ministry of Administration and Local Self-Government of the Republic of Slovenia says, among other things, 'In the record of the transfer of case files from the Ministry of Administration and local self-government, it was found that the same did not hand over 465 items of the file to the persons to whom bh. citizenship allocated to naturalisation." This is the Vice-President of the Commission. I think he might answer: For which reasons these cases are not handed over to the State Commission for the Review of Citizenship and the other reports show that everyone who has been asked to surrender is. Here, and the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia has handed over all their cases except for this Ministry of Administration and local self-government. For what reason, therefore, are these 465 cases not handed over to this State Commission for the Review of Citizenship? I think you could answer that question directly here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26262	Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26263	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, I support the work and report of this committee, but also given that we are making this law, given that for this year around the State Commission has carried out a review procedure of 1,639 files where 304 cases have been decided to take away citizenship, 1,335 has been confirmed, and also here it is concluded that there are 25,249 files or items left to be updated in order to see how many others there are. And, from this great figure, I'd say, you can see how much more work there is. What is very important from the aspect of human rights in BiH is that in no case should a selective approach be made to confiscation of citizenship and that this commission must establish mechanisms that 91 of this will not be in the future. One of the proposals that could be heard on this commission is that when these cases are updated, a record is made after the date of admission into BiH citizenship and that such a single order is the order of procedures for the revision of citizenship. I think that would be one logical sequence, so we don't get into a situation where we do this audit in a selective way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26264	I have no more reports and this is how I conclude the debate on item 20. Moving to point 21. Ad. 21. Work report and Financial Report of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Postage Transport Agency for 2008 We got the report on March 15th. The Commission for Transport and Communications shall be responsible. We received our opinion on 6 April and, as you have seen, the report on work was unanimously accepted and proposed to Parliament to adopt it. I am opening a debate on the Work Report and the Financial Report of the BiH Post Traffic Agency for 2008. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. I've been reported in the last second. Remzija Kadrić. Here you go, Mr. Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26266	I thank you, Chairman. So, given that the president of the Agency's Council is here, I would ask that... he answer our question when it comes to this report on the activities of this agency. On page 3. 'By considering this issue... of licensing,' they say among other things, 'at the specified time, when a request was sent to meet the requirements for licences, except for three existing public postal operator already registered for the provision of reserved and unreserved postal services,... the other operators did not apply for the authorisation of these licences. I'd like him to tell us what operators are doing here, who don't have a license to do these jobs and in such a way that we know who does it by law and who doesn't do it by law, who does postal services in accordance with regulations and who doesn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26267	Mr. Čorić, if you have a chance, go ahead. So, Mr. Nino Čorić, president of the Agency's Council. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26268	Mr. President, I welcome you, thank you for asking. So last year on page 2. We therefore say that we have made a decision and regulation, that is, the procedure by which postal service providers or postal traffic operators should apply within a certain time limit for licensing for the provision of postal services. We felt that it was 30 days from the day of publication and we felt, therefore, that we were also delivering the Regulation on amendments and amendments to the Regulation, in order to extend that deadline. Except for these three public postal operators, the other postal service providers did not report for licensing. Three public postal operators actually have the license and the basis of the law and that analogy we took certain activities in accordance with the possibilities given by the law, so we co-ordinated activities along with entity inspections to certain business entities. We received feedback, and it was in this report that we pointed out that this coordination, and we saw, today's point of the 6th new Post Law puts exactly that as a sign of the question. Of course we wanted to bypass these things, so we initiated... along with the state-level resolution ministry, along with the entity-restrictive ministries and entity inspections that are relevant to the fact that according to certain business entities, certain actions are taken, the law of the envisaged actions. We have received information about certain companies, so among other things, and the Competition Council is also conducting certain procedures against these companies. Of course, in the next period, if we have another meeting in the next month, where we will receive more complete information. ... I would like to say, therefore, that the story of licences is not a story created by the founding of the Post Office but is a story based on the Licensing Regulation, the entity rules on the 2004 licensing of the Federation. We have received feedback from entity ministries, therefore, that even before our regulations and decisions were made, no one except public postal operators reported to the license. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26269	Thank you. You're free to go to the scene, so if there's any need to clarify the other provisions. Ambassador Branko Dokić has now called for a discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26270	Thank you very much. So I am not speaking on behalf of the Commission but on my own behalf. An unacceptable explanation is why there was no licensing, nor is it acceptable that three public operators did not get a licence, since it is reportedly licensed by the automation of the law. I think there are objections about all three public operators that have been granted a license and, believe me, for the next report that will also adopt this home, I will deliberately argue that the question of what this agency is doing is seriously raised, if it is not already doing so. I can understand the reason that they had difficulty setting up, working conditions, etc. etc. But in the fact that they don't have to give 93 licenses, there's absolutely no justification, and I'm saying, here, that from this position through the parliamentary issues, unless this issue is resolved in the next few months, I'm going to ask questions about what the Post Office is doing. You have an analog or similar situation when the State-level Communication Act was adopted, when a similar agency was formed at the state level. All three public telecommunications operators received the first fixed network permit as it was, the area left behind afterwards. So, you create without giving them licenses, without giving them other licenses, you create conditions that are unlicensed, that they all exist as they already have, but then we ask the question that we have formed you, what do we have you for. So this is, in my opinion, a very serious question that I hope, of all three public operators will come through or individual MPs or together that must be resolved very quickly. Because once again, there is no valid reason why no licenses would be issued and therefore no licences have already been issued for all three public operators. One way to protect them through and legal some solutions, with all respect to the openness of the market, is that, and given the state of all three public operators, we will all have to make sure that very sensitive areas don't remain, as I say, uncovered by postal services, because commercial operators are only interested in where they can have big profits, and these are big cities. If we don't protect public operators, we'll have a large number of villages that won't be covered by postal services. And this is a very, very serious question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26271	Thank you. The next for discussion is Honourable MP Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26272	Well, I didn't mean to discuss it, but there was a clear question here: what kind of operators didn't ask for a license? We know they're three domestic operators. They got but they were supposed to look again and there was no reason not to give them that, or... But who are the others who are working and did not ask for a license? Is this about DHL mail, etc. Or it's about public enterprises that now mail to their couriers. Therefore, gentlemen, in the Agency that we have, I expect you to take over from the Agency which will effectively bring into order and into the law all those who want to deal with traffic, postal traffic in BiH. And I don't think there's any excuse for that if you couldn't do them in some way, I'd say, either challenge their work or simply have to pay you and get a license so that you can work easier too. This is why I ask you, is this about DHL... and this other one, or is this about these public companies that are now all sending to their mail couriers and you know that the court does not accept if it is not the mail press in the memo when it comes to the lawsuit, so I ask you for only one explanation and I agree with Mr Dokić that there is no reason why the Agency can't do its job and if it could do so and if you don't know then ask how it can be taken down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26273	Mr. Bahtić just answered. Here you go. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26274	I've been offered a little bit of this discussion, and the Agency is doing the same people from the profession, so I think they know that much better than we do. I think they know that. It's point 6 and that postal traffic law, it's the main problem and the Agency's work because they can't continue, there's no mechanism, there's no inspection, there's nothing, they're all doing it in black. He doesn't want a license. I know in Bihaq, I'm personal, it seems to me a firm in a haustor once, MHS, there's never a man, there's a man's name, all wildly engaged. I've also reported to the D.A. and the Cantonal Labour Inspectorate and the M.O.P., and I'm writing everywhere. When there's no control, there's no inspection, there's nothing, and that's why we need state law on post office and state-level inspections, so that's the kind of thing. Then only this agency will work in full light and earn and finance itself based on these licenses, and not now live on three operators and on budgets. I think the three of them... should be given support. Here, they spread, as far as I can see, and they're getting new workers, they can work. It is up to us, we need to enable and pass laws that they can do their jobs. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26275	I don't have any more applications for discussion. However, Mr. Čorić, do you have a need? You don't. I'm closing the discussion. Moving to the 22nd item of the agenda: Ad. 22. Report on the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency Management Board for 2008 The report was delivered to Parliament on 1 April. It was examined by the competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. The Commission proposes to the House to adopt a report on the work of the Management Board of the Export Credit Agency. I'm opening a debate. Niko one checked in. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 23rd point of the agenda: Ad. 23. Report by the Interim Joint Commission on determining the old foreign savings of BiH citizens placed on domestic banks' and branches' accounts in BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I feel called to give a few arguments on behalf of this commission who chose me as some working coordinator, on a very sensitive and very difficult issue that has not been able to resolve for so many years and someone seems to have expected that an ad hoc commission will solve all these issues. I'm not going to assure you now how hard it has been to work on this committee, given the variety of data we've received and how many times we've insisted, and more times than the same institutions, that the data is being delivered to us and, here, this is the result. I'm not going to convince you now how hard it has been to work on this committee now, given the colourfulness of the data we've received and how many times we've insisted on, over and over again from the same institutions, that the data is being delivered to us and, here, this is the result of our work so far ahead of you. I would draw your attention, turn to the last two pages of this text that came from this remaining one. You can see all of this as contributions from committee meetings and contributions that we have provided based on reports that we have received from individual institutions. First of all, this commission found out from this data that the amount of old foreign exchange savings is correct: 2,308,114.741 KM, by expressing the reserve according to this data and we cannot claim that the data is correct, since the competent institutions have supplied different data. I'm now speaking on those points, three points are given to us in the task: one to determine the total old foreign savings, the second point is to determine the old foreign savings by 1. Six. In 2007, and we weren't able to determine it, because based on that data, we shouldn't even be able to say it framely, that's how much. The fact is, here and in this report it is said that so far only 85,138 savings have been verified, and 32,060 of them have been paid according to the data that we have received so far, and that is 90,464,000 and more. When you look at the total foreign savings, you see how symbolic that is. We did not deal with the percentage of the percentage of the verified savings but the fact, for all the reasons we considered and what we had, that it could be estimated that the verification or verification process was unsuccessful, that the savings had no confidence for these or those reasons in the verification and that very few savings were verified. That is why one of the views of this committee is that verification or being a permanent process or that it is completely abolished, and this cannot be done by our conclusion of Parliament, but must be done by changing the law and, as you have seen, this commission suggests that under urgent access or making new laws or amendments to the existing law which has respected this fact. The Commission through its conclusions – I mean, you have the conclusion on the last page here – suggests that these new changes are not about verification, but about the process of levelling the situation in the accounts of old foreign savings with the owners or their successors, which would be significantly fairer, etc. etc. 96 One of the key views recommended by this Commission to Parliament is expressed in the following sentence: 'The interim joint commission believes that any future solution to the problem of old foreign savings must come from the fact that it is private property and that all solutions to old foreign savings must respect the European Convention on Human Rights and the Human Rights Court decisions in Strasbourg.' You know that there are a large number of lawsuits, that there is an indication that all this is about this that it is not in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, you know that it is an integral part of the Constitution of BiH and that it is above all other points, above all other laws in BiH, and I think that Parliament should listen to this message from the Interim Commission to face this one serious fact that no one can dispute... which practice on resolving these issues has so far not respected. So, it is our message that all the solutions that are further worked go from these three facts: that this is private property, that the European Convention on Human Rights must be respected on all matters, including on this issue, and that the decisions of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg must be respected. This sentence was not concluded just because the members of the Interim Commission felt it was meant to be, so some insisted at least that it be written in this previous section to remind all those working on these issues that they had to understand the fact that here should be understood, but unfortunately, once again I say, the practice has been that this notor fact had not been understood. I think that through these conclusions one shift has been made, if we follow the conclusions afterwards, I would say, and a significant shift, a significant shift, because here we are speaking and therefore mentioning the issue of the leveling and the question of the heirs and the question of any other private property, and the questions of addressing the court, if the owners or heirs of the owner are not satisfied with what they get and here we are opening the question and insisting that where the missing documents have been issued duplicate these documents, we point out through the conclusions that every institution in BiH that deals with this issue is bound to issue documents, etc. I need to distract your attention and page supplemental. So this is where one correction is made which, on the 15th page, before the conclusion of this point 4 is converted practically into conclusions. And on page 16 of this point 2 of point 2 of this point (2) is deleted and, for reasons of correctness, I have to explain why this correction occurred. In fact, don't think it was easy to come to such conclusions, given that it was difficult and one of those, but I am not the only one who insisted that the report go to Parliament, so I am not the only one, but I was the most insistent, because I felt in some way the most responsible. And then, after one meeting where there really was a vote on all the proposals, it seems to me that I'm dealing with the circumstances of the three of us, colleagues Bahtić, Jukić and I, since we had a home tomorrow, we're in charge of the secretary just to verify from this record. And all three of us agreed to what you got without correction, and here I still think most of them voted for this. Some of the members then insisted, in particular, they insisted that this second position be deleted which I will read to you, which is very important to me: "The question of securities of value should be regulated so that they are acceptable to the savings, which means a fixed maturity, guaranteed cash payment, as well as the possibility of using other payout modes before maturity, in accordance with the market conditions of business." Those who were advocates... had in mind and justified the request of savings, so that was also the formula, but then it was said: it can be treated here, by which... the solution of this issue should allow the privatisation of 97 old foreign exchange, purchase of state capital, apartments, business premises, payment of construction land, agricultural land, payment of construction and construction equipment, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26279	Mr. Dokić, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26280	Well, let me, we've been working...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26281	I'll allow it, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26282	I'll be right there. I'll be done soon.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26283	Make sure the MPs remind me immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26284	Okay. Here in half a minute, I promise. Finally, it is the Commission's proposal that the House of Representatives or both, the Parliamentary Assembly form a committee together with the Council of Ministers which would urgently approach the making or new or addition of the old and existing Law on Old Foreign Savings, which would then come from the European Convention on Human Rights, the judgment on this matter in Strasbourg, the Constitutional Court's decision, because there were, of course, opportunities that exist and then open a new page in this approach with, once again, proposals and suggestions that... this issue should be treated as a question of personal property relations. I think it's very important that I stress that. Thank you for the trust he gave us, and you know very well that I resisted being on that committee at all. I was, I did everything possible on both the professional and the human side to be satisfied with the solutions and to save, and they, I see, are very unhappy. I can personally say that I feel for their problem, this is a really big problem, this is one of the biggest injustices in the country that many people, a large number of people in BiH, are doing. But an individual there is nothing capable of any future and further solutions, possibly, suggestions, I ask you to excuse me, because I have exhausted all of my individual possibilities through this. Whether this is right or wrong, have him evaluate who's meant for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26285	Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26286	Here I am... really very short. First of all, I understand the real difficulties that this commission must have faced in its work and it is certain that it has been very difficult to obtain accurate data, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to some consensus within the Commission itself when it comes to some proposals for concrete measures. But it should also be said that this commission, it seems to me, 98 has been unnecessarily working to do these effects that we have received in this report. The fact is, in 2008 in five months, this commission has not met once. So, out of those 12 months, five months, there's been no meeting of this committee. Of course, we can appreciate that during that period there were activities in the collection of documents, that there was documentation waiting, etc., but the fact is... that this commission worked means about 15, 16 months and that in those 15, 16 months it managed to obtain data that itself is not sure whether or not the Temporal Commission is giving us with the reserve, because it also got them from those who shouldn't mean they have them with the reserve. They got it, they gave it to them as backup data. There are several serious findings, especially this one that the verification failed and that the amendments to the law should be resolved. So that question, or whether or not this process is going on or to be abolished, is really a serious problem, and I think that this and such issues should have been in the work of the committee responsible, our meaning of the parliamentary commission,... to pay more attention to this commission, not to this committee, but to the committee responsible for this report. I, as far as I'm concerned, support the findings, means from 1st to 4th. I think it's important that some of these questions be paid special attention. But also these people won't have much use for what's written like this, better said, they won't benefit at all from this. So, in conclusion, we will say that the Parliamentary Assembly calls on BiH institutions, unfortunately, does not create any obligation for these competent institutions to do the job. Well, I don't see why the position (2) of this conclusion 2 was at all controversial, given that it was only a call to the competent institutions, and in no case is an imperative, it means where someone gets the obligation to end something. After the work of this commission, as well as the previous commissions related to this issue, and a number of laws that were rejected here in the parliamentary procedure and are also related to old foreign savings, as well as to a number of laws proposed by the Council of Ministers, they once went towards a reduction of deadlines, although they always had an explanation that it was not possible to do so, in order to get a new amendment proposal after a year which showed that it was possible to cut those deadlines and more than it was then claimed that it was not possible. So, given all this, I think it would be very difficult for some special temporary or parliamentary task force to now make a law that would have all of this that we're talking about right now, to have in mind. Perhaps it would be better if we had made the principles and tasked the competent ministry to propose legislation on these principles or to take care of those principles. It seems to me that, if we were to make things clearer, because I'm afraid that in this parliamentary task force itself, we would lose a lot of time again, and we wouldn't come, we wouldn't come as hard as we've come to conclusions, we'd be even harder to come to some legal solutions. And that's why I'm closer to the possibility that this conclusion, meaning, is formulating differently, but I think that today, even, it seems impossible to determine the principles, but it is possible to assign this Interim Joint Commission to prepare the principles that would be adopted as special and tasked then by the Ministry to propose on these principles in the parliamentary procedure of the law. As far as the first conclusion, of course, is that everything that can help us get as accurate data as possible, I support it, even if it's being betrayed, means where there isn't, where there aren't those savings books that now the institutions that have the data provide that data, and not only means this, but everything that can possibly be helped to get to the correct data, I think it's logical to support Parliament here. Of course, if someone expected this Interim Joint Commission to solve the issue of old foreign savings, it wasn't logical. Because we have not even given such a task to these people, we have given them the task of establishing the state of old foreign exchange savings and proposing measures, so certain measures that we can take, so by respecting these measures, 99 we can go in some direction to intensify this issue, actually to solve this issue, on the one hand. And, on the other hand, to make some harmonisation that the same regulations apply to all old foreign currency savings, regardless of what part of BiH they were in today. It would be very important if we did and if this were the consequence of this commission's work. Then, in my opinion, we've done enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26287	Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26288	Dear President, colleagues, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, we have talked a lot about this topic in this House so far, but unfortunately here is the report that has done very little. People, here are still here, we owe more than 2 billion marks. We ran out of payments 18 years ago. Imagine if someone owed us 2 billion marks and had to pay us back 18 years ago so that we would all behave together in such a situation or translate it individually to one of us, that someone owed you (we 42 split 2 billion, so much money) – how would we react? We're witnessing that people are killing themselves for 50, 100,000 marks of uncleared accounts and we can be very pleased that old foreign currency savings are patient that they can wait so long. The report, as counterpart Novaković said, is unlikely to result in something concrete, especially this correction. I suggest that today we have no need to adopt or adopt, but to see if we have the desire and will to pay people back. It's a simple thing. We owe them because we're in charge, we have something to pay them back because the state has enough property and tools. There's only one power plant that can settle people's entire debt. We say you're shareholders from tomorrow and a settled debt. We end it all in one day or a series of other state or tax companies that we haven't collected, which we could collect. So I suggest we pay people back their debt. To do so quickly, effectively, to one conclusion, which would read: 'A group for making amendments and supplementing the Law on the settlement of obligations under the account of old foreign exchange savings, with one representative of each political party from the Parliamentary House of BiH' (I consider that here we should not share in either position, or opposition, nor seek the responsibility of individual parties, but that we have one consensus on this matter) 'which will start working within 15 days, and within 60 days in cooperation with associations in this area to make amendments and supplement the Law and propose a House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The group will work on the Rules of Procedure under which the Committees of the House of Representatives work, and let's try to solve this problem, because apparently no one has the capacity in this country, except us here, to solve this problem. I don't think delegation to the Council of Ministers or to any function will yield results, because there is no political force there that can solve this. Because this is neither a legal nor an economic issue, this is an explicit political issue. Do we have a political decision to pay people back, then it's all simple? If we don't have a political decision to pay people back, then problems arise in all areas. Here, I would also ask you to adopt one such conclusion and try to end this agony of people. Thank you. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26289	Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26290	I will briefly, I also had this issue on the Finance and Budget Committee several times and I was a member of this Interim Joint Commission. Believe me, this Parliament and the College have given the Interim Joint Commission concrete tasks what to do. It means: to determine how real the old currency savings and number 2 are to propose certain measures. We had these x meetings with all relevant institutions, with all ministries from all levels, were present and old foreign currency savings. I understand them and they're right, and this commission has also suggested that it's an obligation, maltene, that it's private property, that the state should pay it back and none of it escapes. We suggested here are our three conclusions because I, as ordinary savings citizens, followed by the work of this commission, called me and, believe me, in Krajina there are many of these small savings and they were about to go immediately to pay off, this tiny bit of thousands to two thousand marks, and that this other one goes to bonds, as RS did (now, this colleague, another colleague, means there is none). I think that would solve a lot of small savings with that move. Also the main remark,... and there is this commission proposed to go into amending and supplementing the law, that it... or abolish, absolutely unnecessary, or be in a permanent process. So, we took care of what they saved... the most disputed. We know how... how long it's about. We've established about 2 billion and 300. We also know that the state has that obligation and recognizes that debt, and it will certainly pay. And we know that, you see now that it was the privatisation of banks, that it was the obligations of old foreign currency savings, that someone had consciously put into subsidisation and that our banks were sold into incompetence, that the foreigners had bought banks, and that the liabilities were to the rest of the state. The state will now pay instead of these banks which now, you see, are doing what they're doing. In my opinion, no one's gonna go out and meet them. Also, one of the sub-conceives was optional: let's see what the Council of Ministers is, the resolution ministry, what has been done so far on the debt of the Ljubljanska Banka and Invest Banka Belgrade. We know there's something about 780 million and 185 million here, so far our government has done nothing about it. And they're so bound up, they're right. However, we also know, here and now there is recession and crisis and before that, here, the RS has already begun the process, I think we should do what we can. And we can, I think these solutions offer some kind of shift compared to earlier, first of all, that verification. They call me too, believe me, there are as many as you want, because people have come here, I can't even pay the membership fee anymore, the lawsuit has to pay, the small ones are saving. They're more interested in getting a thousand marks, two in cash and getting a bond, not chasing around the court to pay... so much... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26291	Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26292	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I think this issue is much more complex than we want to admit to ourselves here and that whenever we talk about it nicely, we do not get results that are acceptable to old foreign currency savings. I must admit that I am offended by the letter I received from the Association of Old Foreign Savings. And I thought that when I got it to ask you that when you read that someone in such an offensive language wrote a letter 101 that you wouldn't share it with us and that you would let us know that an offensive letter came, so let whoever wants to read it read it. Thus, dialogue cannot be achieved in such a way that can lead to results. I am therefore convinced... that this commission has worked responsibly and had no intention of getting there these accompanying supplements as stated in that letter and I must say I would especially like to commend the members of this committee when they have not responded to such a provocation. I think they have come to the only possible conclusion if anyone were in that committee in front of Parliament that they have given one platform for possible exit from this situation, with the fact that I would like the President of the Interim Commission, or the Chairman, to reconsider the third conclusion with this committee, given the proposed conclusions and the views of the Savings Association. The interim joint commission proposes to the Parliamentary Assembly to establish a working group that will also be established for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to submit a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the settlement of obligations based on the old foreign currency savings account. I think the intention is good, but as long as we avoid the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers, now that we have the Fiscal Council, and the Fiscal Council, we will not reach what is an acceptable solution for both BiH and old foreign savings, for the savings representatives. I think that this group has not only a political issue, and if it is on the group to do the law, then it will have to involve the Ministry of Finance, because this is a very complex mathematics: that people will be compensated, and that the state remains in such a difficult time to perform all its functions in accordance with constitutional competences. And if it's much less than 2 billion, it's also a complex question. So now everything that weighs more than 10 million KM anywhere in BiH is complicated and any false promises only puts people in a position to continue to negotiate too hard. So, if it is a parliamentary group, let's see if the parliamentary group and the finance ministry are. So we simply have to be supported with great responsibility for the budget of the entities in charge of such payment, if we do not go that way. We had one return in vain, we'd come back in a position to put ourselves in a position to choose between two evils and not be able to choose any good solution. So, it would be a good idea if this commission added that as a conclusion, because then we could simply support these conclusions. If this commission we have formed remains in this position to do so by a parliamentary group, I and I support it because I think that the commission will know how important it is to include those responsible for fiscal stability throughout BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26293	Jerko Ivanković, replica. Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26294	My colleagues before this letter we got.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26295	My colleagues before.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26296	This letter we got from the Savings Association, I'm experiencing that it's not only directed to the members of this committee but to all of us. I'm experiencing it being directed to me, that we here are wasting 102 dollars working, and we're not solving people's problems. And I'm not offended at all, because being somebody 18 years of money, not giving back and not even telling him the deadline when you're going to pay him back -- that it was in the letter and the bomb shouldn't surprise us, because it's such an alarming situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26297	Sadik Ahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26298	Well, I have to replicate,...I never replicated to Mr. Ivanković, but the story is that someone who will vote for you in 2010, Mr. Ivanković, is not a story. We are also in charge here to protect both the Constitution and the fiscal stability of the country and everything the Constitution of BiH requires. And also to make commitments to the people to whom we have obligations. So, you're just looking at one thing, you're just looking at that segment of people who, in October 2010, take a pen and go to the polls and vote. That's how you look at politics in this House. And I don't think that's good. So, I don't think that's good, and we're all here watching the story just like the war wasn't '91. A year. Imagine a man who had 100,000 marks and '91. Years invested in his house and she burned him down, '92. I picked up the book, the one didn't pick up, this one now has, the state now has a responsibility to this one, the other one doesn't. Not to mention other material and immaterial damages in BiH that this country has not yet met, nor can it fulfill. Because he doesn't have that kind of money, he doesn't have that much money to fill it. So let's look at the real political opportunities in BiH, the total opportunity in BiH. That way we can help these people and all of us. Every other story is a story that's a story for October 2010.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26299	Replica, Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26300	So, I was going to suggest that we take a responsible approach to finding a solution in a situation like this, and then, when I'm called this way, I have to say that I understand that we've all won, and that's why I called, I wouldn't otherwise... I wish there was never a word here that was rough, sharp, when it had to be. But sometimes words of hate in speech appear here, and it's especially dangerous when it comes to writing. We'd have to have it as a special task not to do it to ourselves, because we can't do it then, we're getting cramped. That's one thing. And the other thing, even if it caused a replica, is probably there, then I would say to this commission that 500 million support for agriculture every year in the budgets that Mr. Jerko Ivanković Lijanović proposes every year and a half 100 marks to go out to the elections would also be appreciated, so when he puts that 500 million for agriculture and 200, 300 million for the elections, he should put foreign currency savings there. And then we're going to remember what else someone suggested here and then we're going to put it all in order, and then we're going to sort it out, and here as responsible people, we're going to choose which order to solve it. It's not even popular anymore, because it's transparent, it's so transparent, it's not even popular. It's not even foggy anymore, because it's too sold so you can't even see that fog anymore. This is about who is ready to sit down and talk responsibly – what can be done about what can be done. One who promises to keep making promises, but I am therefore obliged to protect myself when it comes to such a language. 103 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26301	Let's move on with the replicas, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26302	Well, you see, a little by little, we've come to the point that the position of the rose opposition when it proposes solutions to what the position has not done. When we first passed the law that defined this question, then the Council of Ministers assured us that it could not be less than 13 years to return the old foreign exchange savings. Then, gentlemen, we asked for the deadline of seven years, and then all the associations of the old foreign savings dealing with this issue were ready to accept a seven-year-old. And then we were persuaded by the Council of Ministers that we couldn't do it because we would undermine the monetary system and destroy it – Mr Belkić knows it – and destroy the BiH state, so that only two years after that the Council of Ministers would propose seven years, only two years after that, Mr Ahmetović, the same ones who told us there was no way to do it. This way of defending the country's monetary stability was unfortunately brought to this day and unfortunately gave Mr Ivanković the right to speak as well. Well, if that was settled then, we wouldn't have had it as a problem today. Of course, I'm not defending Mr Ivanković in any way, especially I'm not his lawyer, but I want to say that my colleagues are wrong when they talk about it this way. I'm not fighting for any vote in 2010, I just want to remind us what happened in the last four years here in Parliament with that question. If we had heard before, then if we had heard, we wouldn't have had that problem today. We didn't have any hearing, and let's just admit that we didn't and let's try to get out now. I think it's a bad variant, I repeat, I think it's a bad variant of a parliamentary working group, I think it's a better variant, I agree with my colleagues, it's a better variant that there is, of course, the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance, etc. which will lead to this account, but in a way that we here define the principles that they cannot step down from. So, that is, that is my suggestion, I have made such a proposal of conclusion and made: our principles and their obligation to make a law according to our principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26303	Jerko Ivanković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26304	Well, here's what I don't usually have a lot of replicas or answers to, but here's just a few suggestions. This country has taken over its rights and obligations. We're entitled to all our assets, I just mentioned three power plants, they're paid back to people, they're now owned by the state, they'll be owned by foreign savings, and they'll be left with a lot of money, and we've solved the problem now. I will continue to propose 500 million for agriculture until we adopt it, because it is necessary for this country. Just on the box of Ronhill that was... in front of the factory where the product was produced was 4 KM, and now it's 5, and here we have another 2 KM, and only on that brand, brand and a half, and here we have 500 million marks. 200 million to get people out of the election? And I'm going to propose that until it's adopted, because I also think it's the right thing to do, and it's not questionable whether there's money, because it's obvious that this country has inherited so much property that it can solve it all. I understand that there is not enough 104 courage and strength to catch up with these problems and deal with it. That's why I said it's not a legal, legal or economic issue, but an explicit political issue, so I suggest we don't give it to the Council of Ministers, because there's not enough political power to get rid of it. So I think this home has enough political power to make one group to try to make changes and supplement this law in 60 days, to bring it into line with associations and to do it in action because what we adopt here is going to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26305	Here, I've got more signed up for the replica. It would be good if we could work out how long we're going to work. It's 5:30, so let's work out how long we're gonna work, break up and move on tomorrow. So, 17.30 – are we going to work by 6pm, we're going to interrupt and we're going to continue tomorrow? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26306	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I did not report for two reasons today, one reason we have been on this issue so many times
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26307	Excuse me, is there a replica with you?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26308	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26309	Well, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26310	The colleagues... who have criticised certain performances, whether the Savings Association, or certain MPs. So, I haven't called to discuss today for two reasons, one reason we're
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26311	Please give me a replica, don't discuss it now, give me a replica. Who's the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26312	Mr. Chairman, allow me to use my three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26313	And give me the line. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26314	And this is a replica, I'm about to say a replica. ... One reason is so many times we've talked about it here that it's more degutant to talk about it, another reason is that I own the old foreign currency savings myself and that you wouldn't be in conflict of interest is to talk about it. I think this is the way to talk about other people's property at the very least inappropriate. When I say that, then I have two things in mind. One thing is: gentlemen, where did that old foreign savings go? Who is she, who is she, where did she go? It wasn't someone who spent or spent it, it was someone who, among other things, and these current people in the current government of this country. And if someone's on the outside, you know who that someone is. We don't have an answer to that question here until today. Secondly, gentlemen, we in this country have seized everything that was state property, which was worth something, and then we didn't think of the owner of the old foreign savings, whether it was housing, whether it was state property, attractive and other species. We had a hundred model to solve this issue. And now we're surprised that people react this way. They're right and I agree to react in this way. And I'm not going to get into it, we have the right to speak as ambassadors, to talk about it and to support people or not to support them. So I don't agree with colleagues who see these demands in some way destructive motives, destruction of the state or so. - that's not absolutely true. And it's unprincipled, incorrect in such a way that people here are being blackmailed, people labeling. I also propose to find, although it has been a long time, all trains have passed, to appoint a particular working group or commission expert, or what I know, which will propose solutions in this present situation. I didn't verify myself or verify myself, because it's an insult to me, it's humiliation to me, I'd rather give it away. It's my belief that these other people, too, don't want to be verified for those reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26315	Discussion, Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26316	It's not a discussion, it's a replica short...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26317	Here's the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26318	Mr. Jašarević, in order to be as brief as possible, I think this is the letter that the savings wrote very politely, according to how they were supposed to write. And I think that Jašarević here is the last man who needs to hold a letter to them about how they should write. Because he knows perfectly well, if he doesn't know about other banks, even if he knows the Tuzlan Bank in which way and how the New Tuzlan Bank was sold to the Slovenac, to make it a New Tuzlan Bank, and the savings are walking around the halls... this way. So I speak a very clear language. Mr. Jašarević was involved in that story around Tuzlaska Banka. Tuzlaska banka is bought for certificates, sold, and now writes the New Ljubljana Bank. The savings of the Ljubljanska Banka have remained on the streets and there is a question left that this 106 parliament has never answered: Where are the money from those banks and what are they looking for? Therefore, every proposal here that goes in favor, so let us be again accused of fighting for the vote, is a vote fight so that we can settle this, not to sit here and lose our days and listen to the ruling coalition outsmart and bicker. Yeah, so we're gonna tell a story they like to hear and tomorrow we're gonna deal with it, and we're not gonna sell the Tuzlan Bank for 300 or 400 thousand marks in certificates, and then we're gonna make 30 or 40 million dollars in it and pretend like nobody knows anything. Therefore, you have full support and you are very mild in the language you write and you are very mild in procedures. Motka can only handle this. Where's the money? Where's the money from the banks?- I'm sorry. When will we get the final answer: Where is the money? Who stole all these banks and where is the BiH banking system?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26319	Thank you. Bajazit Jašarević, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26320	So, uh...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26321	Please, you'll just continue, people are still coming forward... Mr. Lizalović. Here you go, Mr. Jašarević. What about you?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26322	I understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26323	It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26324	...of General Sefer Halilović, I understand him very much. He's been speaking in hate language for months, and I never wanted to replicate his hatred. I'm not sure she's ever gonna solve anything for the hooks, and let her try and figure it out. And I'll never replicate to him again. I'm just surprised that a man of such a form has this much hatred in him, and Bog has given him the opportunity to be a great man. Think of the general if he speaks of hatred for Bošnjak as less dangerous hate than hatred for other nations. Any hatred is a very dangerous hatred. It's a good thing he's focused on Bosniaks. We understand him sometimes, but we ask him to protect himself, us, he can't do anything to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26325	Branko Dokić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26326	Sure, I'll do it sooner. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26327	It'll work sooner, won't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26328	I'll be the answer in the end to say...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26329	Here you go, Mr. Halilović. Of course, he can do anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26330	Mr. Jašarević, I don't speak hate language, I speak the language of fact. The fact that those facts hit you in the head, that's your problem, and it's not mine. And make sure that at least in this room and certainly in public there are a number of people who, when it comes to Tuzlan Bank, know exactly what happened. And the public in BiH must one day get an answer to the question of where the money from the banks is. The banks were stolen... and in the end nobody knows anything. And it's not just, it's not just foreign currency savings, it's damaged the economy because the economy had money in the banks, and that's the point of the question. If you see it as hate for Bošnjak, that's your problem. I speak the language of fact. And I don't need any courtship from the Bošnjak or the Srbin or the Hrvat. I speak the language of the facts, who likes them, who don't like them, that's their problem. But I proved my Bosniakity and the Bosnianism when it was meant to be and I was in the right place when it was supposed to be. I didn't ask for basements or abroad. And my whole family was here and half my family unfortunately got hurt, thanks to the love of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And don't ever talk to me like that again. And you, your opinion, keep what you're... not interested in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26331	I would ask you that this kind of replica is no longer absolutely necessary for this kind of replica. We're pulling off the case, and I'm out, closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26332	I didn't give up...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26333	There you go, there you go, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26334	The type of response in the end, first, to colleagues Novaković. Here in this report we're talking about commission work. Apparently, there was an impression that there was, let's say, some vacuum of a few months, but it was a paper on data collection, so let's not say, in circles, sending letters, interventions, etc. Secondly,... when it comes to this final conclusion, this commission will not mind either being a working group composed of only parliamentarians, a working group of parliamentarians and representatives of the Association of Savings of Old Foreign Savings, a representative of the ministry. Simply, 108 of this message realize that it is necessary to get to a new law as soon as possible that will correct one thing that is a brake. Here, you heard a colleague of the Dolić just now why he won't verify himself, and as many of these are the statements you've got that we've got. So it can only be done by changing the law. And, in the end, another law that will respect the fact that old foreign savings is private property, that the European Convention on Human Rights and these judgments that have already been and, only when you take it, are sufficient framework for those who will work to amend that law, because this law obviously did not respect these facts. Here, I've got nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26335	Is it over now? Thank you. Finalising debate on item 23. Moving to point 24. Ad. 24. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the conclusions under No. 1st and No. 5, which we all know by heart of Denis Bećirović, proposed for the 2008 report on the BiH Council of Ministers' work The compliance report you received, no consent was reached, unfortunately. The conclusions will be decided in the second round of voting. Any debates and questions at this point? Here you go, Mr. Bećirović, so here's the man.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26337	I'll be real quick. I want to invite all my colleagues to support both of these conclusions, but I think they're quite logical. The first conclusion is about the fact that the BiH Council of Ministers did not realise with 50% the plan adopted by the Council of Ministers. And we, just as Parliament, as a sign of responsibility to the state and citizens, ask that a report from the Council of Ministers, why it was in the last year, but not only last year, but year after year, we have a situation that the Council of Ministers cannot even throw 50% of the plan it sets out. And the second conclusion that I've already talked about today, so I won't anymore, is this conclusion relating to the right, our business right as an MP to find out where in the time of the recession and the economic crisis budget is spent, or the budget money of the taxpayers of this country. Last time we spoke, the chairman of the Council of Ministers bought an Audi of over 200,000, a security minister of over 100,000, etc. However, in order not to speak incorrect figures, we as Parliament have this right and today I expect from colleagues that when we cannot get information from the Council of Ministers for four months to form an investigative committee of Parliament and to come to the truths, truths both towards this Parliament and towards the people of this country. Thank you. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26338	I'm very sorry I didn't convince you, Denise, that we've all read these conclusions and we know what this is all about, but here's the problem again. Okay. Let's go to point 25. I'm closing the debate. If you let me work, we'll be done. If you let me work, we'll finish the session. So I'm closing the debate on the 24th point and I'm going to point 25. Ad. 25. A statement on MP Slavko Jovičić's initiative to discuss "A report by the State Agency for Investigation and Protection on the delivery of a report on the crime committed against several persons from Republika Srpska" At the 47th session, MP Slavko Jovičić submitted the initiative. The initiative went to the Defence and Security Commission. The opinion of this committee has been given to us by 8. And you saw that this committee didn't support the initiative. I'm opening a debate. Are there any reports of a hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on the point. I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26341	Right now, right now, right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26342	Namely, as my colleague Selim said, the next topic is the same, so here I am also taking the opportunity to talk about the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26343	If I understand correctly, it also means paragraphs 25 and 26, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26344	Whatever.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26345	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26346	It's, I mean, the same problem. Namely, I would say something about this Commission's decision on defence and security. It makes me think that... The Commission has defined more, as I would say, 110 timed on the problem than on the need to discuss the problem. In order not to prolong and take up your time, I would advocate... that this House be positively expressed on this initiative and that given what was in public regarding the work of SIPA and the Prosecutor's Office in the case of a lawsuit, that is, a report by SIPA regarding certain reasonable suspicions of crime. I think it would be good for this home to finally discuss and not show that there is no epilogue of this thing that has produced a lot of attention in the public of BiH. So, I'm going to be willing to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26347	Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26348	Mr. Chairman, I really had to take the floor, very briefly. I want to say, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission and vice-chair of the Defence and Security Commission, that these initiatives are things that Parliament does not have to deal with as defined. The principle of the division of legislative, executive and judicial authorities leads me to this conclusion, as you are careful, here you are required to discuss the report of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection on the delivery of the report on the offence committed. This is the procedure of the appropriate police agency, and if they did well, they did well; if they did what they did wrong, they knew the procedure and the body carrying out the legislative authority should not be concerned with these specific matters, so in action, in the conduct of the body in the particular case, it is, I think, that it is a interference in the executive power and I think we may have a problem in mixing executive, legislative and judicial power, and then there is a complete chaos. And in particular, when it comes to this point 26, which says it is being discussed at Parliament's Report of the Prosecutor's Office, and now, be careful, about how to receive and proceed with the delivery of the State Agency's Report. So if we control the D.A.'s office or they report to us what they're doing specifically on a specific case, then the Court will come later, and then it's a complete mess. I just want to warn you, I've been doing this on the Constitutional Commission, and I'm saying that right now this is an initiative that Parliament shouldn't adopt and that this is an illicit job for Parliament. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26349	We are in a way – just a little patience, Mr. Križanović, so I have two lines already reported – we have in some way entered into a debate on both point 25 and point 26. So, here I am not even going to stop it, now we're going in a line of registered replicas, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26350	First, let me say that I don't think that we have anything or that we have no right to discuss, especially when it comes to point 25. 111 In fact, there was already this report in the public on internal rules and it was even said that there was no injury. I thought that my colleagues from the SNSD would withdraw the initiative today, which would be logical, especially under point 25, I'm not talking about the initiative under point 26, but, since they're not doing it, I don't think it's a problem that we, who have already received the press report and we get MPs as well, and within this point we're having a debate on this report. 'Cause watch out, the report was public, and we're the only ones who didn't get it. Of course, we won't even get it if this isn't on the agenda, but if it does, then we'll get it too. So, I don't think this is a problem, and that's why I'm going to support this initiative. When it comes to point 26, since it seems to me that we have united both 25 and 26 silently, silently united, look, here I am not sure about the term'still doing', because I understood this, and my colleague Kuzmanović explained this, I realized that the prosecution should say what they will do with this report, not that we follow the prosecution's behaviour further according to that report. That's not how I understood it. If my colleague Kuzmanović thought so, then part of Mr Džaferović was right, but if he meant the way I thought he did, which is that he said the prosecution got the report, we got the report according to someone, I don't know, with the law, with this, with what, or was not in accordance with the law, we'll continue to deal with it according to the law. I don't see that that's the problem with the D.A.'s office writing us that they're going to act in accordance with the law. Hala.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26351	Željko Kuzmanović, replica. So we're talking about points 25 and 26.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26352	Thank you, Your Honor. Yeah, since it's called the 26th point that's mine, it's my duty to replicate. With regard to my initiative to discuss the House session, I will again quote: "The BiH Prosecutor's Report on the way in which I receive and continue to act on the delivery of the State Investigation and Protection Agency's report on the crime committed against several persons from the RS," I just want to clarify that this initiative is absolutely not affected by the work of the Prosecutor's Office and its independence, nor was it, after all, and the intention of this initiative, but this legitimate request is based on Article 10. The BiH Prosecutor's Law establishing the right of this parliament to be informed of the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the application of BiH law. So this is about continuing to act, or whether a legal procedure is respected, and absolutely not to be asked here for any involvement in the crime committed, nor do I intend here to defend the character and work of the gentleman who has been charged here, or reported as the perpetrator of the crime. Thank you. 112
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26353	Yeah, well, with being honest, we all know what this is all about. Mr. Križanović, replica. Let's pretend a little, but here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26354	In fact, I wanted to replicate my colleague Džaferović. I do not agree, nor do I agree, that this parliament cannot and should not be discussed on this initiative, primarily because the Defence and Security Commission has twice debated the issue on the legitimate request of the SNSD and has not finished the job but has waited for the SIPA to end the procedure itself. And secondly, I see no reason why Parliament cannot ask for specific information from the prosecution. What's the problem? What counterpart Kuzmanović says: it is no interference in the prosecution's jurisdiction. Why is it a problem to get information about the state and the problem that is arousing to the public in BiH, to get an epilogue here in this, nothing is a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26355	Replica, Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26356	I answered the word, right to tell you, the stenogram works, because sometimes someone's going to read our stenograms and I want it written down. So that was my goal, I know very well, and I thought it through before I said what I said, so that's one thing. The second thing is that the prosecution should, in accordance with the relevant legislation, deliver reports, but people, this refers to a specific case and the behaviour of police agencies and in particular the Prosecutor's Office on a specific case, and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26357	Nothing, we'll open up a practice so every specific case likes it. Slavko Jovičić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26358	Dear Mr. Chairman, my intrinsicity when I started this initiative wasn't how it stands here in the agenda point that I was looking for the State Investigation and Protection Agency report on the delivery of the report on the crime committed. I was clear then, and I said that I was interested in whether parallel structures in SIPA work, because for days the public was bombarded with information how, well here in the agenda, of course, how it... _________(?) 113 [[microphone is not enabled]] Okay, I agree with this point, here's the deal, okay. So, the public was bombed by the information that the civil servant, the assistant director without his consent, and even worse without his knowledge, filed a criminal report and I said then, and now I'm going to repeat not getting into the metrics of things, is there someone guilty, this one or not, but I repeat, how it was really possible that the assistant director would do all this, prepare that material, not one sheet of paper, but a lot of documentation, and then pass it on to the prosecution, without knowing either the director of the Agency or his deputy, at least that's what they said in public. When it gained dimensions of slightly broader proportions, of course our Defence and Security Commission was involved, and then the director was self-initiative, and I don't care at all what he was doing, he started a disciplinary procedure. As he formed the Commission, what are the circumstances, and what, and then the sequence of events, other information appeared. I was then paraphrasing things in the submission of the Initiative and I said: I want institutions that are not only wearing the prefix of Bosnia and Herzegovina but which we founded or someone else (not important, come on, I didn't go into the procedure) to function in a legal way, so I said then I didn't want to make the markets at Stupa and that the documentation was coming in, but since this is now all, unfortunately, not even through the prosecution's protocol went through that initiative, this extensive documentation, and then the prosecutor also announced that he didn't know anything. So, about everything when this all comes together, no one knew anything, and everybody knew. And worse than that, I guess we just didn't know. Either the competent minister of security, or the director of this, I repeat, our very important SIPA institutions, and what was even more difficult about this was that it had been written for days by the media and created a full polarisation of those who said the situation should be settled there, so our commission also concluded that the Council of Ministers had to resolve it, and the director, with such a request, addressed the Council of Ministers because he was powerless. So today, when we add all of this together and see, I'm going to stay at the same request again. I'm interested in whether this service works legally. Is that what all those procedures are required, and there are not naive people who are doing it, but exactly people who need to respect the laws, and in whose hands is the fate of other people who have put up with it all, and to be even more concrete, not knowing at all about the subject, here I am now telling you, I don't even know how many faces are there and who else is on that team, I just know that the first accused of it is Mr. Milorad Dodik.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26360	He's not charged.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26361	I'm sorry, the report was filed, but here's the defendant.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26362	Slavko, I think you've given enough explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26363	So, let me cut it short.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26364	The House of Representatives will declare the Initiative and we'll see. 114
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26365	So, I'm not...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26366	Just a little attention for the man to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26367	to this day he received a report and information on whether this was a legal path, whether it was a respected procedure, (why did I stand up for submitting the incijativa), because I don't have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26368	So here's the House of Representatives will be determined according to the Initiative to provide what you're talking about, provided you support it, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26369	Correctly, as far as you're concerned, and I hope to get here
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26370	Information?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26371	No, the report that I'm going to get in response to the Initiative, the real one, which doesn't have to satisfy me, but to see what was done there.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26372	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26373	Now, that's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26374	Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26375	I'm sorry he's been charged, but we've already had the defendant in the media.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26376	Slavko, it's okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26377	Just for a little while.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26378	Just please be patient a little longer, we're almost there. Mr. Kuzmanović, please. 115
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26379	I'll be real quick.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26380	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26381	Let me explain this to my colleague Džaferović. It is indeed an incorrect qualification that this wants to affect the work of the Prosecutor's Office and I really have no intention and I want a clear legal procedure to be established and it was only intention and nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26382	Okay, thank you. I'm closing the debate on the 25th and 26th points. Please, let me. Moving to point 27. Ad. 27. Declaration on MPs' initiative Adem Huskić and Šemsudin Mehmedović to amend Decision on the restriction of imports of passenger cars, freight vehicles and car tyres They filed on April 1st. The Komsija for Foreign Trade and Customs was responsible. We received our opinion on April 17th. The Commission supported the initiative. The Commission also proposed one conclusion that you have in the Commission's opinion. I'm opening a debate on the motion for this decision. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to point 28. Ad. 28. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to bring the text of the Law on the provision of air navigation services into line.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26389	I give up my proposal to conclude in favour of the proposal proposed by Mr. Živković because I think he is more complete.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26390	Okay. So, like this: if we accept this conclusion, we practically stop all further actions, statements, etc. And there's a possibility, to put it this way, of new amendments, of alignments, etc., of what we talked about in the debate. Do you have a proposal for this conclusion by Mr. Živković? Please prepare to vote. Vote now! We are voting on Mr Živković's proposal for a conclusion, which implies delaying the debate and a statement on the bill's proposal to create an opportunity to submit new amendments. 24 votes "yes" (12 Federation, 12 RS). I agree that we adopted Mr. Živković's proposal for a conclusion. We're going to point 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 31 "for" (20 Federation, 11 RS). I agree that we adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in a second reading. 121 Let's go to point 8. Proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts (first reading). So we're voting on the law in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 29 "for" (19 Federation, 10 RS). I agree that we adopted the proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts in the first reading. We're going to point 9. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 32 "for" (20 Federation, 12 RS). I agree that we adopted in the first reading of the proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for the security of BiH. Let's go to point 10. Proposal for a law on the parliamentary military commissioner of BiH – Proposers: MPs Šefik Džaferović and Adem Huskić (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 28 votes "yes" (17 Federation, 11 RS). I agree that the proposal for a law on the parliamentary military commissioner of BiH, Proposer Džaferović and Huskić, was adopted in the first reading. We're going to point 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Home of the People (first reading). We're voting on the bill in the first reading, even though we have a negative opinion here, Branka.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26391	Positive, positive, this is different.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26392	Okay, well, second opinion positive. So we're voting on the law. Please, we are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 14 "for", there is no general majority. 122 I'm saying... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Sure, sure. Please prepare again. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26395	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26396	Mr. Lozančić is asking for a re-election. Of course. Prepare to vote. Vote now! No problem, I'll repeat no matter how many times it takes, go ahead. He doesn't have a general majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26397	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26398	Mr. Raguž, I'd be happy to repeat, there's no problem. Please prepare to vote. No problem at all. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 15, 15, unfortunately the law doesn't have a general majority. I find that no draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted, the promoter of the House of Peoples. 123 Let's go to point 12. Proposal for a law on the provision of proportionate ethnic representation in the authorities of the administration and local self-government in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 19 "for", no entity. There's no consent. Please prepare to vote in the second round. Vote now! He didn't make it. I therefore conclude that the proposal for a law on the provision of proportionate ethnic representation in the authorities of the administration and local self-government in Bosnia and Herzegovina did not pass in the first reading. Let's go to point 13. Proposal for an Excise Act (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 22 "for" (15 Federation, seven RS). I agree that we passed the Excise Law proposal in the first reading. Of course, there remains a request from the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority for the opinion of this law. Let's go to point 14. Declaration by the House on the Request of the Commission for Finance and the budget for the extension of the deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement. It's a 21-day extension. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 28 votes "yes" (16 Federation, 12 RS). I agree that we have approved a 21-day extension for the Public Procurement Act. Moving to point 15. Declaration on the proposal for a revised Bosnia and Herzegovina strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement and the conclusions arising from the debate, which are agreed in the committee responsible. So first we vote on a proposal for a revised strategy. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Revised strategy, vote now if you will. 22 "for" (19 Federation, three RS). Agreeing in three days. 124
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26399	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26400	We can, I'm sorry, but does make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26401	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26402	Mr. Okolić, here's what we said we'd get along in three days. We have not adopted the proposal for a revised strategy. There are conclusions I don't think should be made now. But if Mr. Živković insists, I don't mind, but there's no point. I suggest we agree on everything for three days, and on these conclusions. We will also agree on this conclusion in the package and the result will be Ja or Bu. Please, we're moving to point 16. Bosnia and Herzegovina Central Bank's 2008 annual report. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Slavko, will you vote for governor?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26403	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26404	28 "for" (19 The Federation, nine RS), has a general and entity majority. I agree that we adopted the Annual Report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2008. We're also 17. Bosnia and Herzegovina Central Bank's 2008 financial report. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 28 votes "for" (19 Federation, nine RS). I also agree that we adopted the Central Bank's financial report for 2008. We're going to point 18. Report on the activities of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions Audit Office for 2008. Voting with the report and the content of the conclusion. So we are voting on the report and the conclusion contained in the Commission's opinion. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 125 28 votes "yes" (17 Federation, 11 RS). I agree that the report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions Audit Office has a general and entity majority, and thus was adopted together with the conclusion contained in the Opinion. We're going to point 19. A 2008 report on the spending of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency. We vote on the report with the Commission's opinion. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 20 votes "yes" (15 Federation, five RS). I agree that we adopted the 2008 report on the spending of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. Point 20. Report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH for the period from 1. 1. 2008 to 16. 2. In 2009, with a proposal for a conclusion. So we are voting on the State Commission Report, with the opinion of the competent commission and the conclusions proposed in the opinion. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 26 votes "yes" (Federation 14, 12 RS). I agree that we adopted the report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH, with the opinion of the committee responsible and the conclusions proposed in the Opinion. We also have a proposal for the conclusion of Šemsudin Mehmedović on behalf of the SDA Club. So it's a two-point conclusion, so I'm interpreting it. I hope you have this conclusion. Please prepare to make a statement on this conclusion. Vote now! 17 votes "yes" (13 Federation, four RS). There's no consent. Please prepare to vote, we vote in the second round. Vote now! 17 votes "yes" (14 Federation, three RS), without 10 votes "against". I agree that the proposal for the conclusion of Šemsudin Mehmedović was adopted. We're going to point 21. A report on the work and the Financial Report of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Post Traffic Agency for 2008. Voting on the reports. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 22 "for" (13 Federation, nine RS). 126 I agree that we have both a general and an entity majority, and that the report on the work and the Financial Report of the BiH Post Traffic Agency for 2008 was adopted. We have here a proposal for Mr. Branko Dokić's conclusion. I hope you have a proposal for a conclusion ahead of you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'll be happy to read and see how I deal with Cyrillic. 'It is the responsibility of the Postal Traffic Agency to access the licensing of postal operators in BiH and to assign free licences to public postal operators as soon as possible.' Is it okay? Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 24 votes "yes" (13 Federation, 11 RS). So it has both a general and an entity majority. The conclusion has passed. Let's go to point 22. A report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency Management Board for 2008. We're voting on the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 28 votes "yes" (16 Federation, 12 RS). I agree that we adopted the report on the work of the Management Board of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency for 2008. We're going to point 23. A report by the Interim Joint Commission on determining the old foreign savings of BiH citizens placed on the accounts of domestic banks and branches in BiH. So let's do this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26406	Jerko got something.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26407	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26408	I would suggest we make a separate statement about the report and the supplement. I think that would be fine. Correction to the report. 127
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26409	Yes, we have the report, we have the correction. To make a statement about the report, including the correction.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26410	Separately, about one, and about the other.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-29-0.u26411	Why separately? It's an integral part. I think it's an integral part. I hope you have the consent to that correction. I don't mind, but I understand it's an intervention on the report that becomes an integral part of the report. [[Common discussion]] So, here's the deal. We first have this conclusion by Momčilo Novaković, because if this conclusion is adopted he excludes the conclusion of Jerka Ivanković and the conclusion of 3rd in the Commission Report. Namely, if you look closely, you have three similar conclusions: one on the Commission Report, one Novaković and one on Lijanović Ivanković. So I suggest and here's how the service sort of prepared us to go first to Novaković. Here, it's Novakovic's amendment. Please prepare and plead on the proposal for a conclusion of Novakovic. Stand by. Vote now! 10 votes "yes", 14 votes "against". In conclusion, the proposal for a conclusion has not even received a general majority, therefore, has not been adopted. We move on to a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of Jerka Ivanković. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 10 votes "yes", 16 votes "against". The proposal for a conclusion by Jerka Ivanković has not received the general majority, therefore, has not been adopted. E, we are now moving to a statement on the Report and the conclusions proposed in the Report, with the correction provided by the Commission, including the conclusion 3. Please, including conclusion 3. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 24 votes "yes" (14 Federation, 10 RS). I agree that we adopted the Conclusion Report, including the correction submitted by the Commission and including the conclusion of 3. 128 Let's go to point 24. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the conclusions under No. 1st and 5th. Denis Bećirović, proposed to discuss the 2008 report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. We vote in the second round of conclusions 1 and 5. gospodin Bećirović has repeatedly reminded me, I hope you know what this is about. Please prepare to vote. We vote first on this conclusion. Denis Bećirović. Vote now. Of course, the listing should be prepared, it will be requested. 17 votes "for" (12 Federation, five RS), 11 votes "against". Conclusion one has been adopted. We're going to make a statement on this conclusion 5. Denis Bećirović. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 19 votes "yes" (14 Federation, five RS). I also find that the conclusion is 5. Denis Bećirović adopted. Let's go to point 25. A statement on Parliamentarian Slavko Jovičić's initiative to discuss "A report by the State Agency for Investigation and Protection on the delivery of a report on the criminal offence committed against several persons from the RS". We're voting on Mr. Jovičić's initiative. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 19 votes "yes" (nine Federation, RS 10). There's no consent. Round two. Please prepare to vote in the second round. Vote now! We do not have 19 votes "against" from the Federation, therefore, the initiative is accepted. Let's move on, point 26. A statement on Parliamentarian Željko Kuzmanović's initiative to discuss "A report by the Prosecutor's Office on how to receive and continue to act on the delivery of the State Investigation and Protection Agency's report on the crimes committed against multiple persons from the RS". Please prepare to vote on Željko Kuzmanović's initiative. Vote now! 18 votes "yes" (eight Federation, RS 10). There's no consent. Round two. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 18 votes "yes" (eight Federation, 10 RS), there are no 19 votes "against" from the Federation. 129 Let's move on, point 27. A statement on MPs Adem Huskić and Šemsudin Mehmedović's initiative to amend the Decision on the restriction of imports of passenger cars, freight vehicles and car tyres. Please prepare for a statement on the Initiative. Vote now! 24 "for" (15 Federation, nine RS). I find that the Commission's Opinion initiative has been adopted. Let's go to point 28. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to bring the text of the Law on the provision of air navigation services into line. This is about a clean match. There is proposed Husein Nanić, Branko Dokić and Slavko Matić. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 25 votes "yes" (16 Federation, RS 9). I agree that we have appointed the Commission for Harmonisation in Branko Dokić, Husein Nanić and Slavko Matić. And we're left with 29. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to bring the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions into line. For this commission, we proposed to Remzija Kadrić, Milica Marković and Martin Raguž. If it is established that compliance assumptions have been met, it shall be agreed. If they're not, let them report to the College, and we'll get home. Can we do this? Thank you. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 25 votes "yes" (15 Federation, 10 RS). I agree that we have adopted, or appointed, the Commission for... the alignment of this law and the proposal for a compromise solution. A moment of attention, so first of all I congratulate May 1st, coming holidays. I want you to have a nice rest. Next session (what's this phone ring?, this unblocks), so next session 13. Here's the governor calling. Slavko, what is this? So the next session is 13, and then the 12th plenary session at 10.00. Have a nice holiday. The seat is closed at 1900 hours.
