ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25531	I am opening the 51st session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Of course, I failed to welcome the chairman of the Council of Ministers and all ministers. So, I say hello to them this time. Please take your seats. In the O.R., according to my records, there are 31, 33 MPs present. Please, who didn't insert the presence card to put it in. Here, I get the information that it's 36 now, which means we have a quorum. They are justly absent: Mr. Jovan Todorović, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, and Jerko Ivanković announced a delay. Within the framework, just a little attention, so within the previous questions, we should set out a proposal for a resolution on the protection of the family, submitted by MP Adem Huskić on 31 March this year. In accordance with Rule 148(2) of the Rules of Procedure, we should decide here whether the proposed resolution will be previously discussed in the relevant committee or otherwise be included in the agenda of this session. So, if we don't opt for a hearing through the competent commission, then we'd be obliged to put it on the agenda. I hope we understand each other, and in that sense we should vote. We had this practice all the time, so we put all the motions for resolutions in the commission phase. So now we're voting on whether we're going to put this resolution in a commission phase. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 36 votes "yes" (25 from the Federation, 11 from RS), I conclude that the House of Representatives with sufficient general and entity majority decided to put the motion for a resolution in the commission phase. The next thing I would like to inform you on previous issues is the initiative of Ambassador Husein Nanić. Let me remind you, he intervened at the last session which his initiative was not mentioned in unrealised tasks. However, I must establish that this initiative is practically realised as far as the House is concerned, as it was discussed at the 30th session on June 18th, but the conclusion of the House, which we adopted at that session, on this initiative, was not realised. It is the conclusion, which reads: "It is the Council of Ministers' duty to draw up as soon as possible and no later than 45 days, and to provide the Parliamentary Assembly with the Information on the readiness of BiH institutions to make commitments regarding the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement." 2 I have held a conversation with the chairman of the Council of Ministers on this subject and we have reached agreement that this information will be obtained as soon as possible and that way we, so to speak, and realised what Mr. Nanić has launched as an initiative. Let me just say that we intended to make a statement at this session, as we concluded: a statement on the proposals for the conclusions proposed in the debate on the proposal for a revised strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement. However, the Commission for Human Rights failed to complete the work yesterday, so we will put it on the agenda of the next session, because our conclusion has practically specified that before the House of Representatives' statement, the Commission will agree and submit a final proposal for conclusions. So, that hasn't been realized yet, we expect until the next session that we will have it. I'll do it this time, don't mind me, skip the usual practice of previous issues and information on every initiative and conclusion. I will do so at the next session so that, as soon as possible, we can move to the agenda that is extremely important. So, you've got a draft agenda. We have kind of deviated from the previous agreement... where we have in some way committed ourselves to only these points 2 and 3 being the subject of today's debate, so the report on the work of the Council of Ministers and the report on the fulfilment of the visa liberalisation requirements. In the meantime, however, we received materials that fulfilled our business assumptions and we included them in today's session of the agenda, proposed and included them in today's session of the agenda, estimating that they are not so natural that they cannot be finished today. Of course, points 2 and 3 are a priority and we will pay no attention to this point 2 and 3 without any restriction. But here, you've seen these additions to the invitation you received and I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda for this session today. Here you go. There are no reports. I'm establishing a agenda. Allow me, I ask you to report in time. Here you go. Here you go. I've got Milica Marković now, and I've got Husein Nanić, now he's gone. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25532	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, regardless of the Rules of Procedure, I would still have a point of view on the agenda under number 5. It is about the Proposal for a Law amending the Law of Payments under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure. So it's a relatively small change, let me say, of this law, but which can have far greater consequences than can be seen from the text itself. So, given the fact that the bill's proposal most of us, to say, MPs got this morning, I think it's a very significant amendment to this law where, given the state of the country, I don't think we're exhausting all the possibility of a salary correction in the way it's proposed, so I would suggest, for these reasons, that we have, regardless of what I say, a Rules of Procedure, that we have understanding and that we take this off the agenda and that, in accordance with the previous conclusion of this home, the issue of pay and compensation 3 is seriously considered. And such an initiative, at the conclusion of this house, has gone towards our Administrative Commission. Second, under point 12. Giving consent to ratifying the agreement. We, as you can see, still do not have the opinion of the committee responsible, or the Commission for Foreign Affairs, and I see no reason to put things on the agenda this quickly. I don't think there's any reason to rush, and yet to respect our procedure, to have time, to consider the committee's opinion and then to decide in accordance with our usual procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25533	Thank you. So you yourself said at the beginning of your discussion that the Rules of Procedure had placed this item on the agenda at today's session. Of course, when we discuss it, there's no problem in calling, if you think it should, the promoters, etc., but she's a businessman here. When it comes to point 12, I have information and I had information, which is why I did not take it off, or say that this is being downloaded, that the Commission has done its part of the job. And I have to say that we have one practice that is a product of delay and controversy in ratification, or throughout the ratification process, that we have interventions of interested parties which these agreements, contracts directly concern and solve life problems. So these were the reasons and we have some practice that was so that we went out together. And here, and in this case, we have interventions of several local communities that have been waiting years for this procedural part to be completed so that we can get the funds and realize some of your projects. I totally agree that we have a different approach to make, but I also think that we should go out and meet those who tang these contracts, etc. I have a registered Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25534	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, you see, it is not usual to schedule a session where you form a agenda of three points, and then add nine points. To talk about the fact that these points have met the business conditions to be on the agenda, and there are at least 15 more points of the agenda that have met the business conditions and are not on this agenda today, I don't think it's a strong enough argument why these points are here. What is a particular problem is that a session of the Expansive College is held the day before Parliament's session and what fellow MPs who do not attend the meetings of the Extended College, and no one but the president of the clubs, found these points of the agenda on the table this morning, or here, a colleague says, in the office, which, of course, implies that they did not bring these materials to these points of the agenda, however we were told that it was only procedures. Be careful, in order to make a statement at all about the procedure, it is necessary to read the law and see if that law has been fulfilled or has not met the conditions to be considered in an emergency procedure. I cannot understand that if the College planned to supplement the agenda that it was not the day before the Enlarged College informed all MPs that it was possible to put on the agenda the next points, and that people would, in each case, bring materials, if they were to be found on the agenda. I don't think that's any 4 problem, that it's a technical matter and that it should be practiced. In this way I think that we are also reducing the importance of the very points of the agenda, and I must say that these are very important issues. It is clear to me that the final argument is that it is mandatory points of the agenda and that they cannot be downloaded today. But I can't help but say what I said, because in future we try to inform at least in time Members that they will have an updated agenda or that they will have the possibility of an updated agenda, so that people can prepare adequately for the session, especially given that requests, such as, I don't know, require for Article 126. The Excise Act is put in place so quickly that it has been almost a month since its adoption at the Council of Ministers and has not come to Parliament. What is this urgency that allows him to stand in drawers for another 30 days, and then, after that, he must, here, urgently push himself into Parliament here? But okay, I'll do that when it comes to that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25535	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Here, and I can't say, or give you some answers, of course, by accepting the criticism that stands. First of all, all the materials the service delivers and I, when I sign the accompanying acts, the act to which it is delivered – I can see exactly that it indicates the possibility of considering at the next session, we can verify that. Furthermore, I think this House of Representatives should understand that the College, and give it confidence, that the College has a responsibility to, in some ways, include and set up some schedules per session. We tried to balance the next session and this session, so we already have a session on 29th and we already have 20 and some agenda points for it. So it's about trust in the College. When it comes to meetings of an extended college, I must say, "The college is ready every third day to hold an extended college." But, gentlemen, MPs, or club presidents, you're not ready. The deal was that the day before the session, an extended college was held for practical reasons, that people do not come twice. So... if there's a mood, every seven days I'll organize an extended college. So, yes, I'd love to. I think there's an argument for this, all these extra points. Should we lose another 15 days to elect an Ombudsman, to choose a committee, etc., etc.? But here, in any case, Mr. Novaković, I will indeed accept with due respect all your remarks as well-intentioned and try to fix things. I've got two people on the line now. I don't know, weRemzija Kadrić the Branko, but here Dokić go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25536	Thank you. Short. Indeed, it must be replicated here. It is indeed a bit surprising that SDP Club Presidents will remove the item 5 from the agenda, which says: The request of MPs Sadik Bahtić, Lazar Prodanović and Velimir Jukić to consider the draft law on the completion of the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions under urgent procedure. So if they're proposing to take down this point five, they're essentially proposing that we postpone the issue of salary cuts in institutions. It is truly surprising of the SDP to propose to cut wages in institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25537	Branko Dokić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25538	Mr. Chairman, thank you for your confidence, I didn't ask for a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25539	I'm sorry, but here's what Mr. Jozo Križanović was looking for. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25540	Well, it's not my custom to replicate, but really, my colleague Kadrić didn't seem to understand what I was saying. I am in favour of removing the point of the amendment of the Law on Payments for the reason that the procedure is required under Article 127, and we believe that this is a very rash move, because this law limits the possibility, the possibility of a restriction of pay. And that's why, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25541	Please discuss this when we get to point 5. You'll all be able to say your opinion. What are you looking for, a discussion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25542	The Finance and Budget Commission has a business right to propose, and at this point we thought this could go away. And the Commission is ready for all other initiatives from the Council of Ministers and from you in the future, and we will always support you, and I do not understand why you are against wage cuts. You're always against, as much as it is, this is against. And the other thing you're suggesting, it's probably not going to work, it's an important effect, so the stamp, let it pass. And now you can suggest a hundred million, if it doesn't go away, then there's nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25543	Mr. Bahtić, we're discussing the agenda. I let Mr. Kadrić, you insisted on a replica, we discuss the agenda. What will you say when we get to point 5? Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25544	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25545	Business intervention has Lozančić, come on. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25546	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I must say that I understand the need to discuss and when certain matters should not be discussed, but we here have a draft agenda and we have mandatory agenda points in the Rules of Procedure. We can't take them off today's session, with all the debates of five hours. When they come to the agenda, it means when the time comes for debate, then we can discuss whether an emergency procedure is justified, whether it should be shortened, whether it should be regular, but it is to discuss the agenda point. I do ask all my colleagues to behave in accordance with the current Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25547	I ask that you do not abuse, so to speak, my understanding to allow people to speak. Here you go, Mr. Denise.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25548	Mr. Chairman, I'm really sorry to have to get up and say this, but still, given what my colleague Bahtić said, I have to make it very clear again. First, and when the parliamentary salaries were increased, the SDP was very clear and loud against it. So, number one. Under number two, when an initiative is to be referred to reducing parliamentary salaries, that there is no dilemma, the SDP is for such an initiative. And under number three, the proposal presented by the Commission and the position of the SDP are different only because the SDP thinks that there is a need to further reduce parliamentary receipts than what the Commission proposes, purely for stenograms and the fact that the SDP Club's position is known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25549	Here, I think we should cancel our salaries completely. But here, let me get back to the agenda, let me get to the bottom of it, so here's the public doing, while we're at it, I'm coming up with the agenda of the 51st session and I'm asking you for some attention. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 50th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2008; 3. Action plan for meeting the European Commission's recommendation on the Roadmap for visa liberalisation for BiH citizens; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 7 5. The request of MPs Sadik Bahtić, Lazar Prodanović and Velimir Jukić to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Excises of BiH following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure; 7. Request of the SNSD Member's Club to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. In this case, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, together with the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council. Confirmation of the Council of Ministers' decision to discharge the Deputy Minister of The appointment of three MPs of the House of Representatives to the Ad hoc Joint Commission for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Ombudsman for human rights instead of Ivo Bradvica; 11. The appointment of three MPs of the House of Representatives to the Ad hoc Joint Commission on the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of a) the Independent Committee and (b) the Committee on Appeals of Citizens as independent bodies of the BiH police structure; 12. Giving consent to ratification (a) Agreement on Loans between BiH and the Kingdom of Spain – Funding of Waste Water in the Municipality of Široki Brijeg, (b) Agreement on Loans between BiH and the Kingdom of Spain – Financing of Waste Water in the Municipality of Ljubuski, (c) Agreement on Loans between BiH and the Kingdom of Spain – Financing of the Waste Water System in the Municipality of Fojnica, (d) Agreement on Loan between the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Federation of BiH, Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Export and Import Bank of Korea (Government of the EDCF Agency) – Project Modernisation of Hospitals in BiH, e) Protocol against Illegal Production and Trade in Firearms, its Parts, Components and Ammunitions, complementing the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. We're going to realize the agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 50th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25552	On page 6. The 50th session also said that Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Špirić, and Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Mr. Safet Halilović, were immediately answering my two parliamentary eight questions at the last session. It follows, on page 6, that Denis Bećirović expressed satisfaction with the chairman's response that the Council of Ministers began working on a strategy to fight corruption. Since the Rules of Procedure reflect the facts of the last session, I'm just asking that it be fully placed here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25553	It's a record, Denise!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25554	In this record.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25555	Me, you were talking about the Rules of Procedure, and here's this record.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25556	All right, I apologize, so this record concludes what's already been said. On the one hand, that I expressed my satisfaction that the Council of Ministers had finally started working on a strategy to fight corruption, and also to add, on the other hand, that I expressed my dissatisfaction that, four, five, six months ago, I insist that the Council of Ministers of BiH was obliged to deliver a strategy to the House of Representatives for consideration within three months of the adoption of this initiative here in Parliament, and we know that the Council of Ministers has been late for a year now with the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25557	Are there any more registered for this record? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on the 50th session. Moving to point 2. Ad. 2. BiH Council of Ministers' 2008 Work Report I'm convinced you all know, in a way, history. At the shortest, let me remind you that we received the report in February 2009, that we had put it in commission procedures, that we had intervention with the Council of Ministers, that we had talked with the Council of Ministers, that we had delivered the reports of the Commission and the Council of Ministers on the obvious, so to speak, that we intervened in terms of uniting some activities in order for this report to get the form of the Council of Ministers' and Commission reports, so to say, have done their part of the work and, not to delay and take time, practically, we have what we have today. So the procedure was carried out, the commissions did their job, we co-operated with the Council of Ministers, there were interventions, and we have today material to discuss. 9 So, we agreed... to enable the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and he expressed his wish that he, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, make several opening remarks and then we would start to debate. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25559	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished ministers, esteemed guests, representatives of information funds, allow me to welcome you at first and express my confidence that we will have a constructive debate today on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH in the past year. I think this will be a good opportunity to analyze all the good that has been done, as well as the weaknesses and challenges we have encountered in our work. During last year, the BiH Council of Ministers held 39 regular and six thematic sessions to discuss 1,132 agenda points, 1,166 of which at regular sessions and 26 sessions. At regular sessions, the Council of Ministers established and submitted 60 drafts of the law in the parliamentary procedure, the BiH Presidency also referred to the adoption of 39 proposals for international contracts, established 134 proposals on the basis of negotiations for the conclusion of international contracts, adopted seven strategic documents, adopted 200 decisions, 16 solutions, established 87 proposals for a decision on ratification of international contracts, adopted 17 regulations, confirmed eight and agreed to 11, discussed and adopted 161 information from different areas, as well as 138 reports, identified the answers to 192 parliamentary questions and 51 delegation questions. Given that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed in the previous year, as well as that negotiations on visa liberalisation were launched last year, the BiH Council of Ministers focused on meeting the conditions for further integration of BiH, and our work was too focused on the realisation of priorities in the area of the European Partnership, obligations under the Interim Agreement, as well as implementation of commitments from the Roadmap for visa liberalisation. For this reason, the Council of Ministers has started holding the thematic sessions dedicated to European integration, where, among other things, we have discussed the level of implementation of commitments from the European Partnership. The thematic meeting of the Council of Ministers held in Banja Luka proved particularly useful and was first invited and attended by entity prime ministers. That is how we strengthened institutional co-operation between the entity governments and the Council of Ministers of BiH when it comes to meeting the priorities of the European Partnership. In order to join the issue of European integration systematically and planically, the Council of Ministers adopted an Action Plan for the Implementation of Priority from the European Partnership, the Action Plan for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as well as an Action Plan for meeting the visa liberalisation requirements from the Roadmap. Those action plans set out the dynamics of realisation as well as the competent institutions to be business operators. With this in mind, I would like to take this opportunity to inform this esteemed body that the 2008 European Partnership Priority Action Plan envisaged the adoption of nine new institutions. Of the nine planned, six were established: the Committee on Appeals of Police Officers, the Unit for European Integration, the Coordination Body for the Implementation of the Strategy for the Prevention of Juvenile Crimes, the Union of Standardisation, 10 of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and the Data Protection Agency. The remaining three are in the realization phase, and that is: the Committee on Citizens' Appeals (that is the obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH), the Alliance for General Education (in the final phase is the establishment), the establishment of a New Approach Directive in the relevant institutions. The action plan for the implementation of the European Partnership priorities envisioned the adoption of 15 laws. Since the planned 15 laws, the Council of Ministers has laid down 14 amendments and additions to the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the Administration, amendments and additions to the Law on Police Officers, amendments and additions to the Law on State Agency for Investigation and Protection, amendments and additions to the Law on Border Control in order to bring these four laws in line with two new laws on police reform. The Council of Ministers also found: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest, Proposal for a Law on Anti-discrimination, Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement, Proposal for a Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, Proposal for a Law on genetically modified organisms, Proposal for a Law on Civil Aviation, Proposal for a Law establishing air navigation service providers, Proposal for a Law on Border Control and a Proposal for a Law on Movement, residence of Foreigners and Asylum. By way of entry into force of the Interim Agreement, the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH has successfully implemented the first obligations that consisted in abolishing the payment of 1% in the name of customs registration for imports of goods and products from EU Member States, as well as the area of customs duties on products and goods imported from EU Member States, and on the basis of customs rates and dynamics provided for by the Interim Agreement. Last year, the first session of the Interim Committee was successfully held to operationalise the implementation of the Interim Agreement, which will be in force until the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Given the need to further strengthen co-ordination in the process of European integration, the Council of Ministers adopted a Decision establishing a Unit for European Integration in all ministries and bodies of the Council of Ministers. During 2008, the Council of Ministers also adopted a Strategy for the implementation of a decentralised implementation system for the management of EC assistance programmes in BiH and appointed the Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH as the State Coordinator for the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, and formed an advisory body in the form of the Co-ordination Committee for IPA Projects. When it comes to public administration reform, it is important to note that in 2008, the Public Administration Reform Fund became operational. The Management Board of this Fund approved 11 projects worth over 8 million KM. The Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office is actively working on further implementation of the Public Administration Reform Strategy. With regard to legal projects passed by the Council of Ministers in the reporting period in parliamentary procedure, it is certainly important to single out: the Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms, the Framework Law on the Protection and Employment of People and Material Goods, the Rescue of People and Material Goods from Natural and Other Accidents, the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, the Civil Aviation Act, and the Law on the Establishment of Services Providers in Air Navigation. It is certainly necessary to mention the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, which for the first time systemically edited the area. The fiscal council law of BiH is also one of the laws adopted by the BiH Parliament in the report on the proposal of the Council of Ministers, including one of the objectives set before BiH by the Peace Implementation Council. The fiscal council has held a series of sessions so far and has proved to be an extremely operational and useful body that has enabled efficient fiscal coordination. The first real test of functioning of the Fiscal Council was the 2009 Budget Framework Agreement for all levels of government, and the adoption of the BiH, RS, the Federation of BiH and Brcko District within the borders established by the Fiscal Council confirms the awareness of all levels of government and their true commitment to lead a coordinated fiscal policy in BiH. Of course, this is a difficult process of harmonising, realising overall public spending in BiH, but also the awareness of all participants... that only taking real fiscal policies creates a basis for strengthening mutual trust, but also for the necessary level of mutual co-operation, and also for helping when endangering one level of government can lead to the collapse of the entire fiscal system in BiH. Speaking of the objectives of the Peace Implementation Council, it is important to note that the Council of Ministers of BiH established and in the follow-up procedure the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly and adopted two important strategic documents: the Justice and War Crimes Strategy. The adoption of the three documents met the goal of strengthening BiH's rule of law. As far as education is concerned, it should be noted that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has passed a Law on secondary vocational education and training in BiH on a proposal from the BiH Council of Ministers. In addition, a number of decisions have been taken to further implement the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH. First of all, it is important to stress that decisions have been taken to initiate the work on the establishment of the Centre for Information and Recognition of Documents in Higher Education, the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security, and the Agency for Pre-school, Primary and Secondary Education. These newly formed institutions have been provided with resources to work and appointed their leaderships. In 2008, the Ministry of Civil Affairs also led to the final stage of the obligation to establish a 'General Education Council', which is a commitment from the European Partnership. The drug and medical law was also passed on a proposal from the BiH Council of Ministers. As a reflection of the implementation of this law, a decision on the establishment of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices has been adopted and its management has been appointed. It is also important to mention from newly formed institutions the establishment of a State Regulatory Agency for radiation and nuclear energy. The procedure for appointing the head of the agency has not been completed yet, but, in order to meet the duties of the agency in good time, it has been appointed as acting director. The data protection law also adopted the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on a proposal from the BiH Council of Ministers. The enforcement of this law is also under way. The Director of the Agency has been appointed and the Internal Organisation and Systematization Regulation has been adopted, thus creating conditions for its full operation. The Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH has been established in line with the European Regulation. This progress marres BiH that at the moment of candidate status it has a fully harmonised system of identification documents with European legislation. 12 One of the activities of the Council of Ministers which certainly deserves attention is the adoption of a strategy to combat drug abuse. The Council of Ministers also financially supported the anti-drug campaign, but also adopted a number of necessary regulations in the area. In June 2008, the Council of Ministers adopted an Integrated Border Management Strategy, with the accompanying Action Plan. And the adoption of this strategy is one of BiH's set conditions on the path of European integration. In order to implement this strategy effectively, decisions on the appointment of the State Borders Commission and the Commission's designation for integrated border management were also taken. The 2008 Action Plan for preventing human trafficking in BiH has also been adopted. - 2012. This plan sets out exactly the operators of the activities for the individual obligations provided for by it as well as the deadlines for their implementation. In the area of the protection of human rights and the rights of national minorities, a number of decisions have been taken, first of all, to single out a Decision on the establishment of a Coordination Body for the implementation of the Strategy for the Prevention of Jurisdiction (2006). – 2010), as well as the Decision on the establishment of a Co-ordination Committee to monitor the implementation of the BiH Action Plan to address Roma problems in the area of employment, housing and health care. The positive attitude of BiH authorities towards resolving the Roma problem has been described as one of the most significant moves by the European Commission in the report's progress. BiH joined dekada Roma in September 2008. As one of the important documents adopted in 2008 by the Council of Ministers, it is certainly necessary to mention the protocol in the area and politics in the area of disability in BiH. As far as the energy sector is concerned, I would like to inform you that, together with the entity prime ministers, I signed an agreement on the principles of energy policy on 13 November 2008. This Agreement defines the principles of energy policy in the following areas: transport and distribution of oil and petroleum products, transport and distribution of gas, production, transmission and distribution of electricity, transport, transmission and distribution of clean energy and bio-diesel. Given that BiH's gas law is one of the conditions of the European Partnership, part of the signed gas agreement envisions, among other things, co-ordination of the development of the gas network and of the liquid gas terminal and that the Council of Ministers, the Government of the RS and the Government of the Federation will agree and bring 'the law on the gas of BiH' as part of the commitments made in the European Partnership. All areas treated with this agreement provide for the introduction of rules and standards for the basic area in accordance with EU rules. The BiH Council of Ministers confirmed the agreement and tasked the resolution ministries with joining the implementation of the agreement. This would be a brief summary of the Council of Ministers' work. A lot of more information and details are available to you in the Report that was delivered to you earlier. On this occasion, I would like to point out that I was informed that some MPs were not satisfied with the form of the Ministerial Council's work report last year. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to remind the esteemed MPs that the records show that earlier Council of Ministers' meetings only delivered their reports to Parliament on two occasions, that there is no... uniform form of reporting. For this very reason, I have commissioned the Secretary-General to draw up a briefing on the form of reporting as soon as possible to improve co-operation between the Council of Ministers and the Parliament of BiH. I call on you today to, therefore, by discussion and conclusion after the debate, advance the way in which the Council of Ministers is reported. I'm sorry, there is no possibility that we can change the situation from 2008 through the debate today, but with active conclusions we can improve the work of the Council of Ministers in the year ahead. Thank you very much. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25560	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here, we kind of had a retrospective report. I only have one suggestion and a request. So let me remind you, don't forget that we have a point three, so a plan of activity on visa liberalisation. So, let's now focus on the Council of Ministers' work report. I've got a lot of registered MPs. Let's take it in a row, Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25561	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25562	Can I have your patience, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25563	Today we have a very important point on the agenda and, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers said, it would be good to use it for a constructive debate and to withdraw some useful lessons to make future different and more efficient and efficient, which is usually a lasting trend. I do, indeed, know that there is no uniform model of drawing up a report on the work of the Council of Ministers, but there is a standard purpose of the report on the work of the Council of Ministers, and that is to see through that report what problems are in the work of the Council of Ministers as bodies, what is the situation in the areas of certain segments, in the fields of individual policies, what is done, what is not, what are the interference, what are the plans, what are achievements, and that is the purpose of the report. The model that was delivered to us and the way it was delivered to us, as only the Council of Ministers put it in the accompanying act, to consider the reports of certain ministries and a number of agencies and to bring it together and deliver it to Parliament – gives a lot of information on the work of the ministries, of which they have really done a lot of jobs, give some agencies extraordinaryly, not all of them, but not the possibility to analyse the work of the Council of Ministers as bodies. Very - because Mr Špirić has highlighted in his exhibition the team's work of the Council of Ministers – a scarce accompanying text on the work of the Council of Ministers, which does not even have the signature of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, lists certain projects, legal ones, which have been adopted. What has been achieved very modestly and at first glance, a man would say everything is fine, the Council of Ministers functions extremely, there are no problems, they are solved, the objectives outlined are achieved etc. But we all know that it's not good and that there's no one to benefit from it, there's no, there's no, there's no picture of what it isn't, that it's wrapped up in celephane, because that's the only thing we can do for all the damage in common. For these reasons, we have also asked the Commission for European Integration for additions, additions and specific suggestions for future draft reports. And it's a good thing the Council of Ministers reacted and yesterday provided a supplement for certain agencies and for the Council of Ministers a certain build-up of non-crisis remains without a critical review. But I don't think it's a good thing it was done yesterday at 4:00 p.m., so not full 20 hours before the beginning of the session. It is still two hundred materials of text to be read, etc. And I think we need to take care of certain procedural issues. 14 For these reasons, I think we will agree that we in this report have no answer to questions that are big questions, which are not meaningless questions. For example. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly has recently adopted 146 conclusions concerning the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers realised four partially and in the phase of realization seven,...the rest was not realized. So it can be said that the conclusions are not good, that they are not meaningful, that they are not, but that they must respond to these conclusions. That's one thing. It is mentioned in many places that we have an Action Plan for the European Partnership and we have it and it is remarkable that we have it, that we have an Action Plan for the Interim Agreement, and we have it, and we have it well done, and we are doing it well and it is said that we have an Action Plan to implement the obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Unfortunately, we have an Action Plan to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement we do not have, we have a text, we have a text called the Action Plan and in which most of this text are prescribed chapters of this Agreement in the section The Rocks is empty, in the section The current state is empty, etc. That's right with the Chapter Strengthening institutions, that's how with the chapter Personal Data Protection, that's how it is with the issue of preventing the control of illegal immigration, etc. For a series of chapters on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the text is simply copied, without operationalisation, without specific tasks, specific objectives, concrete measures, concrete deadlines, concrete enforcement. It is our obligation to draw up the Partnership Action Plan, which was until the tenth month of last year, we here in Parliament have concluded to do so, etc. I know it's very difficult to make an action plan, I mean, in a state where Bosnia is in the accession process, but that business has to be approached, because it's simply why some other things are late. So we don't have an action plan to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Furthermore, a number of issues relevant to the work of the Council of Ministers in the field of European integration, just to say, are listed in this report. For example, it is said that several IPA agreements were launched during the reporting period, and a certain part was realised. I would really ask the Council of Ministers to state to me what projects from cross-border co-operation for the seventh, eighth, so the financial agreements that we have signed with delay for both the seventh and the eighth years that have so far been implemented by specific cross-border co-operation programmes as stated here? Give me a hint, please. Next thing. We will, of course, have a theme on the realisation of the European Partnership and the resolution of the Agreement and of the Interim Stabilisation Agreement, so that we will make the conclusions more thorough and constructively and constructively possible. But believe me, there is no report in this report, you can't see it, but when the European Partnership is looked closely at 210 steps and the measures that the deadline last year was, 97, 99 was partially fulfilled, 38, is not 74. Well, that's your condition. So there has to be an answer to what to do, what, what are the next steps to change that. So that's the degree of realization. Furthermore, why was it too late to appoint a Commission for a list of state assets that was so important? In the end, it came to that. Why? Why is he late for initiating a contract to regulate property-legal relations with Serbia-Montenegro? It is also a commitment from the Map of Ways, it is a commitment from the European Partnership, in fact from this commitment partnership. Why is he late? Why was it delayed, and needlessly I think, with the appointment of the State IPA Aid Coordinator and therefore brought into question the signing, or the delay in signing and the Framework Agreement on IPA and Financial Agreements, etc.? It was late, 15 appointments were sent, returned from the European Commission, etc., with the awareness that there are principles regarding this appointment and cannot be otherwise. A special question and we really need to hear a reply from the Council of Ministers today. In a significant number of institutions, directors' mandates have expired, competitions for these directors have been waiting for years. It can be said for years, months, even years. To state, I don't even have to quote now, it's known that there are dozens of institutions like that. Why? Which are the reasons.? Let's hear it? Maybe there's objective reasons. Be careful, at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers, a final team has been appointed to prepare a revised strategy for corruption and the preparation of laws for the central anti-corruption body.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25564	Mr. Genjac, you have a little more time, so let me warn you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25565	I'm sorry, so it's an obligation from the Roadmap. At the time when the expert groups were here, we didn't have it, the state was established that we had no progress in the fight against corruption. We waited all year and eventually at the last session we appointed. So why were we late, I mean, why were we late? One more thing, let's say, that Mr Špirić announced in the exhibition the formation of the Economic and Social Council as a priority. What's been done so far, why isn't it appointed? And one more question for what I have left. The Ministry of Finance's report said that the Ministry of Finance has repeatedly warned the Advocate's Office of the Law-Making Measures on the Protection of Assets... regarding the Sucession. The Council of Ministers adopted a report on the work of the Ombudsman in which a passive position in this respect is fully apparent, without any measures, without any comment. So, the ministry warns: The defences passively, the Council of Ministers adopts the work. I would have, so a whole series of questions in the best interest. So, to conclude, I think that... at the very least the next report would have to be that way to offer answers to these and similar questions and of course today I think it would be good to hear the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25566	Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25567	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will try to be something shorter than possible in business, so speak something shorter than these 10 minutes. After the discussion of Mr Genjac whose party supports this Council of Ministers, it seems to me that my discussion as an opposition MP will appear to be milder. So when they discuss those who support the Council of Ministers, then I really don't know what kind of future this Council of Ministers has!? Before I move on to specific questions, there's one previous question, and that's that I got one camera of material from several hundred pages here. One report, then one consolidated work report, then this updated work report. And, in all these pages, I found 10 pages on Cyrillic, it's a report from the Plant Protection Authority. All 16 other reports are on the Latin, even those reports in front of the ministries headed by representatives of the Serb people. I did not engage in the language the reports were written, but I must say that this way of reporting, this aspect of reporting, is absolutely contrary to the BiH Constitution. If we have waited for this report for more than two years, this first report on the work of this Council of Ministers and previous councils of ministers had one report during the term of office, I hope that this one will have more than one, then we could have waited another month to get a report in the languages and letters of the constituent peoples. As for the methodology of making the report, I support, of course, the Council of Ministers' insistence to resolve the issue in the future, at least that's how the chairman briefed us today. But the fact is that it didn't bother the Council of Ministers that as many or as many ways of reporting as possible in all ministries is approaching each other, and then it wouldn't have happened to us that certain ministries were making reports in relation to the Work Programme, which they delivered for 2008, and some were running away from that programme so they wouldn't have written that they didn't realize anything or very little from that programme. And, in that sense, I would like to commend, or to me, an acceptable methodology which was written by the Ministry of Justice and by the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Civil Affairs. All the other reports, which, I say on the 14th, mean changed, delivered, one summary report or cumulative report, are in fact a collection of reports on the work of the ministries, and some ministries are a collection of reports on the work of agencies and directors, not seriously entering into the reasons why some projects are not realised, which I think should have been the essence of this report. When it comes to the very essence, the Council of Ministers planned to adopt 102 laws for 2008. The report says he made 60. I found 47, I guess 13 more that were delivered in 2007, so adopted by the Council of Ministers in early 2008. But even if not, it means that the Council of Ministers implemented about 60 or below 60% of the planned number of laws, if the names of the law, or the area are now taken, then it can be seen that the Council of Ministers implemented 47 laws of planned 102 laws and six laws that were not in the plan for 2008 or new laws for which the need arose in 2008, so the percentage of the implementation of the plan is then below 60%. The situation seems even worse if we know 41 laws were passed in Parliament in 2008. And if we know that out of these 41 are not all the proposals of the Council of Ministers, that there are one number of MPs, I think it is three or four laws under the motions of MPs and that there are a number of laws adopted in Parliament in 2008 and whose procedure started in 2007, so we can say that the number of laws adopted by the Council of Ministers is far less below 40. It is strange if it is said that the parliamentary majority account for 30 MPs of 42, and that it would be logical that we did not have cases happening to us, and it happened that the laws were adopted unanimously in the Council of Ministers, without getting a parliamentary majority here in Parliament. Of course, care or concern should be discussed more by those who propose laws and those who adopt them, not by entering into whether they were not adopted because they were not good or for some other reason. It is vjerovatnoća that they were not good and that is why they did not receive support in Parliament. If we now look at the reports of our committees, then we have indeed one very serious situation with the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. So, for example, the report on the work of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury was accepted unanimously on our commission, the report on the work of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations was not accepted at all on our commission. So then Report 17 of the Joint Commission on Human Rights: she didn't vote either, but after the debate she concluded that the report was being referred to further procedure, I guess she was aware that by voting she would show some other result. Then, the report on the work of the Ministry of Transport was also not accepted by the Commission for Transport and Communications. The report on the work of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs was accepted by three votes "for", two "against" and three "abstained", not to say it was as if it had not been accepted. But, of course, he was accepted as a businessman, so there were three "for" out of eight. It is a particularly interesting report, and I will quote just a few findings from this report, and I repeat: it was adopted with three votes "yes", two votes "against" and three votes "retentioned". I apologize only for the moment that some of the findings, let's say from the report, say, 'A significant improvement has been achieved in almost all aspects of business', I am talking about the Foreign Ministry's report, and then, 'on a multilateral plan, they are above expectations', and then, 'in a bilateral plan, an exceptional success has been achieved in the consolidation of the foreign policy position of BiH'. And all excellent, and all excellent, and the Commission of eight members: three votes "yes". Since I promised not to be Mr. Genjac, and I did speak as Mr. Genjac, so I used all my time to keep the chairman from warning me, I will hereby interrupt my presentation and my opinion on the Council of Ministers' report. Of course, I could say in the end, what our Committee on Gender Equality said, that it goes into further procedure. I could also say it's not acceptable if all these remarks are taken. The assessment whether it is acceptable or not, unfortunately, will not affect the position of the Council of Ministers and they will be where they are, the report was accepted today or not accepted. No matter what Mr. Genjac discussed and how he discussed it, the U.S.A. will support this Council of Ministers from all known reasons. And everyone else,... because obviously for the parliamentary majority is a more important personal schedule in the Council of Ministers than to find out who are here in this report on work listed. And, finally, to thank the Council of Ministers for delivering the report. It's not common either, especially in this way, it's not common, it needs to be fair. So, with all this material, we haven't had a chance to make ourselves available. I hope next year we also have a work report for this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25568	You see, Mr. Novaković, I have not interrupted you even though you have announced that you will not even use business time. But here, I want to apologize, express my regret for the remark that the materials are not on Cyrillic, and we will make sure that it doesn't happen in the future. I hope you didn't understand that there was some sort of imagination or any evil intention. I'm really sorry, it won't happen again. I have a replica, Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25569	Here, regarding your depression, Mr. Chairman, I would like to replicate Mr. Novaković. 18 I have no problem with what the material is written on the Latin, but if it is already called upon in the language of the people to whom I belong, I beg you to avoid using the word to report, for it is not in the spirit of the language of the people to whom you belong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25570	Well, we can leave that to the experts later. We're moving on. Please don't turn away from the subject. So, Mr. Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25571	Gentlemen, the chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers, ministers, esteemed guests, media representatives, I am truly happy to have this report on work and I am glad that we have finally begun to remove one segment at a time and analyze what we have done in the past. But I must say that we have little time left until the end of the mantada, this is what we should have done in 2008, and this report should certainly be done more thoroughly and better than the one we have before us. I will analyse one segment at a time for the ministries and remind them that through the Finance Commission, we have considered many reports of the ministries and agencies, the BiH institutions, so that we know more about what was going on and what was going on. And I must remind you that most of these reports were negative, so this poetic description of individual ministries and the reporting in the poetic and rhetorical part certainly does not reflect the situation in certain ministries. We are aware that many ministries function as independent units and on the political line, that many ministries have not done what they should have done, starting with the structure of employees by national, professional lines, etc. and thus
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25572	Please tell me you're not leaving the O.R. (excuse me, Mr. Erić), that you're not leaving the O.R., we're going to lose the quorum, and it's only three, four debaters, we have another 12, a little patience, please. SAVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25573	: such a constitution and such a way of working must have yielded such, rather, negative results by certain ministries. Here, the development of economic diplomacy. We know how many of our people work and how much they participate in diplomacy. It's perfectly written here that we've been working, that we've established relationships, that everything is shining right, that we've established a relationship, and we know for sure that we haven't met any conditions, that we're not anywhere and that we definitely can't accept that part. When it comes to the Ministry of Communications and Transport, so we have reports of what they've been doing since CEMT licenses, we know what the situation is in practice. Corridor Vc? I expected you to let us know how much money we've spent, how many miles we've done, where we've arrived. Here, 19 means just a start and a rhetorical story about what's going to happen in the future and that we're going to be in debt, that we have 240 million, we don't know where we are and how we're going to spend it. I was interested in describing that way. Finance and vault? In this ministry, we really know that this is one of the most important ministries and that it distributes and spends the taxpayers' money that we have, in some ways, channeled and promised to do properly in election campaigns. As for the legal and sublegal acts, so this ministry has done a lot of work and they really deserve to be commended in that direction. International agreements and contracts? So a very important question for us. So, let's see what we've done from this ministry? Have we done anything concrete for our profit? Except for all the questions, not to read now, where we're in charge, and it's commendable that we got the material incompletely where we're in charge, now that I'm not reading in order, so this is just to pass out what we were doing, we were just in debt. And I don't see a single sentence here about how we're going to get it back, how we're doing it. And what worries me, in one part we have a lot of credit lines without digits. So that's my point, you should have listed the figures, at least to know how much we owe, and it would have been right for the MPs to know and the public to know how much we owe. When it comes to human rights and refugees, and there are a lot of objections, with a lot being done in the direction of refugees, and it is commendable, with us not having that table view of what has been done, where it has been invested, etc. Jobs in the field of strategic planning, coordination of assistance and European integration? So, strategic planning is also poetically processed and I don't see coordination: where we coordinated it, in which contracts, in which directions, what did we do in that direction, and what contracts did we sign, until we got there? And it is commendable that this ministry has really given a good look at all the legal and sublegal acts and performances. And, so I don't owe it now, what my big remark is in all these reports, logically, that we've been doing, means the laws, the understatements that we've been planning, and what's particularly evident is that they haven't written how much money we've spent and what we've done. And if someone didn't do anything and spent a lot of money, then we must definitely characterize them as negative. And whoever wrote and didn't spend a lot of money means that in the next budget planning of the ministry, we give priority and give more funding. I would suggest, so for future reports that we have, to be delivered to each ministry, means within their plan and work, how much they spent on funds and how much strategic planning they base on contracts and agreements they made with institutions, either from the EU or within the country itself. As far as my opinion on this law is concerned, this is definitely one report, except for these positive little formations that I've given, in my opinion, this report really deserves one big minus. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25574	Next up is Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25575	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, in a normal situation, a report on the work of the government of one country, is at least interesting, not to say, a significant topic for the country's parliament. As little is normal with us, I personally and expect nothing significant from this debate on this report on the work of the Council of Ministers. The very concept of the Report is not set up so that it can be discussed as a report on the work of the Council of Ministers. Namely, this report was done exactly as it worked and how the Council of Ministers functions, without a single platform, with every ministry, minister and deputy leading their policies or, better said, the party's policy that nominated it, and this is their report, not the Council of Ministers' report. In order for this report, in a given context, to be complete, I seem to be missing, despite this opening presentation, only a personal report on the work of the chairman Špirić. This is how it turns out that Mr Špirić did nothing but chair the Council of Ministers' meetings. It would be very interesting for me to hear and read the report on the work of the Council of Ministers, from the point of view of his first man, Mr Nikola Špirić, which would probably be normal. It is certainly progressing that this Council of Ministers has been able to submit any report on the work, because, despite the legal obligation, it is a real rarity in BiH and I hope that, in the future, we will make progress. I also do not want to underestimate the efforts made by the ministries that were greater or smaller than one ministry and in a particular case it will be very interesting, at the end of the debate on the Council of Ministers' work report, to analyse the debate and discussion itself in a situation where it is known that the Council of Ministers does not function as a team with a common platform, but we are witnessing that the broad parliamentary majority only works when political prey is shared in the form of functions, positions and chairs, and there are regular situations where each other's opposition within the ruling six. This is a rarely seen model of the functioning of a single government government government, but it is obvious that this model only provides what we have in BiH today, which is that the government in BiH has no responsibility for unemployment, incompetence and for the overall situation in BiH. As far as the Council of Ministers' work report itself is concerned, I think it is without substance to discuss it in this form. I have not received a single parameter from this report based on which I could positively assess the work of the Council of Ministers. Reading the report, at the very least, gives the wrong impression that BiH is already a member of the EU, that honey and milk are flowing with us and that BiH citizens are happy people. Unfortunately, our reality and reality is that BiH is far from Europe, that there are no reforms, crises and recessions taking their toll, and BiH citizens are desperate and losing all hope. The event he marked last year is certainly the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and this dominates the Council of Ministers' work report, but we must be realistic and face the fact that signing this agreement is a gift to the international community to BiH citizens, not the result of the Council of Ministers' work, and even us in this home. The merits of this Council of Ministers is that BiH is the last to implement reforms and meet the conditions on the European path in the region, while meeting the visa liberalisation commitments from the visa regime Đekn is not yet like that series, and when it will not be known. The position of this Council of Ministers can best be taken 21 from the work report itself in the part where relations are assessed with neighbouring countries where it stands, I quote: 'In relations with neighbouring countries, with Montenegro, Albania, San Marino and the Maltese order significant results have been achieved. With Greece, Italy, Slovenia and Macedonia, relations are good and are achieved with an appropriate dynamic at the level of previous years. The planned regular activities and objectives with Serbia and Croatia have not been fully realised because there has been a stalemate in resolving open issues of borders, assets and others, which were planned to negotiate in 2008, the completion of the quote. I don't think a comment on this is necessary. Nothing better is in the domains of economic, social, legal, administrative, communication and other spheres of life. When I personally assess the work of this Council of Ministers as an MP, then I cannot possibly forget the empty benches on this left hand side of the hall, even when it is debated on issues proposed by the Council of Ministers. I cannot forget more than 150 conclusions of this home that the Council of Ministers has completely ignored over the past two years. I cannot forget a number of MPs whose answers are waiting here for more than a year or so. We are here to witness when the chairman of the Council of Ministers and his deputy are replicating each other. We are witnessing the correspondence of ministers, deputies and the chairman of the press and the media. We are witnessing allegations that the chairman of the Council of Ministers in the drawer holds close to 200 initiatives and legal solutions from the resolution ministries. The charges are brought by his associates to the Council of Ministers. We are witnessing the indolence of the Council of Ministers in the open robbery of BiH's assets in the countries resulting from the collapse of the former SFRY. We are witnessing a... position of BiH in the world where we are making progress in what is negative, and we are skating at the bottom of the parameters that assess the development and overall progress of the state and society. In the end, if I were to be principled and realistic, there are ministries that, in individual evaluation, could get a positive assessment from me and that, I would say, even save the honour of the Council of Ministers, and here, above all, I mean the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. But their work is also lost in the General Grey of the Council of Ministers' work. So, personally in this report on the work of the Council of Ministers, I find no reason why the Council of Ministers would get a positive assessment of its work in 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25576	Next is Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25577	I thank you, Chairman. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, in preparation for the debate on this agenda, I have tried to create some kind of system and believe, like most of you, I wasn't exactly in a situation to do so, given that here we have received, as my predecessors have said, really a bunch of papers and if you won't do something, if you intend to blur things out, then do it that way. First, I don't understand the Council of Ministers' intention at all. So far, in my work through various institutions, I haven't had a chance to evaluate something individually, and it's a collective one, a collective grade should be given. And we, through committees, have really had a problem assessing 22 ministry work, and we haven't had the opportunity to appoint a minister individually, nor have we had the opportunity to give an individual assessment of it, or possibly replace it if it doesn't do its part of the job. This is certainly a breakthrough, because here's a report on the work of the Council of Ministers. However, that report lists what was done, and there is no word, at least little self - criticism about what was to be done and not done. And there's really a lot of it. And it would be a little and a hundred minutes to say it here. I belong, according to Novaković, to the position, means those who voted gave a vote for the appointment of this Council of Ministers, thus giving myself the right to make a clear and loud statement of what was not done, and what was expected of that Council of Ministers to do. Afterwards, here we received two documents yesterday, again bearing the name Report on the work of the Council of Ministers and, secondly, the report on the work of the Council of Ministers from some 150 pages, and I don't know what the Council of Ministers expected us to do tonight, to gather around ourselves a hundred people who will read, report to us and give us some suggestions. This is very unserious and irresponsible for Parliament to deliver these documents in this way as well. In particular, we have also received five reports on the work of administrative agencies, directorates, etc., Directorates for European Integrations, on the work of the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments, Public Procurement Agency, the work of the Border Police, the report on the work of the Foreign Affairs Service. And that's what the Council of Ministers expects us to read it for the night and give our assessment of it. I am truly, once again saying, it is irresponsible and irresponsible of you to Parliament what you have done. ... I would specifically refer to the Council of Ministers' report. Priced time, here I am very much plus and put about what was done, but what was not said is not done. And when you compare the 2008 BiH Progress Report and this Council of Ministers report, you will think it refers to two different countries, because there are incorrect findings here. Among other things, it is said that, in the Council of Ministers' report, the European Commission's positive assessment and the Progress Report is a public administration reform, and it is far from positive. What I have, the document, the Progress Report, is far from positive, is that I do not quote things, that BiH, it is said, is still at an early stage of public administration reform that needs to be accelerated, complex and predominant institutional structure of the country continues to make efficiency more difficult, etc. So this doesn't match the real state that's listed in the report. I wish we had the opportunity to discuss this report and compare the Work Programme, so this was, as the chairman said in 2008, we need to make a contribution to what will be for 2009. From the Work Programme, as much as I've had the chance to see it, there's no clear vision that those things that aren't listed are going to be done in the Work Programme. It would also be good if we could compare the report on the implementation of the Budget for the past year and also with the report on the revision of Budget and all ministries for 2008. I think the four reports would have one complete picture of the state and the work of the Council of Ministers. What I particularly want to emphasise is that we have discussed, among other things, the Commission on Transport and Communications on the work of the Ministry of Transport or Transport and Communications through the Commission. And what we saw here as really one thing that was not good is that the laws that came from the competent ministry and the parliamentary procedure were referred to: there was not enough agility, enough action to bring about the end of the adoption of these laws, so the laws ended on 23 commissions, so the commission worked with persistent, long work to save the law, so Parliament was more in a situation to save the law than the Council of Ministers. And there's been a lot of improvisation. And some of these laws we have managed to bring and save, what is said, not to fail completely. It's the same for the Council of Ministers. I don't think Mr. Chairman has given his authority enough that those laws that were here on our desk which were directly related to our Progress Report for the European Partnership, especially for the liberalisation of the visa regime, were very necessary and useful, because after hearing the reactions of the MPs who voted against not knowing that this was a condition: the Financial Lising Act, the Law on Border Control, that it was necessary for the chairman to ask his authority to adopt these laws, because we know what it means. It will also be discussed through the next item of the agenda what these laws meant, whether we should bring them in or discard them in the first reading as it was done at the previous session. In particular, the issue of this ministry is already mentioned here the problem of a CEMT license that has for many years been producing both crime and corruption and indeed one atmosphere that all those working on this leave the right to think about people who want this thing to end that they want to keep that thing in order to gain property benefit, in order to create corruption in that segment. CEMT has been allowing for five years, or I don't know how many, there's always a tender coming down and such requests are being made tenderly that it can't be over. This is one very important thing. It may be a segment of the Council of Ministers' overall report, but it is one very, very important thing for the public and very important thing for the citizens and those who deal with this job, because I am also an MP once through Banja Luka two or three months ago – the city was completely blocked. Now, that's what the Council of Ministers had to react to and respond to, precisely because of this irregularity in granting these permits. Corridor Vc? We don't have any certainty, we're having problems with a certain connection point in the south. We don't have answers to that. Public service? You know we've been here almost every session discussing the Public Service. I haven't seen enough activity by the Council of Ministers, by the Secretary-General to solve the problem. Especially – what I am and as an MP from the electoral unit I come from – is the Union railway, is the connection of Krajina with the rest of BiH, not enough space has been given to it. Finally, about too long, inadmissible long appointments of officials, i.e. the Director of RAC, European Integration Directorates, the Directorate for Idirect Taxation, Long, Long, Long, Here you saw yesterday, although this report by 2007 on the impact, related to the appointment of civil servants and officials by the Council of Ministers, is about the issue of officials. So it's inadmissible for a long time, so the Council of Ministers as a body hasn't answered... it wasn't responsible enough to solve these issues and ask and appoint those people, any of them that meets the conditions. Foreign trade deficit? There's not a word about him. BiH today, you know, is constantly increasing this deficit, we have no words here. We don't have a word about the crisis that has taken place in the world, it has entered BiH. There is not a single word, because it was already half a year last year, it is already in BiH and there is no word on it. And there are no words on what will be, what applications have had and those activities that were initiatives from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. 24 And what I would conclude in the end is that there are still many, many, many, many more here, appreciating time, so there are many more segments that might be critically referred to them, and my contribution is only to future work, means that the Council of Ministers is serious about their work, to make these things clearer, better and more concrete approaches to solving these problems that I have highlighted here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25578	Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25579	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say I disagree with Mr. Dolić's position on his pleasure with the Defense Department's report. Namely, I didn't enter the ministries individually. But, please, the Department of Defense seems to me, at least I didn't find here, the only ministry that didn't propose any law last year. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees proposed only one law in a year, the Directorate for indirect taxation planned according to the 2008 plan for 11 laws, and proposed only one law to the Council of Ministers. So, I didn't go into those details, but I want to say that if you look at it from that side of the effect, then I want to say that I don't agree with the finding, as well as with the finding of my colleague Kuzmanović, because the word is also a Serbian word, it's not a notice, it's a report, of course the words derived from the word report are the words that Vujaklija put in his dictionary as Serbian words. But it doesn't matter now. I thought my colleague would support me in my efforts to get reports according to the Constitution, not that it would replicate what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25580	Here, I see Mr. Kuzmanović is also reporting for replication. I beg you not to go in the direction, it's all ours, it's all ours, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25581	I'll be right back. Since I do not want this parliament to become a polygon for a traditional Serbian game that is a larger Srbin, I confess defeat and surrender to Mr. Novaković. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25582	Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25583	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the honourable representatives and members of the Council of Ministers, chaired by the Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations, NGOs, means of information, dear guests, here, that by chance the position appears before us from the opposition, after the discussions so far, we really wouldn't need to report and discuss anything about this report, because they said some things that we thought we would say, so maybe they said some things in a much worse form than we would have said about this report. But what's here is, here's what we're about to take part in, and maybe someone from position later on 25 will be changing some of their thinking and discussion maybe in the process of commending the Council of Ministers' report and his work in 2008, which is probably to expect from this position. But let's get back to this report. If you want to confuse someone, then deliver a lot of material, a lot of reports, and it's unrelated, in some cycle of a month and a half until just before the assembly session when you don't even have time to read them, and then that's exactly what achieves the goal. So we had, from about a month ago, about a few days ago, the first materials that referred to materials that should have talked about the Council of Ministers' work for 2008 to the material that we received this morning and that I failed to read well. But here, I managed to get the other materials, so I somehow connected what those materials are saying in this report. But good. In any case, it is good and practice, i.e. it is good that the Council of Ministers introduced this new practice to present to the MPs a report on its work in this way, and I hope that, if we are alive and healthy, it will come together and at least one seven days before the meeting on which the work is being discussed for the past year of the Council of Ministers. Someone here has asked how further, as it is not seen from the Council of Ministers' Report on how to proceed, and that question must be given by the Council of Ministers. The minister's advice let go of how much he let go of the law in the process. Of course he didn't respect his imaginary plan, and let's just say that for objective reasons it's something for subjective, etc., and here it is, something I'm worried about. However, I am more concerned that they have released into the procedure the laws for which the Council of Ministers knew that they could not pass at this Parliament, and I guess they wanted to take off their responsibility and have a number of more laws released there in the procedure, and on their fate – they should not worry, but should be concerned about the Parliamentary Assembly and someone who would criticise the Parliamentary Assembly, because they did not adopt the laws, whether they are good or not, because it was, it was meant to adopt whether someone liked it or not, or whether they were good or not, or whether they were in agreement. I think there's plenty of room for the Council of Ministers to come up with harmonised laws and be adopted by at least those who support the Council of Ministers. Otherwise, those who support the Council of Ministers would have to make a certain reconstruction in the Council of Ministers towards those who are holding back the proposals of these laws and thus have an alibi for why they did not adopt those laws or why they did not adopt the laws that came from the Council of Ministers and even those laws that passed unanimously on the Council of Ministers. Furthermore, there are even more concerns about the fact that persistently certain laws that are very important, especially for the liberalisation of the visa regime and some other tasks that we have to fulfil in order to join, here's to say, Europe: several times in one and the same text, regardless of the fact that they will not pass because they have not been agreed, because certain consultations have not been carried out, under the quotes "goose to Parliament" and of course they experience the fate they have experienced, that the law falls and that now these laws need to be put into some new procedure, and beyond that a certain time should be passed, etc. I am sure that this one of yours, or ours, would mean something else in the Council of Ministers, because if this report doesn't go through today, it's illogical that the position doesn't support it, and if it doesn't support it, then it would mean something else in the Council of Ministers, because if they don't pass the Work Report, then it's clear what's next, but I'm sure that many of them from the position will very hard to support this report because they themselves don't agree with this report, but that's how their parties will probably be ordered to support it no matter how they think or don't think about it, and that they think alike in opposition, here we have seen from so far different reports, or discussions. 26 Furthermore, here, I have also asked a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission who did not say about, well, he did not say a great deal about the work of the Council of Ministers, although I am building up, there are some things that the Council of Ministers did and could indeed be praised for, but unfortunately for them they are so much at a small percentage that they fall into the shadow of what is to be criticised, so it would be good to be more of what they positively did, so that what they did fell into the shadow of what was bad, but what to do. I asked him how you could discuss against the Council of Ministers, that is, when you on the Constitutional Commission unanimously decided to accept the Work Report. It suits me (there is none here now, Mr Novaković has come out) that it is not exactly the report of the Constitutional Commission, but that they have made a decision that only goes into further procedure, and that it is not true that they have made a unanimous decision, i.e. that they did not vote, etc. That is what you shall discuss with each other in the Commission. If incorrect, if true, discuss and confirm again, etc. But here, that's something that confuses me too, and I have to decide how I'm going to vote on the Council of Ministers, or his report. Furthermore, you have a commission here that has not given a passing assessment to the Council of Ministers for various reasons and also taxing some of these things. And here, I will say, and I am obliged to say, the opinion of the Joint Commission on Oversight of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency in which, I say, I was the only one from the opposition, all of them from the post, here are my colleagues and I can confirm: I was about the easiest when there was criticism of the work, that is, according to this report of the Council of Ministers for the past year. And I have to convey a position, which I don't need to convince right now, that I'm not wasting time, you have here in the materials of the Commission's position and it's true why this committee that, I said earlier, was just... composed by the opposition, at that moment everyone was from a position, said it couldn't be fully supported because the Council of Ministers did not bring in some key, or proposals of the platform, etc., key things that would again be crucial to our intelligence and security policy as a whole. So, as far as we're concerned, here I am now going to say for myself. There's what the Council of Ministers did, and it can't be said that he didn't do anything that was good. There's even where they felt that the parliamentary question should be answered, that it responds quickly, then they can react, and in the regular procedure they didn't respond and they didn't want to react, but when a parliamentary question is asked, then they react, and that's a positive thing. But here I repeat again, it's so minor of what they failed to agree, to do, and then it comes into the shadows. Furthermore, the Council of Ministers has, on several occasions, aroused the public by its copying, I don't know, either, by shooting, under quotes to say, through the means of information and then it is evident from that that such Council of Ministers cannot work together and of course that a report will have to come in this form in which it came. I would be pleased if they had consolidated their forces within themselves and then, together with a position that supports them, found at least one or two shifts in the Council of Ministers. It doesn't have to be from the first man, or the ministry from the deputy, so I don't know who, so they said, "He's the one who's holding us back, he's from our party, he's from our position, but we can't work for him." And this, given that they have not proposed any changes, no reconstruction or any promotion in the work of the Council of Ministers, does not justify them for such a report and, as far as I am concerned, I will not be able to support the 2008 Council of Ministers' report. Thank you very much. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25584	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Margin Raguž, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25585	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, may be a little unusual what I'm about to say but I think some things should be reminded of. If we remember Dayton and 1995 and the way the Council of Ministers was established then from three ministries and two co-chairs, then the monthly and alternating presidency... to this day, I personally believe that evolution here is pronounced and that positive shifts are obvious and that this is the only report by the Council of Ministers, regardless of the views, legitimate views of colleagues, especially colleagues from the opposition, this report deserves attention, of course and critical consideration. What I'm trying to say is that we cannot look at a separate Council of Ministers in relation to the overall BiH environment and we cannot look at it separately from the position of the BiH Parliament. And, I say, when we evaluate this Council of Ministers, we also take part in our own responsibility in achieving the roles and programme objectives of the Council of Ministers. I think that's fair to say. And why would I say that? Well, I'll tell you because part of that responsibility needs to be settled and the fate of certain laws that went from the Council of Ministers and came to Parliament, so let's see what the fate of all these laws was and how we applied to some of these laws in particular. And the third thing, for the introduction, I will remind you here and I regret that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić, in his introduction did not remind you of the programme objectives signed on 3 January 2007, then by the leaders, then seven political parties, and I can now say that the PDP that signed it then and the People's Party Working for Betterment are no longer part, at least as we can recognize in public, part of the parliamentary majority that supports these programme objectives, although some of them have stepped forward, I and I do not know how and in what way, by not explaining it to the public or Parliament, because of some relations in some other parts of BiH, with a particular party, and not in relation to the general objectives and projections, and which is also important to say that we today we have a formal position that five parties remain above these programme objectives. And what was missing in this report and the chairman and the report is to what extent the work of the Council of Ministers in 2008 was to achieve these programme objectives. I think it would be correct for all those who support the work of this Council of Ministers and ensure the possibility of passing and adopting laws, their implementation and... I'll just briefly remind you of some of those goals. I think it is very important and that this debate actually only makes sense if we come out of this debate institutionally stronger and allow the Council of Ministers to strengthen its role in the coming year and a half in this term, and that Parliament assumes its share of responsibility. 28 Police Reforms? Is this responsibility to the Council of Ministers or to those who have not approved the appointment of these committees after so long, a very important issue on the European path. We need to be correct. The reform of the public broadcasting system, co-operation with The Hag, public administration reform and reduction of administration, beware, the issue of countering corruption, I am not in the report, one of the five points of programme priorities, I have not seen any relevant assessment of where BiH is and what seems to be, although we have had discussions, and where, with the participation of resolution ministers and justice and security and in Parliament, but I think these are the things where we simply have to show in the public report what we are in and what is necessary to do, in particular strengthening criminal law and sanctions provided for in this area. Then, the reform of education, the addition of criminal legislation. But I'll remind you of some more... He says, 'To bring constitutional solutions that will establish a functional, modern BiH with European principles.' And I see these days how much we struggle in Parliament to establish only a working group. It is no longer just the responsibility of the Council of Ministers but also of Parliament. So then: regulate border issues with neighbouring countries, please, one very important question. And in this report, the Council of Ministers said that in the sixth month of this year, the Council of Ministers adopted an Integrated Border Management Strategy, with the accompanying Action Plan. He says: "The adoption of this strategy is one of the conditions set out in BiH on the road to European integration and decisions on the appointment of the Border Management Commission have also been taken to implement this strategy effectively." What about our border? Here, does anyone have a line to tell us what's going on with our border? I don't see a single sentence here. And I'm not going to bring into the context of some recent events, and especially in the context of the permanent definition that BiH is the place where people end up, money, drugs and where it is, well, the usual. So are we going to talk about this later through that road map and why are our people in that situation and our citizens when it comes to visa liberalisation and meeting those standards? I took that as an illustration. I now move on to what the Council of Ministers has been obliged to say through achieving these programme objectives in its report. So I'm going to page 7, he says, "Development of economic, or economic diplomacy." He says, "The foreign ministry is determined to pay special attention in economic cooperation with other countries." I think the time of these formulations should indeed be long behind us. And this is one well-intentioned suggestion that we still have some parameters in the reports, how many people are in function and what are program projections and what is expected to be done through this sector of economic diplomacy, and in particular that such things do not happen in the context of, say, the abolition of the only BiH Embassy on a single continent, and then it is said parallelly to establishing an efficient infrastructure, etc. That absolutely grade can't stand. And let me remind you that this continent generates a kind of tourism that is extremely important, it is religious tourism, for this country and let's go, gentlemen, whether this diplomacy is in the function of achieving these interests or not that infrastructure!? It is one question for the foreign ministry, and I agree that in many other segments of the ministry progress has been made. Then, here's just as an illustration, not to say I don't touch any other ministries, here I will now mention the Ministry of Transport and Communication when it comes to the strategic matter that has been reached by consensus in this country, it's Corridor Vc. Here are the deadlines until when the documentation is scheduled, the purchase of land, everything else. There are no sentences about whether there are obstacles/limiting obstacles and whether these deadlines will be met and whether these deadlines are realistic etc. 29 Likewise, when it comes to foreign trade, the CEFTA agreement was one of the most significant multilateral contracts. We do not have any parameters and quantifications in the Implementation Report and the results of this agreement and its application to BiH. So, the other thing I want to say is that, regardless of all the limitations and political and constitutional and constant struggles over the transfer of competences that take place here and around jurisdiction, I am not going to say about the transfer of competences, which is a legitimate issue both by BiH and by entities, I personally think that the Council of Ministers, with all the positive things that need to be affirmed and we don't really need to look at black-and-white here, has become what I need, it is a locomotive, a locomotive of Euro-Atlantic integration in the public, in terms of perception and... generating a positive climate and a requirement for all other institutions that this role can be properly achieved. And I think and expect both of the presidents, Mr Špirić, and of the ministers, and also of us in Parliament, that after, I would say, these two and a half years, when we have one truly envious dose and experience and things done, we go in that sense, because you can't, if you don't set some..., some deadlines, when we're going to silence and when you realistically expect candidate status, and how you're preparing the public, all those who need to mobilize to meet these obligations, how you'll expect that from some others, if you don't have a daily transparent, daily and daily transparent and mobilizing set up by the Council of Ministers and institutions, and in the public, in the media and on an international basis. These are also suggestions, so this is a shared responsibility for us in Parliament and the Council of Ministers. Also, I will illustrate another issue, when it comes to the work of individual ministries, it is the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. I can accept the assessment that shifts have been made in terms of creating the assumption that this process is not being shut down, I would say, but I really don't think that all the segments and instruments that this country needs to engage to go to... those at least 50,000 families, and I'm saying a lot more, which is expected from the Council of Ministers and this country. And finally, any consideration of this report if it does not result in a new relationship between the Council of Ministers and Parliament, in my opinion, makes no sense. It was, what Mr. Husein Nanić said, that he must have the elements that he should play more actively when the laws come to parliament. And surely, in such an interaction, it would contribute much more intensively and quality of flow and adoption and the quality of these laws. It's one segment on which the Council of Ministers must work. Another thing is also the continued presence in the legislative procedure of the Council of Ministers' representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25586	Martina, I'm sorry, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25587	Here I go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25588	We've been two minutes and I'm begging you and the others to...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25589	I've never gone too far. I'm sorry. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25590	I waited two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25591	No, I didn't see it. And I finish, I accept, I finish. And here's an apology and I'm early. I would just like to say on one example that in addition to this role that is actually formal, which is legislative, the Council of Ministers should have one, I would say, role of a quality reaction to what is happening and when it comes to some processes of economic, environmental, natural, disaster and everything else, I am afraid that we have a kind of isolation of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the unwillingness to go together to resolve these issues. And here, I and HDZ in 1990 will track down these suggestions, expecting and believing that we will move on, support, along with these suggestions, the work of the Council of Ministers to realize a part of these programming goals that have not yet been touched. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25592	We have a large number more reported, so I'm really asking you to move in business time, and here and I recommend, of course, that it's trying to sum up what it wants to say. Here you go, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25593	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, I will make an effort to speak less than expected business time. This report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2008 I believe that it is not only an opportunity to analyse and discuss a series of facts presented here and given, but it is an opportunity to, as the Parlamnt who has chosen this Council of Ministers, face problems, or difficulties and difficult circumstances that are evident and clear to all of us that exist in the work of the Council of Ministers. It is clear to all of us that certain opportunities have been identified for the analysis of such difficulties in which the Council of Ministers acts and operates, during 2007 and 2008, but unfortunately there was not enough, or some were not willing to open these issues at all and open these topics. It is clear that problems were mentioned last year and even the debate on the situation, i.e. the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on the Ministry of Security, was initiated, but even on committees and here in Parliament were immediately rejected and only the possibility and way to escape from it was sought. But unfortunately, the Council of Ministers couldn't escape these problems and had to act and function in such an environment as it is. What I want to say more is that my distinguished colleague Raguž said that the work and action, that is, the results of the Council of Ministers' work, cannot be seen isolated from the work of this Parliament and from the overall environment in BiH. Why do I say that? Because that ambience that exists here among us MPs is directly reflected in the Council of Ministers, because the parties that function here are participating, in fact one part of the party is participating and supporting the Council of Ministers. And what we do, do and act in this parliament is actually a reflection from society in BiH and we cannot escape from it. But it's just a question and a matter of whether or not we want to talk about it out loud. Do we want to say that I, as an MP from the RS, see problems in one way, let's say, here I will take the example of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, and in another way is seen by my fellow MP from Federation 31 BiH. And the question now is whether or not we want to talk about it. Unfortunately, so far, there has been no will to discuss this for a variety of reasons. As regards the Council of Ministers, there have been objections here and even on the Commission for Foreign Affairs, whose member I am, there have been remarks that the form in which this report was delivered is not satisfactory because it is a report by the ministries, not by the entire Council of Ministers. In my opinion, that remark does not stand because the Council of Ministers... is in fact the ministries and other state institutions and agencies that make it up. And the chairman said at the outset that he had given an introduction and an exposé on general remarks on the action and outcome of the Council of Ministers. What I believe should have been given and not given in this report is whether, with each ministry, individually or daftly, at the end of the entire report: the report on the execution of the Budget. I agree here with my colleagues who have potentiated this because all the activities that are listed here directly have spent certain funds in this country or have implicated the spending of certain funds. On the concrete results of the Council of Ministers' work, I would also like to say that all those shortcomings and, let me say, unsatisfactory results that some MPs view as unsatisfactory results, I do not think that all responsibility can be transferred to the Council of Ministers because we know that the Council of Ministers still lacks the status of government and that it does not have a social development dimension as do the governments of entities and cantonal governments. So, for the social and economic environment, one part of responsibility must certainly be transferred to the cantonal, or entity governments, and what we can expect from this Council of Ministers – in fact, what we have already expected silently, and some have talked about, especially after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement – was the expectation that the Council of Ministers should update and speed up all the activities and obligations BiH has on the road to joining Euro-Atlantic integration and joining the EU. In that part, I think it's... I'm asking you, Mr. Chairman, to listen to each other or I'll hang up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25594	You go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25595	So in that part, I think the Council of Ministers has made a certain contribution, proposed certain legal solutions. It is true that these legal solutions have not been approved in Parliament. Why they didn't come along and why we didn't adopt them and why we didn't actually do our part of the work as we did, as we didn't, we should say it loudly and loudly, because you know very well that the Centre of Civil Initiatives has calculated exactly how long it took us to adopt the law in the last year as Parliament, and we haven't adopted it. You know it didn't happen because there is no political consensus between parties that are participating and that we thought certain laws couldn't be passed, especially when SNSD didn't vote for some laws. These are laws that were revoted ministers from the Serb people participating in the Council of Ministers. So these are the obvious reasons and the collapse, or the rejection or return of those laws, can't be the Council of Ministers' fault now that we didn't actually do the final job here that we were supposed to do and that maybe we could talk about the reasons why we didn't do it. 32 When it comes to the ministries, individually about the ministries and their reports, what I could conclude from this report that was given here, I think that the Ministry of Finance and the vaults were working according to the regulations and laws that had to be followed and that it was actually obeying the Budget Act that was being implemented as planned to be implemented. Of course, did they, whether they needed to point out from time to time certain problems and certain implementation of these budgets as it went, especially now in the context of the already global economic crisis being caught up in BiH – this is now a different matter and another issue. That's why I said it was desirable to deliver a report on the execution of the Budget with this report, and then we'd have a more complete picture. Also, from the ministries, I think the Ministry of Civil Affairs has done just as well in the past year, just because a large number of the laws that the ministry has proposed to the Council of Ministers have been adopted here and that we have at least disputed over those laws proposed by the ministry. The ministry I work on is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Security. I've said a lot about the Foreign Ministry at the Foreign Affairs Commission, and I'm going to say very briefly here and just count it. I don't think the Foreign Ministry in the past year has quite met the role and the task it had, for the following reasons. The ministry's task was, above all, in the process of bringing BiH closer to Euro-Atlantic integration, to achieve the best possible results in repairing BiH's image in the world, as a country that wants to join the EU. I don't think anything's been done on that plan. What we also expected from this ministry was the affirmation and improvement of economic diplomacy that was necessary and very important to carry out our diplomatic-consular representations in the world. Unfortunately, that didn't happen either, and I even think, in that context, so since it didn't happen, it didn't happen that the ministry did something to improve the situation in the diplomatic-consular network of BiH in the world. To SNSD interventions that we had, say, the situation that our ambassador to the Netherlands said he would defend interests in the Netherlands of the Bosnian nation, that we had an ambassador in Russia who, when mentioned at a certain rally, had left a meeting. So, we have a variety of problems, we have the abolition of the embassy, we have the dissatisfaction of our people living abroad by the work of our diplomatic and consular offices. None of this was done, and at the end of the report, it said that the plan and programme of the foreign ministry was achieved only partly because, I will paraphrasise, the overwork of the foreign minister. So if the minister was unable to attend or was on a trip, that means the Ministry should stop, not work. I am completely against it, and I think that is exactly how the foreign minister's approach to the obligations it has in the resolution ministry has led to such a position. Not to mention the interpersonal problems that have already been received in our foreign ministry of certain affairs, because these are things that are constantly spinning in the media, spinning in the public, where we have a simple relationship between the minister and his associates, to say the simplest, intrinsic relationship.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25596	Please don't walk. Please, it's a session. Please. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25597	So, we have an intimate relationship and, here I am going to finish, Mr. Chairman, I think that today would be useful and important for both the Council of Ministers and Parliament to finally present to us the chairman in the most generic lines what he expects, which are difficulties. Whether these are personal, whether they are organisational, whether they are some other kind of difficulties that the Council of Ministers has been dealing with so far (successfully or unsuccessfully, I will not talk about it now) and how Parliament can contribute to it. What we have seen so far, I know that two deputy ministers have already been removed and that Parliament will have its own obligation and, of course, in some other personal issues, I think Parliament can help. But it's not just the difficulties of this Council of Ministers. And of course, SNSD will support this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25598	So, just to be clear about the duration of the discussion, etc., for those who keep warning me, everyone uses over 10 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25599	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll really try to, look, I break that rule to speak all over 10 minutes. I will, I promise. Here, I will speak first as the President of the Communications and Transport Commission, who, as the committee responsible, discussed the report of the resolution ministry, and then in personal capacity. First, this part, very short. It has already been said that the Commission has not accepted this report or, rather, it has partially accepted it. The report was not accepted because the Commission estimated that it was unrecognizable, that it was smudge, that it was not complete and that it was already in question. I also think Mr. Erić, who is a member of the Commission, spoke about it, but Mr. Raguž, whose discussion I fully support and he will help me fit in within these 10 minutes. The Commission has singled out a part of this report concerning the activities of the Civil Aviation Directorate for which it has assessed that it is both complete and complete and relevant in its personal capacity. We here need to see what we can do today. I'm saying that we're not evaluating ministers at the Council of Ministers today, we're assessing the work of the ministries. The ministry also includes officials, as you know and, here, when specifically the Ministry of Communications and Transport, mostly this report is not accepted because officials have not done their job. I am not a lawyer to the minister, of course, and you well know that officials are not elected by the minister but are elected by the agency and are elected by them. But this is an opportunity for Parliament to point out and call on ministers to do their job to those who take their work inexplicably, here, and the reports to Parliament, because once in a while ministers evaluate officials and assistants, etc. And based on their grades, they get positive and negative grades. So this is one of the things that should be the message of this report. 34 The second message should be our reference to what the Council of Ministers and all ministries have not done, what is it that Parliament insists of them to do in the next period, if we want to benefit from some kind. For I would remind you here of a philosophical thought that says, "Bog, give me strength to change what I can change, that I may not touch what I cannot change and wisdom to distinguish from one another." We cannot, nor can it be useful to talk about whether we support the Council of Ministers or do not support it. Here, let's start from not supporting him. What do we get? Do we want a crisis in BiH, etc., etc. So it's not about that. We need the prudence here to do what we can, to our conclusions that we require the Council of Ministers to do those jobs that we consider not to be done to make the next year's report better. I think it's the goal of all of us, not to define whether we're for the Council of Ministers or not. And in this context, here I will give up some questions and the Ministry of Communications and Transport that we have assessed were negative there, and here is my colleague Erić talking about it and, behold, I am announcing the Minister's question already for the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly about the distribution of CEMT permits. I am not going with this one-time operational question to burden one discussion with a general discussion involving the entire Council of Ministers, the work of the entire ministries, and I think that, here, I will contribute to the acceleration of this debate today and to the conclusion that will help make the next report better than this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25600	Thank you for your contribution, for your efficiency. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25601	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, above all, something about the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission, as fellow Okolić also spoke about it. To this day, none of my colleagues in the Commission have objected to the content of this report. I have looked at it and if any remarks exist, then it is possible, (so I have also spoken to the Secretary of the Commission before here), that it is about the application of the Rules of Procedure in this report, because the Commission and Parliament report either accepts or does not accept. There may have been a speech there about receiving knowledge, and here it says that it has been accepted but we will certainly discuss it on the Commission. I don't think it matters, after all, because the final decision is made by Parliament. And here, you can take it as if there isn't this opinion of the Constitutional Commission, until we discuss this issue on the Commission ourselves, if that's important to anyone. What I want to say to this occasion is, in fact, what I've already talked about on several occasions, when this Council of Ministers' meeting and its work has already been discussed. In my opinion, it is right that all those who say that the work of the Council of Ministers cannot be taken out of the context of overall opportunities, overall political opportunities in BiH and cannot also be implemented and considered outside the context of the work of both the Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. That is one, unfortunately, great truth, because the results, let's say, of the Council of Ministers' behaviour, in such a situation, are not what I expected and what I want to see from this Council of Ministers. I want the BiH Council of Ministers to really be the leader in the reform process in BiH. And as for that, (the Council of Ministers for the second time, discussing these documents, I am speaking from this place), so I want 35 of the BiH Council of Ministers to be a leader in reform processes and I want it to rise above the daily political rhetoric and attitudes that take place in this rhetoric. Because neither the Council of Ministers nor the BiH Parliament acts according to the views expressed in everyday rhetoric and behaviour. Here, to speak now about politicians or leaders, the Council of Ministers acts under the Constitution, the Council of Ministers follows the law, the Council of Ministers acts on its own rules of procedure and the Council of Ministers acts on the basis of the commitments that BiH has made to the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the obligations that BiH has on its NATO path. That is why I think it would be very good to see in the next period a Council of Ministers making decisions based solely on that. I know that it is difficult to take a sometimes opposite view of what the leader of the political party said in public speech, but I am waiting for that moment and I claim it is in the interest of all BiH citizens. It may not be written at a given time as a plus, in the middle in which it lives..., the chairman of the Council of Ministers or one of the ministers, but in the long term it is quite certain for them and for all of us in BiH. Currently in BiH there is a policy of obstruction, a policy of impasse on the European and Euro-Atlantic security routes. I don't think that policy is in the interest of anyone in BiH. I remember well when we adopted the VAT Act and the Law on the Administration of indirect taxation that there was a big debate over the transfer of competence. Now, after a few years of your laws, to back up this claim of mine, is that, I'm bringing this up, I'm asking all of us. If today for the citizens of BiH, in any part of BiH, we ask whether you want to have three again instead of one customs administration today and for your pensions to be less than 100 KM for this reason, in order to get an answer not to that question. Eh, we should wait for this moment, the leader should recognize, the leader's role requires recognition of the process that will take place in the future and will come quite safely this moment. I can also say today that there will certainly come a moment when we will be able to say these words in other areas because we are moving quickly towards Europe, if we are moving quickly towards the EU, according to the NATO alliance. That's what I expect from the Council of Ministers, that's what I think would be good for this country. And when it's a policy of obstruction, I'm sorry, I'd like to be answered, so I'm told it's not like that, but I can't interpret it any other way. First, some obligations are not met, because as to how to interpret them, let's say, and after several OHR requests, no order for a list of assets is issued. Well, when it's issued, then you try to issue only a partial warrant for a partial list of assets and it's finally the way it's supposed to be, because now a warrant has been issued to write down the property the way it's supposed to be written. So, why is the selection of the director of the RAC challenged? Is there a need for that? The European Commissioner said, the law said, all said, but I think we must rise above the requirements, which may come towards one part of the Council of Ministers, such a nature. I want to see the chairman of the Council of Ministers who will be the first to appear down among the returnees on the day of the Fazlagic Tower mosque, chairing. Let me see his deputy who will go to the Drava, among the Serb returnees, and ask them what they need or others among the Croatian returnees, and ask them what they need. I want a picture like that. I don't think we need much to do in BiH. We just need a little goodwill, and in the end, we'll all be better off in BiH. Now, let me not further discuss it. When we separate this political rhetoric that we have in BiH, the Council of Ministers and Parliament and the Presidency, unfortunately, which fit into it, I think now is the time to say that both the Council of Ministers and Parliament and the Presidency of BiH and all BiH institutions will meet their obligations under the Constitution, by law and by international 36 commitments made by BiH and I think we need to change the relationship between Parliament and the Council of Ministers. I don't think we should wait another year to get a report from the Council of Ministers, but we must have the precise obligations that each of us should do on this trip and I suggest that every three months here in Parliament, at the most every three months, we analyse what has been done, this especially when it comes to the European Partnership and NATO Road BiH, and it does not mind that there are other obligations, rather than that we have a situation where the Council of Ministers and what the law proposes (e.g. 'The Law on State Border Control', 'The Law on Arms and Control of the Movement of Military Equipment and Weapons', 'the Law on Lawyerry') and which passes through the Council of Ministers will be welcomed here in Parliament and, through entity voting, put into the car, or unadopted. So let's see, and let's just say, the Council of Ministers is responsible for this, Parliament is responsible for this, simply this kind of inventory. BiH is in such a situation today that we must perform more often, not wait a year. And I suggest that it be three months, that we have this debate as far as we can every three months. And when it comes to the visa regime, it will be the next item of the agenda, I think that in a month, if we will – and we said we will, because we have accepted international obligations – we can meet all the obligations that BiH has when it comes to visa-free regimes. The Council of Ministers, Parliament, action and in a month's time we meet again here and see who failed in that chain. And the international community, it should monitor these processes. So we need the role of the international community in these processes to simply write, the time has come when the obligations must be entered and when the name must be spoken for who has not fulfilled his obligations. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25602	Replica, Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25603	Thank you, Chairman. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, guests, at least three things I had to replicate. One thing, an obstruction that, although not said here in a way that is done by colleagues from the RS, but in connection with the entity's vote, has moved the ball to RS -- it is simply inconclusive. It is not allowed in BiH to criticise people who stick to the Constitution and the rules of procedure of this parliament in the way it is done here. Because after that, a reaction is produced that the voting system that you want here to work for in the Constitutional Commission, which you have shown in many ways, is simply not a model in which BiH can function. It is not even a model that, as you said, according to OHR's order, there is no listed property, not a model on which some MPs, especially not from the SNSD, will do these jobs. We will do a list of assets if we agree in BiH that we should do it the way we should do it, not through OHR's warrant. You were wrong because you cited VAT reform as an ideal reform. You know how well this reform is arranged: in principle, the Bosnian pot, the state meat, the cabbage entities, and together we eat the Bosnian pot. And then We said, "Don't do it like that." We also said that we are looking for the principle of distribution of VAT in multiple items, not a single rate. You U.S.A. insisted on it, and now you can see it can't go that way. We've also talked about 37 proper distributions from VAT, we've already established that the Federation, I say, took that money several times, and it will only be established on how many other examples of that money have been taken. And, at the same time, I want to tell you that the laws that have come from the Council of Ministers can be supported in this House if jurisdiction is not passed, specifically the Proposal for a Law on Arms Control. The law has a constitutional basis, but the implementation of the law is on an entity-level basis, so the agreed law on our part will be acceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25604	Ah, here, now we have these culinary skills. Let's go, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25605	Look, Mr. Živković, don't be angry with what I'm about to say, but you really deserve more and more that I don't react to your allegations at all, and I'm really not going to say anything this time. I will only take the opportunity of this replica and invite us all to a key word that is now called responsibility in BiH. So, let's all be responsible for the obligations we have. I just forgot to say, let's say, Mr. Chairman, it's incomprehensible to me, for example. that we get the amandman (first time the amandman, from Dejton to here) to the Constitution of BiH and that your services do not write when the amendment will come into force. I didn't hear anyone ask about what he did wrong. I was upset when I heard what the report was written to you by the Secretary of the Commission and I will ask that question on the Commission. So there's no responsibility to the job. People get paid, there's no responsibility. You are required to be a leader and to be responsible for this. What's wrong, Minister Ljubić, is that bridge over the Holidays down there moving up before the Počitelj (is that a problem?) It's about creating anxiety down there amongst people. Let's think about it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25606	Brother Šefik, who's the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25607	Nothing, I'm done, two minutes, done. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25608	All right, all right, cheers. Bajazit Jašarević. Is it a replica, sir?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25609	Replication is on that part that's...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25610	Spy, huh? 38
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25611	No, no, Mr. Živković. So, when it comes to VAT law, I don't think it would be good to leave a message that there's any fraud, that it's one of the most sensitive processes in every country, that those who follow that area know, but after all these years of law enforcement, that the choice between one and the differentiated VAT rate was made correctly, that it gave positive effects. Negative effects can also be talked about, but after so many years, those with the most knowledge in this area think that in countries like BiH, the single tax rate is the best measure to fight the gray economy, to spread the scope of taxpayers, and then, eventually, at some point, to think about introducing VAT as part of a social package. How will this second step come to pass? This parliament has in its conclusion obliged the Council of Ministers to analyse the application of the VAT law and to propose, on the basis of this analysis, another approach to Parliament, possibly. So it was a picture of this event when it came to VAT law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25612	Okay. Now it's Azra Hadžiahmetović's turn. The computer's gone a little crazy, but we're also running mechanical records. Here you go, Azra. No, no, it sure is. Sure, we keep records.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25613	First of all, thank you. I apologize to all those who didn't follow, I was first in line now,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25614	So you touched the button a little bit, and it's okay. AZRA
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25615	: well then, with the circumstances of this great Council of Ministers' Work Programme with this weight, I pressed this application button,... so I excluded myself from the real error of the Council of Ministers' Work Programme, i.e. the button. And here, let me begin my discussion first by correcting Mr. Živković's wrong quote. Just before in your association with the Bosnian pot, so meat, state, cabbage, entities, you see, I really need to tell you that it's not a Bosnian pot. First, a Bosnian pot is a dish with much more ingredients and each ingredient has the same specific weight. _________(?) He's getting mixed up. 39 It mixes everything and indeed vegetables, every single one, and the more it has, the better the meat, the better the meat, has the same treatment in the Bosnian pot.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25617	So, let's finish these cooking skills.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25618	Here, he really blames the quote, because the Bosnian pot is not meat and cabbage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25619	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25620	Dear all here present,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25621	Jovica, get in position. AZRA
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25622	: The chairman of the Council of Ministers, just let me maybe start my discussion a little unusually again, and perhaps with some invitation to honesty. Here in this debate, I've been wondering all the time what we're missing here in the O.R. when we have themes of this kind where we might possibly take a step forward to speed things up for the better, so I sometimes wondered if it's wrong because maybe we have public transmissions of these sessions, because we might have guests here and I don't know what the bullet is today, which is the bullet. Because here, let's all be honest here in this House, of us MPs, first of all, we're all on our working bodies, when we got the first draft report on the work of the Council of Ministers, we were dissatisfied because we got the summary reports, and 99% of the discussion today, after we got that corrected, and a little bit of this synthetic report by the Council of Ministers, 99 percent of the discussion was again on the summary reports. The individual parts of that summary report, so the Ministry of Transport discussed the report on the work of a ministry, or the Foreign Affairs Commission's report on the work of another ministry. So let's be honest, we didn't talk about the Council of Ministers as a whole either. Therefore, all the remarks and criticisms that went towards the Council of Ministers, I understand more in terms of the contribution of what the Council of Ministers Chairman has announced, and this is a unique methodological framework for reports of this kind and dissipations of this kind, because they are not reports of ordinary work, but are indeed in terms of a substantial incentive to improve work. Furthermore, I must mention, let's say, for those who may not have been able to work with counterpart Špirić in Parliament as a parliamentary speaker, I know that counterpart Špirić would be the most fierce critic today of this report on the work of the Council of Ministers, even more severe than the most fierce criticisms heard of this speaker today. I'd like him from that angle, maybe even today in the closing word or at one of the next sessions, to introduce us to what's really a problem. Because you see, if we have a report on the work of the Council of Ministers and if we look at you as a team, everything that's good 40 you've done as a team, everything that's bad goes to all of you as a team at the address, when we talk about the Council of Ministers. And that, let's not now say what counterpart Milica says, says ministers, reports on the work of ministries headed by the Serbian people's ministers. So will we have reports like that next time? So we're going to have a report first from this people's ranks, then that people, and then we're going to go one more step further and we're going to have a report from the political parties, and we're going to have a little bit of this party, that party. Are we going to caricate this thing to infinity or are we really going to honestly see what the problem is, if there's a problem with the Council of Ministers, or what's the reason? Is this perhaps the wrong concept of governance, perhaps by projects or absence of management by projects or management by goals, or absence. Perhaps now we need a little more crisis management because of the complete situation in both BiH and what comes to us a little bit outside and gives us a mark of the situation in BiH. Is there any more of that collectiveity missing in the work of the Council of Ministers? And what's the problem, why isn't it there? Because I remember the chairman in his inaugural speech mentioning teamwork and the Council of Ministers as a collective body. So let's be honest! Or the relation of the Council of Ministers and Parliament? I agree with that because the work of the Council of Ministers and this Parliament are really closely linked, and not only that, they are also part of the overall political scene in BiH. What happened or where the bullet is yes, e.g. The laws adopted by the Council of Ministers are not supported in this House. Even more so, the chairman, they are not supported by the political option that you belong to. Let's talk straight. How come, for example, the ministers come here, and now to be honest, most of us are truly with great respect when the points from the ministry that come from the ministry come from the agenda, so, if nothing else, participates here with their presence or is willing to answer some questions, while some ministers or there are no or no ministers sitting here until that point comes on the agenda, and they leave the gym. Is this giving MPs a chance to break the laws of the Council of Ministers? To be a little bit, I think we're talking that way. Why didn't we adopt this revised return strategy last time? Are we truly for us to realize our return to the extent that it is more possible to realize both in accordance with our commitment and financial opportunities, etc.? He came to the chair here and invited all of us to adopt this strategy as soon as possible, because there's money. You know that... every year the project is delayed because we start, first, when we adopt the budget late, etc., and then the realisation of all this starts. I want to invite you all to honesty, if we want to use this year's effective work ahead of us for one step forward. If we don't, then of course we can stick our heads in the sand like an owl. The second thing I would like to draw attention to, of course, to what the chairman has already mentioned is the very methodology of making reports and the need for promotions, etc., but there is something in this methodology that needs, either in this report, or in the speech of today's Council of Ministers to be, and that is what was first done in relation to the plan. Because I made a little joke that the Council of Ministers' Work Programme for 2008 was quite extensive, and here I have the first report with the updated report, the summation, and then this synthetic report that's a little bit smaller today, but, the chairman, can you make some kind of comparison here. And let's see what hasn't been done, or, not in terms of criticism, there are probably objective reasons why something you planned in 2008 wasn't realized, but let's see what we can do to make 41 do. That this 2009 programme will not be in your report next year an even lower report, and the programme is quite large, and the result in BiH is catastrophic. I'm trying to get you all to one thing in this way, to try to honestly access this and try to fix something, if there's anything we can do to fix it. There's not much time. Effective work before the Council of Ministers and this Parliament is a year. It's a lot of work. The circumstances today are completely different from last year, not to mention when this Council of Ministers was elected. Don't let us split up now by whether this ministry worked well, it didn't, whether it is or not, let's leave it to the Council of Ministers. Let him handle the chairman of the Council of Ministers. If there is a problem, let us report here to Parliament what is the problem, to try to overcome it. If we have open questions, try to overcome such problems. Chairman, I know that the biggest problems encountered during and adoption of the legislative procedure were the requirements of entity or cabbage, according to counterpart Živković, that some things concern entity competences etc. I think it's finally matured time to see, in a way, how the vertical system of administration works.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25623	Time's running out!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25624	I'm sorry, I'll be done soon. Or how the Council of Ministers communicates with entities, because that might help us overcome some of the problems. And in that sense, I suggest that you might consider, in some way, how, with these new circumstances, especially now in these new circumstances, we can focus on the crisis management strategy according to objectives and projects and try to save ourselves, I will no longer speak up but save what can be saved in the next year. I ask you a little more honesty within Parliament or in the communication of Parliament – Council of Ministers, if we really want to do something. Everything else, I don't think it's for today's story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25625	You'll have more time, probably. Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25626	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs, of course, the media, colleagues and colleagues, so the replica refers to only one part of the exhibition of counterpart Hadžiahmetović. You know, you keep calling for honesty, and at least I'm famous for it, and I support you, but when you just mentioned a strategy on solving refugee issues, then it has a very long context and it doesn't need to be imputed to us that we didn't accept it, but we can never accept any document 42 that favors only one vision, and three are equal. And when it was that strategy, that's when I spoke, and I said in my name that I wouldn't accept it, because there was only going to be a return. And again, I support the return of refugees, I call on all Bošnjak and Hrvat to return. But also, who has the right of us to challenge people who have decided to live in the place where they choose, that is the basic human right, to solve their problems. And thirdly, in that strategy, why is it avoided, here 13 years after the war, the formation of both the commission and the trust and the compensation of that third equal vision of all three of these, the compensation of the destroyed property where people can't return. So when we have an incomplete document, do not ask us to accept it and do not invite us to be honest. Let's first be honest and take everything equally into consideration, put all people in an equal position, so that there is, when we have such a complete document, then expect us to accept it. And I repeat, in this House, I have said countless times, we will never be a remethyling factor when, I repeat, when the rights of every man, regardless of his nationality, regardless of his party membership, regardless of the place of life, no matter what. But if you're just favoring one side, you'll never get support for it and don't blame anyone else. Let's go before we bring in such acts, before they come before us, to do everything in the authorities, to get a complete document, so that without any great debate we can give support to such acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25627	Sefer Halilović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25628	Mr. Chairman, I'm just going to replicate for a little while, I'm going to go over it, it's actually not a replica, it's just more of a commentary by my colleague Hadžiahmetović. Because, if we're going to speak honestly, we don't have today's report on the Council of Ministers' work, we have reports, summary reports from the Council of Ministers' ministries. And this material... this extensive material that we got, it was supposed to serve the chairman of the Council of Ministers and his deputies to make a correct report on the work of the Council of Ministers and to deliver it to this Parliament for discussion, adoption, refusal, etc. If you get in line with the ministry reports, then you'll see that the Foreign Affairs Commission has not accepted the Foreign Ministry's work report, and we have a similar situation in other ministries. Therefore, today's discussion is more of an attempt by the ruling coalition to save the Council of Ministers from what had to be done and not done, more of an attempt to throw dust in the eyes of the public and this Parliament, that the Council of Ministers has not responded, nor is it responding to the challenges of the time in which we live. First of all, the Council of Ministers has no response to a recession that has been around the world and has not bypassed BiH, and there could be another 10 strategic questions that the Council of Ministers has not answered, and there is nothing in the report on the work of the Council of Ministers last year, and there is nothing in the work plan for next year. The only reasonable thing that I should accept is that this report should return to the Council of Ministers, make a real report and then open a debate on the work of the Council of Ministers last year and plans for next year. 43 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25629	Thank you for your comment. Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25630	Well, it's not a replica. It's no longer a correction to Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25631	Correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25632	Apparently he was focused on part of the discussion, so he thought it was the contents of my discussion, which was just an example, Mr. Jovičić. I can give other examples if you want. Here, the laws that were coming, I accidentally mentioned the revised strategy that was here last time, we discussed, the chairman came, invited all of us to adopt it, unanimously adopted by the Council of Ministers. But you still have a lot of examples of the laws that are here. I just cited it as an example. So, don't use part of my discussion as an example that's listed that you have little adventure travel and spirit... your views in calls, especially when you, who lived in the space of today's Federation, and you live now in the RS, invite me to perhaps eventually protect someone here who comes from the RS, and you will protect the Bosniaks where I was born. I'm only saying this as one of these diagonals of your approach... I know that you have good intentions, but I want to tell you that we are not going into debates of this kind, because I did not have in my discussion the intention of focusing on anything, but on our honesty in order to improve the work of the Council of Ministers and to focus on the problem of not going to Parliament of something coming from the Council of Ministers, so I cited it as an example. But here, if you want, I can give you some other examples, really. Or to give an example, let's say, of the laws passed by this Parliament, for example, and from the Council of Ministers we get on paper that he is opposed to it. So somewhere we have a bullet between the two institutions that are burdening perhaps the work of both the Council of Ministers and this Parliament, etc. And what I'm saying is that we use the reports, maybe even a debate today, to overcome the barriers of that kind, no matter who they are or who they're addressed to. I think we've completely agreed, because I'm part of the discussion as well as you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25633	Niko Lozančić
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25634	Thank you, Mr. President. 44 Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, the distinguished guests, today, I hope I don't have to explain again what I've come up with, today we have the opportunity as many times but here today especially to discuss a very important matter, a matter that is essentially democracy, so I'm going to start with these definitions, I think we often forget them. From the constitutional provisions of BiH that say that BiH is a democratic state, unlike some in democratic states, there is a free democratically expressed will of citizens who choose their representatives in such institutions as our House of Representatives, and then we, who, which...that legitimacy we have received, choose executive levers that will realise our political will, well, these are the people who sit here. We expect them to carry out our political will and to realize everything that we, frankly or dishonestly, have promised to those who have allowed us to enter this Parliament, what we have taken over as a commitment and what we want, hopefully, to give some election cycle as a report on our work. We can today say to the calm souls that today, through a formal debate on the Council of Ministers' work report, we are discussing a report on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. It is by the rules that operate in such countries that want to be democratic countries. In democratic countries and parliament and the government functions exclusively on the basis of the constitution and the law. And in such countries, even the constitution and the law apply to them, even they have no right to behave outside the constitution and the law. We in this country have a Constitution, in this little booklet that many forget, written on only 22 pages, with a list of annexes, a total of 22 pages. Within this format, what is called the Council of Ministers has been situationed on a little over half of the page. That's true. And that's why we can all be right today, and we're all right today. Today, we have shown the unity of all our differences and similarities in our right and full capacity. If we listen to the debates, it's hard to recognize by the debates, no matter how they're represented, who's the opposition here today, who's the position, who's the one who gave this Council of Ministers the legitimacy, who didn't give it to him, so here and challenge him, thanks to our provisions that are such and that allow all of us to really, and when we act like that, we're all right. Today we need to talk about facts here. The Council of Ministers has shot this report to over 200, maybe 300 pages, let's say it's over 100 pages. From their powers contained here on half the pages, they wrote over 200 pages about what they were doing. And until this moment, not in any third, from any of my predecessors, I have not heard that what the Council of Ministers presented to us is incorrect. So they were doing something. I know it's most popular to get into the category of critics. Because watch out, civil society organization, citizens, wherever you meet a survey, you watch on television, etc., you will only hear: the government in this country is not good. I'm gonna take a little bit of a risk here, so I'm not gonna take all those grades. Because the government in this country is much wider than this Council of Ministers. Now, we need to demystify that. So we can't do this Council of Ministers, no matter what our wishes are, no matter what we like, if we do, but we have what we have. This Council of Ministers has its constitutional powers and responsibilities and we can and are entitled to assess its effects only from the point of view and from the position of its constitutional powers and responsibilities. 45 Today I have not heard a single debate, neither will I discuss it, concerning the Ministry of Defense, nor have I heard one debate. I suppose I am right now to tell you that we are all satisfied with the functioning of the Minister and the Ministry of Defence, because all constitutional powers here are concentrated, they are nowhere else. So now we can comment on whether they're doing well, I think they're doing well. If we enter a few other spheres, here are the finance and vault ministers and the overall composition of the Council of Ministers, and the most important document in each country is the country's budget, it defines the country's policies for a certain year. Are you suggesting a budget to us or is someone else doing it? Is there a government in the world that doesn't propose the budget of the parliament he has chosen? I don't think so. Now we're going to criticise you that the budget is like this, which is not developmental, which is not social, which is not about, etc. All that's good when people who listen to us don't know exactly... what the division of jurisdiction is, often we don't, because it's such a confusion in the division of jurisdiction that they really need to be an artist so they know who's responsible for everything in this country. When the Ministry of Finance and Treasury – so I'm going to be a little bit on the back of how we normally work, because the Minister of Treasury and Finance is from my party, and it's time to praise him, so we all work, so why don't I, but I won't bother others, that you know right now, so I'm only talking about how we operate – he negotiated over a billion credit marks to this country for development projects, not for consumption, not throwing down water, etc. but for development projects and now I would ask him, but I don't, as I know, talk to you every day, talk to you, talk about what his instruments are to ensure that there are a billion marks that are provided for the construction of the road on Corridor Vc are put into service as soon as possible. None. 'Cause there's a hundred of them in the chain that can make obstructions for him. When I tell him, I don't mean to him personally, but this country can make obstructions for those who don't execute expropriation, those who haven't made plans, those who, by the way, have a whole series that he doesn't have any influence on. He's poor enough to secure a billion marks at the time of the recession, at a time of financial crisis that, if happiness were in place yesterday, but I'm not sure he knows, and I especially don't know, when he'll be in office because of the way we operate. If I were to give up a little bit of this colossal and national, we would move on to a minister of civil affairs who is not from my party and is not from the people I belong to, we could ask him about all the shortcomings in this country's education system. But he'll answer us very simply that it's not exactly his jurisdiction and that there's going to be a class in some school that doesn't have much to do with him. There are some other ministers who are responsible, who employ educators there, who provide pay, etc. And he really has nothing to do with the acquisition of a single chalk still being used in our schools, at any school in BiH, but is responsible for the state of education. Minister of Security, here's to make that trolist, I can ask for a state of security, and we often question him here about the state of security in this country. However, we know that there are 14 police officers in this country over whom he has no authority. Not what he is, it doesn't matter who he is, until yesterday he was from my party minister, no intelligence. How can we ask a man to be responsible for something he doesn't manage and what this paper, this Constitution, these half pages in this book didn't give him competence, and we're not going to tell him what the real reasons are. Maybe the report on the work, a couple of colleagues that made it possible, was an opportunity for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers to say, maybe this is what I said, to say, "People, you expect us to do what is not our job." We respect your wishes, but we have constitutional limitations. We must learn to act according to the rules as written in the legal acts of this country. Maybe it was good for them to tell us what they're limited to. But is it fair again on the basis of those, calling for honesty, that we ask them, means by them, by the executive authorities 46 to criticise the existing system because in order to answer this question we would have to criticise an existing system in which they are only the executive authority. And, I'm sorry, it's little, it's not exactly appropriate for democracy for the executive authorities to criticise a system in which the executive authorities are. And we, who evaluate them, are the easiest to attack them, criticize them, and not worry, we won't replace you, so that's the only thing that we have, be careful, we have such a comedy, so we can criticize you to the unconscious, we can train each of us on you all forms of possible need to say that you're not working out, how ugly you are, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25635	Time, time! NO ONE
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25636	: and then leave you where you are again. I think it's incorrect, and I'll agree with anyone who's called for more honesty. And I'll invite you to coordinate wishes and possibilities. Me and the HDZ Club of BiH – because of the principle and because of what I think the Council of Ministers is in existing conditions and in the existing environment, which we are creating, has done as much as possible – I will support the Council of Ministers' report and call on all of you: let's make an ambience in which this Council of Ministers will be able to do much more and deliver much better reports in the coming period!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25637	Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25638	The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, I will try to focus exclusively on some, in my opinion, incontrovertible facts. First of all, it should be said that this Council of Ministers chose not only itself, this Council of Ministers has chosen the strongest parliamentary majority so far: of the 42 MPs in this House, 30 MPs, I think, and more, voted in favour of this Council of Ministers of BiH. This is done by the Council of Ministers under a specific programme framework because it was formed only after six political parties – SDA, SNSD, SBiH, two HDZ and PDP – were formed after signing the programme objectives, after which the Council of Ministers was formed with the task of achieving, among other things, these programme objectives. I expected in this report that the BiH Council of Ministers would look back on these programme objectives and tell us: This is what we did, we didn't do this. Since this is not in this report, the question should be asked: What about the specific programme objectives of the six ruling parties? More than two years ago, a new constitutional solution was promised – none of it currently. Reform of the public broadcasting system – nothing. The reduction of corruption in BiH -- of which none, we know what the reports show. Regulatory status of state property – nothing, etc. etc. So it would be good if we had a part in this report that would look back on these programming goals. I recall that in the opening exhibition, when he was elected BiH Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr Špirić said among other things that he would advocate that BiH will gain candidate status in the Eurointegration process, that good news will come from BiH as a country, that this Council of Ministers will work much faster than before, that BiH citizens will be proud of this country from which they come from etc., etc. Instead of such projections and promises, however, the situation is quite different. 47 This Council of Ministers is exhausting in many ways with some internal bickering and debates within the Council of Ministers than it is carrying out those really obligations on our path to the EU. It is no wonder, therefore, that this Council of Ministers of BiH, so I will try only to talk about some facts, has not realised 50% of the Work Programme adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers. So we have a markedly weak realization and what only the Council of Ministers is designing as its obligation. I must say, too, that when we observe the work of individual ministries, it is a frantic fact that more than half of the ministries have not realised 50% of their annual work programme. So, not the obligations that we have imposed in Parliament, or others, but which the ministers themselves, or the Council of Ministers, designed as their own obligation, are, in particular, in 2008. Of course, for such an effect in every EU country, the government or council of ministers would have a certain responsibility. First of all, because of the fact that only 46% realized their work programme. Unfortunately, there is no responsibility in BiH, so things like this can happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25639	Please, please, just a little patience. If we're going to leave the O.R., now all of a sudden six MPs are coming out, taking a break, we're going to lose the quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25640	As the Council of Ministers of BiH is working most relefically on the fact that the BiH Council of Ministers has not yet implemented its 2007 programme, so in this programme of the Council of Ministers for 2009, you have a mass of laws that should have been passed even in 2007, so we are terribly late. I'm here to say that we need to evaluate this Council of Ministers based on some real parameters. It is logical that we compare this to the Council of Ministers from the previous call. The Council of Ministers, therefore, passed, led by Mr Adnan Terzić, was very inefficient, slow, etc. However, this Council of Ministers lags on where and where, in relation to such a Council of Ministers of the Last Call. The past Council of Ministers passed 79 laws in the second year of office, and this is the Council of Ministers in the second year of the term of office of only 61 laws, although this has announced that it will be much faster, more efficient, etc. This Council of Ministers of BiH can be compared to our neighbours. Here's to starting with the nearest ones. In half a year, the government of the Republic of Serbia passed significantly more laws than the BiH Council of Ministers in one year, from July to December and January 2009. Although the government of the Republic of Serbia, now headed by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetković, had known problems in July and August 2008, and almost the country's state of emergency, but it also passed more laws in Serbia by 30% than the Council of Ministers in BiH. The government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Prime Minister Ivo Sanader passed 241 laws last year, of which 189 so-called. European laws relating directly to the harmonisation of certain things from the EU in the Republic of Croatia. This Council of Ministers, with this pace, cannot pass a law within four years as long as the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted everything in one year. I must also say that I am dissatisfied with the fact that this Council of Ministers last year, at least I didn't hear that, that it reacted to a very dangerous thing for the BiH state. 48 Several times, however, only here at Parliament's meetings raised the issue of abolishing the Bosnian prefix in certain BiH territory. I expected that when someone abolished the sacred name of BiH, the Council of Ministers of BiH had its position on it. Unfortunately, this Council of Ministers has not caught up with the strength, will or need to report on such an important issue. But to put it all aside, there's one other thing. In fact, this House of Representatives has almost unanimously reached dozens of conclusions, not only the opposition but also the position. And here's what the situation looks like: 146 conclusions of the Council of Ministers have not been realized, and this House of Representatives has adopted it. Now, that's no longer a question of position and opposition now, it's a matter of keeping the dignity of this house, it's a question of whether this parliament allows its conclusions to be demoted. If it wasn't an empty story, I've got exactly 146 conclusions here on the 45-page page, where exactly the session, the content, the proposer, and so on. And I will finally deliver these conclusions with my proposal for conclusions. I must also say that, as an MP, I would like to express, among other things, in this time that I have at my disposal my dissatisfaction with the fact that I have been looking for an answer for four months and I cannot get an answer: "How much has the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH spent money in this last year when the crisis has largely affected BiH to buy expensive cars?" I didn't get that answer as an MP, although according to the Rules of Procedure, I should have gotten that answer. Unfortunately,... we can't get any information from the Council of Ministers, but we got some information from the press. According to the latest published data in the press, the chairman of the Council of Ministers bought an Audi of 219 thousand KM, Minister Sredoje Nović LandRover of 136 thousand marks, Minister Tarik Sadović "Audi" 140 thousand marks, etc., etc. I don't know if it's the exact data, because as an MP, I didn't get an answer, but it says the press. Therefore, if the SDP had a majority here in Parliament, we would now propose a logical conclusion, that is to replace this Council of Ministers of BiH today. Since the SDP does not have that majority, I suggest five conclusions, and I consider five very constructive conclusions. 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the Council of Ministers to submit within 30 days a report to this House on the causes that year-on-year lead to an extremely low level of implementation of the planned activities of the BiH Council of Ministers, in particular the law. So let's see what the problem is, really. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is in charge of the College of the House of Representatives to report on the causes of non-functional co-operation between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH within 30 days. We need to know why so many laws come from the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25641	And you need to know that time is up, but there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25642	And I have three more conclusions. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to give them a brief explanation, if you don't mind. Thank you. I think he's also quite logical and will be supported by all his colleagues. 49 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives expressed dissatisfaction with the fact that the BiH Council of Ministers has not realised 146 conclusions of this house, and therefore asks the Council of Ministers to approach the implementation of them as soon as possible. 4. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives concludes, due to the inadmissible poor implementation of planned activities and failures to fulfil the obligations and tasks foreseen in the Council of Ministers' Annual Work Programme, that it will launch a procedure for the Council of Ministers' replacement by 30 January 2010 at the latest in case the Council of Ministers fails to implement its own work programme in 2009. And the fifth conclusion, last one: 5. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly representative's House of Representatives is forming a special investigative committee representing one representative from each political party in this house, with the aim of examining and delivering within 45 days a report containing data on all cars purchased by the BiH Council of Ministers' General Secretariat from 15 April 2008 to 15 April 2009, with the exact prices of these cars, the way cars are purchased and the justification of car purchase. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25643	Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25644	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25645	I'm sorry, Mr. Križanović, I didn't see it. Mr. Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25646	I didn't see him either when I was standing up, it wasn't a replica. I'd beg my colleague to wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25647	Hold on, sir. Here you go, Mr. Križanović, you have 15 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25648	15 minutes, thank you very much. I'll have to disappoint you. I'll only speak for five minutes. It is good, then, that today the House of Representatives is beginning to implement its legal and business provision to consider the annual reports of the Council of Ministers. I think it's very important and it's a good opportunity to perform a summary of the situation in the country in a unique way. To see all the problems in the country that stand in the way of the country's reforms and progress, and to try accordingly to find solutions to these problems. Now, you see, the question is, do we today, based on such 50 reports, have we been able to evaluate and search for a solution like this? As you know, there is a Council of Ministers Act and there is a Ministry Act. And we have a report on the work of the Council of Ministers on the agenda. And, you see, in that report, I don't know how many, (here's a few bids), how many pages there are, this huge report, the Council of Ministers' report on the work, is an introduction, you know, introduction, and the rest of the Council of Ministers' work. So either we are not acting in accordance with the agenda item addressed today or should be extended, so we are considering a report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers and ministries. Of course, I disagree that we should consider individual ministry reports. I would ask that no one be found offended, but this introductory part relating to the Council of Ministers could have been drawn up by a gymnast based on the minutes of the Council of Ministers meetings, because these are acts on the number of sessions held, agenda points, proposed and adopted laws, regulations, etc., etc. So, in order for a report to be evaluated and to win the one, let me say, the goal and the result that it should have, it is necessary to highlight what was the objective of the work and what were the objectives of the work in the last year, which were the plans, which were the policies which were the conduct of the work and what was achieved. Unfortunately, we have nothing in the report, and then there will be a people's wisdom that says, 'If you don't know where you're going, then every time they take you there.' So this report could have been different, so it's the same, so we have the report as it is, because we don't have any rappers that can judge whether it's good or not. Here's your example today. Three draft laws will be held on the agenda of this session; for one is the proposal of the Council of Ministers, for the other two are colleagues from Parliament. And they are somehow connected, and on that point, the Council of Ministers has no position, neither do we, we'll put them on the agenda and see what happens. So, what am I saying? It doesn't matter what happened last year, but let's see what we do in this year. We do not have this year's situation, let's say, the Council of Ministers should come up with some programme of measures and say that this proposal on excise duties stands, how it is imported and relied on this proposal on VAT, both on wages and beyond this proposal, etc. So, unfortunately, the problem of this country is that we do not have clear policies, clear goals on the essential problems of this country and, not only to be focused on one address, I fully agree with my colleagues, and I have said several times, that this is a complete picture of this Parliament. And maybe even more responsibility is here. For this reason, in order not to owe, I promised to speak very briefly, by the way, just to tell my colleague Lozančić in the context of this Parliament's responsibility for this. We must be very determined, but correct and productive critics. I'm not a critic, but I am a critic who will contribute to a change of condition. And if we behave, and we don't rescind, we scream, and then we say we move on, as if nothing had happened, and that this would make sense, and this debate, and to get some possible result, I don't have a concrete or precise conclusion, but I would suggest that as soon as possible an objective assessment of the situation, the causes of the blockades that stand in the way of work and of the Council of Ministers and of this Parliament and, in that sense, try to seek solutions for their overcoming. I think that... today we're going to spend a lot of time and eventually we're going to stay as usual when criticalally considering such and similar materials in the same positions as if nothing happened. Thank you very much. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25649	Thank you. We now have two replicas, first, honourable MP Drago Kalabić, then Mr. Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25650	Thank you, Chairman. Very briefly, although we tried to pass this all without replication and not to slow down the right to discussions and different assessments we are trying to track as much as possible who has in some discussions of principle, I am sorry that I did not respond to any discussions that I followed, because the context of the criticism of this Council of Ministers has been placed in the Swedish political environment, especially when my colleague Džaferović spoke so when he said that this Council of Ministers is in a Swedish environment and it is only controversial, everything else is ideal. But in the context of the story in which my colleague Bećirović spoke, I have only one question, and later in the discussion, since those who have been here: Is my information true that one former chairman of the Council of Ministers with the initials of L., a member of the then ruling, and today the opposition parties, fled with their heads regardless of this parliament, leaving both the report and the conclusions and everything else, and that it was the only failure and an attempt to reach the Council of Ministers' chairman's report? And then: Is this Council of Ministers that participates in the debate in this way better, or is better, one who has not even tolerated and treated the reports in this way, and then had the opportunity to do all that is said to be done today by the Council of Ministers. I'd like someone who's been here longer if he has a chance to confirm or deny this, maybe it's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25651	Thank you. Second Deputy Chairman, Mr. Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25652	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't mean it, but since I was named, otherwise I thought I'd stick to the fact that everyone has the right to say, is, no matter how accurate, exactly, etc. But calling on us to be critics, not critics, then getting into that kind of thing, isn't exactly principled. I'm gonna take this opportunity, even though I didn't mean it so I could just say it. Mr Bećirović compared our effectiveness, looking at the aspect of the number of laws adopted here in Parliament, which was established by the Council of Ministers, compared us with our neighbouring countries, with the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. If I registered correctly, I registered this larger number, the smaller one I did not want, 220 laws were passed in the Republic of Croatia. Here, I'll tell you this by heart, and check it out. 420 laws were passed in this country last year. Now, what difference does it make? The important difference between this country and that over there is that there's only one Parliament bringing laws, and here it brings 13 or 14 parliaments. And 13, 14 52 has jurisdiction over different areas, which is why he makes laws. So we don't have the capacity here to say that what you, a respected colleague of Križanović, could expect a summary of the situation in the country. This Council of Ministers doesn't have that jurisdiction. And, come on, if we had to, we have to respect that, it's not their fault they don't have them. Let's give them jurisdiction. So, the essence of the problem is to remove the debate and tell us where the problems are. No need for discussion, the BiH Constitution is why we have the capacity of this Council of Ministers as we have. Here, we'll have a chance these days to see if we can change that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25653	Azra Hadžiahmetović. Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25654	Replica, replica, i.e. correcting the wrong quote or providing an adequate answer to the asked question.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25655	Correction of the wrong quote and providing an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25656	It is not true that the Council of Ministers' report chaired by L. in which I, H., was rejected, was rejected in Parliament, not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25657	Let's go back to the board for discussion and work out a way. There are, please, just one moment, we have two, four, six, seven and more people reported. Of course, I expect replicas. It's 13:30, we'll be working till 2:30 and we'll take a break. Bakir Izetbegović. Kalabić, replica. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25658	What I'll do when I have to. I want to correct the wrong assumption. My colleague, I didn't say the report was rejected. I said L. ran off with his head regardless of Parliament, I don't know the fate of the report. I have this information. And... what is the fate of the report? Well, it is, and no reports and, as far as I know, no coat. What the fate of the report is, and about this refusal and non-refoulement, I didn't talk about it. I didn't say yes or no, it wasn't rejected.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25659	Here, we heard K. Azra Hadžiahmetović. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25660	Well, here we go again. The chairman of the L. did not run away with his head, given the fact that he did not, regardless of Parliament. Especially not when there was a debate on the Council of Ministers' work report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25661	Let's get back to work, please. Bakir Izetbegović. I hope so now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25662	So, almost everything's been said, I'll make sure I don't repeat myself. So, this Council of Ministers composition I think he did a good piece of work, a good job that he did. Also, the fact that almost so much of the work he was planning to do, which he was supposed to do, he didn't do. In December of last year, there was an intensification of the work of the Council of Ministers, so many agenda points in a drawer held in December's four-session Council of Ministers, so nearly a hundred points of the agenda were launched. Now, on that same Council of Ministers, many of them were shot down, and then rejected, and what went through here towards Parliament was also welcomed here in Parliament, so down. And don't think of this as some sort of transfer of the ball to someone and some desire to argue here for the hundredth time about entity voting, entities, etc. But we simply can't help but notice a physionomy that has become clear, one by ourselves, harmful and irrational obstructions. Because it damages, I mean, 99% of citizens no matter where they live or what entity. I've lived to wait a few days for my colleague Lozančić, he's not here, but I'm still going to say, one discussion I've been waiting for for 10, 15 years. Well, I don't see any reason why we've been waiting for another 10, 15 years to figure things out. The reforms were good for everyone in this country that we did, and many of us resisted. And here we are now supposed to do even though these reforms are on the European path, every citizen in this country needs a visa-free regime, you need IPA funds, you need one relaxation and security for the future, etc. I don't see, I don't see why these laws were treated like this without which there is no accelerated European path and path to NATO alliance. Still waiting in the Council of Ministers in drawers for 115 agenda points, 30 of which were proposed in 2008. They've been waiting for appointments in important directors, some directors of directors and administrations, some of them for years. Corridor Vc? I think something's finally going on and something's going on with Corridor Vc, but the first mile of highway that's going to be financed from the state level is probably only gonna be there in 2010, so about 14 years after Dayton. I don't think this was supposed to go this slow. It has slowed down, as I said, the path to the European Partnership, towards NATO. Public TV system? I think the Council of Ministers could've helped us get this thing over with, that commitment from Dayton finally came to an end. And then the measures not related to 2008, but they were adopted in 2009, but they are very important, and I see some indecision and slowness in them. There are 16 measures that need to mitigate the effects of recession, the global economic crisis, where I don't see it working fast enough, interest is growing despite the fact that the euro-libor is falling, there are no such guarantee funds. I think it could work faster and better, and then a sustainable return and the loan we talked about. Here's 54 I think it's been two months since that conclusion was made, and I wouldn't say that something concrete has happened here, and without that, there won't be a list of many other things. So, we'll offer, the SDA will offer some, I think, acceptable conclusions that should help the Council of Ministers speed up work. They will primarily refer to the European path, to the creation of a precise action plan to meet the obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, then to the creation of a BiH integration programme in the EU, to meet the remaining obligations for visa liberalisation, to NATO, to these 16 measures I spoke of, to this return credit. And I think that we should at least twice in this year sit down and see, do one again... cut state, because a lot of things should end up in July right now from visa liberalisation, until then we should know what's going on with the excises, so whether the Corridor Vc is going on, we should also know what's going on with that sustainable return loan. So I suggest adopting conclusions, and then making a cut to see how far it came in July and December of this year. The SDA will soon submit written conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25663	Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25664	Thank you, Chairman. First, I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Azra for this recipe for the Bosnian pot I got. However, I must say that this is not about the culinary but about the nutritional misunderstanding and the way it approaches to eating this pot and those who first approach take the meat and, you know, the meat is growing much more and more, as the state does, and the cabbage and other ingredients are land-based, as entities do. So, the problem is nutrition, not culinary. And, if we're going to watch this report today on the work of the Council of Ministers, we need to look at a few things that I think are global in terms of seeing that the individual political capacity of the people sitting in the Council of Ministers, taking into account the obligations and obligations imposed by BiH on the path to Euro-Atlantic integration, and the atmosphere in the economic, political sense in BiH in which this Council of Ministers and we as part of a single system, their overall work, and here we are talking about the Council of Ministers' report on Labour - certainly deserved a passing assessment. At the same time, if we go into the system and study or analyze each ministry, it seems to me that here we should go towards positive criticism in order to improve the work of each individual ministry, i.e. the Council of Ministers as a whole. I understand the opposition to put an end to political matters concerning the work of the Council of Ministers, but we, who support this Council of Ministers and from our parties are in this Council of Ministers, should, with these positive criticisms and suggestions, try to improve the work of this Council of Ministers. I think it can be done in at least two ways, or three ways: one way is to reconstruct this Council of Ministers and I think we have one item on the agenda today. Because it's unacceptable for someone who wants to be the Council of Ministers to do opposition work and sit on the Council of Ministers. At the same time, improving the work of the Council of Ministers is conditioned, as you said, by the State Service Act. We in the College, the three of us in the College, have proposed amendments to the State Service Act. We felt that the positions of assistants, the inherited positions of assistants to everyone in the ministry, ministers in particular, had a certain limiting factor and that the law should be amended. You all know that this law 55 is imposed and that it is not ideal and the principle on which it is set is not in line with the spirit of BiH. But I think it would be both if we worked together to help the Council of Ministers. Finally, and by adopting this parliament, Mr Genjac said, how many conclusions (I disagree with the number, I checked later, but I do not want to go into this debate), but we have witnessed that we have here on a daily basis at every point in the agenda the mass of conclusions adopted which, I think, have been inconclusive many times. And of course, the Council of Ministers itself can help itself, self-help itself to better co-ordination in the Council of Ministers itself, better coordination with entities if there is any will and desire of entities to co-operate with the Council of Ministers. And it seems to me that here the Council of Ministers was supposed to answer three key things, which is: - Does the Council of Ministers have the capacity in the organisational sense to implement reforms? - Does he think the Constitution is that brake, if he thinks he doesn't have the capacity? - And what can Parliament do to help? The discussions that were being discussed here, the obstructions and others, I think is one correct position: that BiH can be made as a decentralised country in the principle of clean accounts, because I think only consensus, agreement and a positive interest has a future that lasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25665	Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25666	Thank you. I will also say that I am glad that this report on the work of the Council of Ministers has come today. I will have, of course, positive and negative some of my observations on the work of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25667	Please, we'll lose the quorum. Please, we're running out of quorum!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25668	But given the environment in which the Council of Ministers works, I don't think it can be done anymore, we can't make any difference between Parliament and the Council of Ministers. In my opinion, this is what kind of nation such as Parliament and the Council of Ministers. So we're here to work. To me... if it was 39 regular sessions, and Parliament here had 51 sessions. So it would make sense to me that the Council of Ministers was 51, and we were 39. So this is also the final report in a year or two. When successes are made, I think that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is, in my opinion, the best thing that the Council of Ministers is with us, which has been adopted in this House. We know... that this has brought us security, ambience, talk about visa relief, access to funds and a lot of things, so I think that's one very... As chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, I would also like to highlight the Fiscal Cash Act, the Fiscal Council. You know how long we've been waiting. I think it's one missing body in this country, especially about running a macroeconomic policy in the country. Although we know that they have only a co-ordinated role, but I am looking forward to the last session of the Fiscal Council that they could... discuss both recession, crisis, consumption measures. And my advice is and I think all of us are going towards lower levels, from municipalities, cantons, entities, states, to reduce that consumption at all levels, and wages and costs, as much revenue as can be collected and spent. I also look forward to the fact that the Public Procurement Act is also a public procurement law, and I call on my colleagues, and this is the Council of Ministers, that this law (in the procedure is phase two) is also to adopt it. He's very, very, very bad, and very, very bad. All those who meet in the field with him have observations on him. Publicly speaking, when it comes to public procurement, it is immediately the perception of corruption! Huge financial resources are frozen because of this law. This one has a lot of improvements, and I think we should adopt that. The law on salaries and fees in BiH institutions has also resolved many things and introduced them into the system. Now, the question now is because of this recession, no one planned, we're here to see. The fiscal register law also, here at the House of Peoples is waiting, the same very important law preventing a grey economy from increasing income. Unfortunately, "The Guarantee Fund Act" was with us, it did not pass, or in Parliament, it is known, and "The Financial Lissing Act", which is not good. I'll commend the Council of Ministers. From the review report in all state institutions, you know that the Finance and Budget Commission is dealing with this very well, it certainly has a positive trend; in 2007, there were five positive ones, now there are 11 positive ones. There's movement everywhere. The highest shortcomings are mainly in the non-compliance with the Public Procurement Act, of 57, 38, and the misplanned budget, and we know that they freeze huge funds, and these funds should certainly be operational. It therefore takes this Law on Public Procurement, and it looks forward to me and the College is involved to find itself, to agree that this law will receive support here in Parliament. In particular, such significant progress in NATO's alliance: it has met 85%. That's very positive. Without this security, there is neither economic nor legal certainty, and this entails investment, investment and everything else. I didn't, for example. pleased here,... I have asked as an MP a question and colleague Jovičić: recession, economic crisis, effects on the BiH economy and overcoming measures. In my opinion, the Council of Ministers has done nothing so far. The central bank is the only one who's done it, she's made two moves, and she's right. Whatever happened to them, they did. They have reduced the reserve obligations, so they have regained the trust of the savings and increased the basic deposit and it needs to be increased further. The Council of Ministers has brought in a package, however, nothing yet is realised on the ground and I believe that this field must work faster, work so as not to be found. I am also not satisfied with the Council of Ministers' relationship with the Public TV Service. There's got to be more. We still need a public service. There's a service on TV. You know about satellites as far as it was, I understand and the law, I understand everything, but they have conclusions on Parliament, and there must be more to be done. My colleagues said Corridor Vc. Also, we have a lot of investments where there are no executives or appointments yet. I think it is a political problem, but it has to be done more, that it's very important for us institutions to get their leaders. 57 An MP's question is mine, and here's a colleague of Jovičić? We haven't got that yet,...so we don't have the materials prepared to hold a plenary session here around recession and crisis. That's what we're waiting for, that's what we'll always remind ourselves of, I think Parliament's in it because on the ground they ask us, we're the most responsible there on the ground, and we're going to end up invoiced. Let's see what can be done, especially when it comes to banks, the banking system; they're totally dispersed, they're not in the business development function, unfortunately, they're taking a little profit, they're out, they're increasing interest rates. As interest declines everywhere, even in the surrounding countries, we grow. It's supposed to be a little bit more energetic around here. And from now on,... there has been little discussion, I will say that I am not a lawyer or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but in my opinion, and the Council of Ministers and this ministry on the international agenda has done a lot and is working very hard to promote the state of BiH. We know about... the agreement that this is the ministry, we know in fact, and negotiations for the visa-free regime began, intensive dialogue for NATO, numerous donations for our economy, even for BiH, there were 500,000 marks from Japan, protecting property in Belgrade. Many things this year and this ministry... has submitted a request for admission to... that I have received an invitation with an EU candidate to become a non-permanent member of the Security Council, working hard on liberalisation and I believe that this ministry, in my opinion, is doing as much as it can. On the international side, I think they've done a lot, especially on visa relief issues. I come from Krajina, we Krajina are the largest diaspora, unfortunately. The past system kicked us out there, we had no business in BiH, so we're working outside. And everyone, believe me, the most questions on the ground are those visa reliefs to get people, they have families (Austria, Switzerland, Germany) so if they have to go over the weekend, they work black to earn money to feed their family. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25669	Sead Jamakosmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25670	Mr. Chairman's respect, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, all the discussions we have heard on this agenda point suggest that the Council of Ministers is working on the basis of the radical solutions offered by the BiH Constitution and that they are getting along as well as possible. This report bears the name 'The Report' and does not speak of reports. So it gathered several or a number of reports from the Ministers' Council of Resolutions, which did not mention in any of their reports that the Constitution restricts them from doing something they might do and I think we should do it. This or this report... lacks a report from the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers who, in my view, should unite everything he or she manages and which the chairman told them in her reports to present in this Parliament the problems he is facing, including those constitutional shortcomings that make it impossible for them to work... more qualitatively. It is this, that this should not be a debate about the shortcomings offered by the Constitution, or which, on the basis of the Constitution or because of the Constitution, cannot be implemented, but here these discussions today were in this direction to say from those competences that stand, what has not been done and could have been done. What I want to say today is that the latest situation on the operations of banks in BiH, banks that are the banks of some developed banks in the EU or from the West, is not regulated, that is, there is no maximum interest that these banks can spend or take in BiH, 58 so it is unlimited and we have witnessed that it has risen to 12% and 13% again, while in the EU we have interest rates of 1% for the economy up to 3% for the citizens and what is the essence of my total story today is that more people in BiH and there are very many, very many families in the countries of Western Europe, raising loans from 1% to 3% interest in developed countries, re-extracting money in another way, so that here we can pay mortgages that interest now is raised to 3% or even to get to cheaper money. I think this is a direct question to the Council of Ministers that those in this situation in which the state and this way in which the money spills will become even poorer, and we all popcorn who are not dear to anyone, because the poor are not really going to be. If it cannot be done quickly, then it should be done, then it should be said why it cannot be done to put it into legal control in order to preserve as much economic value or economic value as we have in BiH and can work further to ultimately preserve our dignity as individuals and society and state and this Parliament, in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25671	Branko Dokić, is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25672	Yes, Mr. Chairman, at the last discussion and even more discussion. My replica refers to the part where MPs try to justify or attack the Council of Ministers for their ability or inability and limitations of the Constitution. Gentlemen of the Parliament... The Council of Ministers and this is not only this Council of Ministers, but all the Council of Ministers' meetings had the same constitution. We MPs have chosen this Council of Ministers towards the existing Constitution. So the Constitution must be neither justifiable nor, as I say, an accusing factor for their work or dissatisfaction. I don't want to talk about it. And it is not correct in the context of this story to tell and open the story of the Constitution. We'll open the story of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25673	Replica, Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25674	Thank you. I could agree with you, dear colleague, if we were not to make demands to the Council of Ministers who are not in accordance with the current Constitution. So, then I could agree. But we, when we discuss the work or the failure of the Council of Ministers, then we expect them to secure bigger pensions, then we expect them to solve health care and primary and secondary protection, etc. But they don't have the capacity, we didn't give them. And then it's not correct, so in public it's a picture that this is what the Council of Ministers doesn't want, I don't want to be a Council of Ministers' lawyer, but I don't want to accept that we're accusing them because they don't have a constitutional framework. The number of laws some other parliaments have passed, in which only one parliament passed the law, you know. I mean, that's incorrect. It's misinformation to the public. So, I don't want to defend the Council of Ministers, and I'm convinced that even within the existing constitutional framework, more can be done, but we have a total environment that we all produce, which limits the extreme reach of the Council of 59 ministers. And in my opinion, I must say the key limiting factor for the more successful work of any council of ministers is its constitutional powers and competences.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25675	Okay. So it's open at first about the Constitution, Mr. Dokić. Now, here you go, Mirjana Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25676	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I really had no intention of putting this debate on such serious things, and that's why I came to the line. I think it might be a bit constructive, but the replica is bound to these dilemmas: whether our Council of Ministers has the capacity or not, based on the Constitution. A moment ago it was spoken figuratively, of course, and an example of a Bosnian pot. Let me tell you what I think I'm gonna do in terms of the association that's about my profession. In fact, the human organism is made of different kinds of tissue. Some of these tissues are embedded, bound to certain defined anatomic organs, and some of these tissues make functional organs. What happens to the organism when some tissue becomes independent? Unfortunately, the laymen know that. Then they become diseases that are most often incompatible with life. Our perception of constitutional competences is more about political perception than real interpretations, and I think a lot of things could be solved so that at least we allow the Council of Ministers to be who it is and how it is defined by the Constitution as the ultimate law of our country... to be allowed to be a functioning organ, if he can't already be independent. There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25677	It wasn't my ambition to distract you, I just announced a debate about the Constitution. Here you go, Mr. Denise.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25678	I hope I'm not...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25679	No, no, the debate is about the Constitution. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25680	My replica refers to Mr. Lozančić's presentation, which he had just directly replicated to me, now and fellow Dokić, in which he speaks about whether the Council of Ministers has certain constitutional powers to fulfil certain tasks and objectives. I would just like to say briefly: this Council of Ministers does not require this Parliamentary Assembly to violate the BiH Constitution, but this Council of Ministers can and should implement its annual 60 programme of work adopted unanimously at their first session, I suppose, in January of the current year, if not before. ... So it has nothing to do with the Constitution. They adopt the annual work programme and then implement the work programme with less than 50% of what they have drawn and projected. Now, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25681	Let me remind you that the existing Constitution also has a model that allows through coordination that, of course, some things are being initiated and that some things are being resolved at the state level. But here we go back to the debaters. Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25682	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to talk to you briefly on this subject because I don't know which one I'm in a row of debates, and there's a lot of things that's been said. However, I do not think that two, in my opinion, things are mentioned in the way that they should be mentioned here at this moment, in order to have one better picture of the work of the Council of Ministers and of the work of Parliament in which I am sitting, means the House of Representatives. So, we didn't do, in a way, one combination of what the Council of Ministers did, what was ultimately realized here and who were brakers on both sides. So here I want to say a few words about this political subject too, is it, which was active here in Parliament and has prevented some things that when we speak, here we are talking about the Council of Ministers as his work, tomorrow talking about Parliament as his work, when we talk about Parliament and appreciate its work, we need to know who the brakes were on the left and right to not be fulfilled at the end of the day... the tasks set out, that is, the tasks from which these tasks have arisen. We can talk here today in a number of ways, but here we are criticising, let's say, the Council of Ministers on the back of the structure and implementation of the Budget, unfortunately, we can't, and that's what would be the most real thing for me to talk about today, because Budget is the highest legal act to be passed over one year, it's being implemented, and now we should talk about realisation. Here, at this point in time because of the constitutional structure, we can't speak that way. We can talk about the activities or inactivity of the Council of Ministers in those obligations that it was supposed to have in some capacity to work in last year. So, we can talk about realising the priorities of the European Partnership, the obligations of the Stabilisation Agreement, the requirements of the Roadmap, and it is the chairman of its presentation and specified that these three items were, let's say, in the focus of the Council of Ministers' interest. I disagree here with part of the speaker and the way this report is presented. I think one table display should be, in any case, I don't know how he'd do it any other way. But we may not have had one complete picture when it comes to this table view across all ministries, planned and unrealised activities, and we might be talking in a different way today. So, in any case, I don't want to be the Council of Ministers' lawyer, they know how to do it. I'll say, I won't talk about these things that haven't been done. But here, I say, I base my story on these three very important acts, when it comes to the European path of BiH and its strengthening, in the end, in this way. 61 I, looking at at least a tabular display of those ministry ministers who have thus shown their work, see that there are many adopted legal solutions that are now waiting here for realisation, means here in Parliament. So we're the ones who need to conclude this Council of Ministers activity, and we haven't concluded it. And here I think we should talk politics then. I will say that it may have passed on to the Council of Ministers because it should have been made at one point as a passing... that it is not under the glass of an international factor and then it was welcomed to have this solution here in Parliament and stopped. Or vice versa. So, I'm not just criticizing them, but I'm saying that mostly SNSD colleagues are, I mean, well-intentioned to accept my discussion, they've braked these constitutional solutions, legislative solutions. So, we here already have several Parliament meetings, we have a draft law on border control, and I'm not talking about a series of other legal solutions, but here we never have enough hands or courage or to say: we're going to pass this border control law, so this visa-free regime is going to be, visa liberalisation is going to be closer to BiH, we're going to meet another condition from the map of the road, and it just stops us. And now, here when we talk, we're mostly talking about whether it's done enough by the Council of Ministers, but let's forget what we're supposed to do as our own obligation to do and thus improve our full work and push this Bosnian-Herzegovina car faster towards Europe and thus help the citizens of BiH and have a visa-free regime, but in the next point we're going to talk about a visa-free regime and not in that part, so we have a series of these legal solutions that have gone somewhere in the way. I'm here, here I mentioned visa liberalisation, so 60 per cent, in my opinion, up to 70 per cent of these obligations is at the Ministry of Security. The Department of Security's legal acts, I've done a little numerically, brought about 80 percent. And now that's standing here, for example, etc. So, speaking completely of the work of the Council of Ministers, we need to look at our activity in that section to have some objective image if we want to give it that way, otherwise it will always be subjective, and I don't think it's good. Here, not to repeat other debaters, means about other legal solutions that we have in the procedure, but today I would take another chance to think that it will be one of the conclusions of the SDA Club, but Mr Izetbegović has already announced this: we must have one thematic session when it comes to the problem of recession, its reflection on the situation in BiH and, on the other hand, in my view, the Council of Ministers has now as directly competent in resolving this problem has not responded to its obligation. I would like us to have it on paper here as quickly as possible, to discuss the subject, to face our opinions, to express some of our views as well as how we can easily interpret it through this period that is ahead of us, and who, surely, will already feel these consequences, to be present in BiH, and to respond in this way to our obligation. And let me just say, we are a little bit, not today, but in the work of this legislative body, when it comes to the responsibility of this legislative body, we feel one subordinated role towards the Council of Ministers and I think we truly need to take that stick of responsibility as a legislative body in the state of BiH, but then we have real, objective arches, not to bring it all down to some subjectivism and then it can lead us to another situation in which we will only create certain barriers, walls between the Council of Ministers, between Parliament, between political entities, and that is not our goal. Our goal is to open this space, our goal is to tell stories, compromise and a certain legal so, in the end, if Bog does, and a constitutional solution that will strengthen BiH and bring us closer to this European path. So much, Chairman, thank you. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25683	Predicted time? Replica small, Živković, at least that's what he says.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25684	A small and well-intentioned replica of the esteemed colleague Sokolović. You see, you called the SNSD MPs that they broke some laws here, and in fact it was just the logical end of a mishandled procedure. From March 2008 to December 29, 2008, 13 laws from the Council of Ministers came to this parliament, revoted by all ministers coming from the order of the Serb people. How did you think these legal projects would end here in Parliament? I therefore said that the Council of Ministers must and should try to reach maximum compromise and agreement within the Council of Ministers. And whether the Constitution is an obstacle or the institutions that we or the High Representative or ourselves have made in BiH, and they obviously, some of them, do not function in the way we imagined it, and we do not want to talk about whether these institutions should be reformed and certain competencies returned. When the strength comes to BiH to think sincerely about the two-way process, restoring competence to entities for institutions that do not function, then we will certainly... take a closer look at the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25685	There, there's no baby, it's grown a little bit. It could produce 50 replicas but we'll hold back in this story. Come on, Hadži Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25686	Thank you, Chairman. I think a lot has been said about this Council of Ministers report in so far's discussions. We can simply say, as some colleagues have said, that this is a summary report by the ministers, not a report by the Council of Ministers. However we will, one or the other, here the question is eventually asked: What will we end up getting after these discussions if we vote for this report or if we do not vote for this report? Personally, I don't think we're going to do anything unless something changes in the work of the Council of Ministers, if something doesn't change with regard to politics and political structures, those who gave their candidates to the Council of Ministers. I think it'll stay the same. What is, let's say, commendation, about the Council of Ministers and what puts first is the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. That is true, but at the same time we must keep in mind, and this is what the Council of Ministers should have in mind: this success of signing was at the same time brought about by what is happening to us today in BiH, when it comes to the consequences of this agreement produced by the economy itself because of one inactivity or, I don't know, one action that the Council of Ministers needed to launch, to stop something that is happening to us today, which is the fall of the economy, the closure of jobs, the closure of business entities. And here we are witnessing that today absolutely nothing is working on it. 63 I am sure that this report or a collection of these reports was not written in December and was not written in November that it was written in January and February, and that they had an insight into what is happening to us in January and February, when it comes to the market, when it comes to our economy. Because we've seen information coming at the end of the press from the Council of Ministers that this recession, this global crisis, will bring nothing bad for BiH. And today we all just see what's happening to us, and I think it's going to be far, far worse in the year and at the end of the year itself. Then it will be just too late for the measures that we should have thought about simply doing to protect our economy. If it's true by some findings that in the first few months, here's just some of the items I've heard, that we already have a deficit from CEFTA countries somewhere around 500 million euros, I can't imagine that the gentlemen didn't find fit to say in this report: we should have done this in the previous year, we didn't, we didn't get a good estimate, but here we plan at least now. Because indeed, what has been done has been done, and nothing can be said, what the ministers could do, they have done maximum of themselves. But this is worrying to see the deficit come true, to close jobs. So here you go, yesterday I had a chance here in Sarajevo, last year you could see a lot of shops back there behind Miljak, all the shops were open, now you see a lot of shops that are closed. It's not just Sarajevo, it's every city in BiH. Doesn't any minister from the Council of Ministers who passes through the city worry about such a case? Or I have a feeling that we're just here just taking care of ourselves and taking care of our own personal future where we're going to build, just so we don't build in this country. And that in this country it's only going well for people who build a future for their children in the environment. There are three people here. And I think this policy is ruled by these people. And it is no wonder that this country is in this state, when these people build their children's future -- both a Srbin and a Hrvat, and a Bošnjak -- but it is worrying that people are simply silent in this House, watching it all go simply. And it will lead us to one condition, at least, because we look at it that way. So, let's just say in one article: it's incomprehensible to import 15 million, when it comes to the value of water, here's to say from Croatia, and to export to that country 2 million! And we have water production factories. What did the Council of Ministers do to get Vitinka from Zvornik working without her closing that factory. She shut down, fired the workers, this "Vivia" we drink, doesn't work. And that doesn't concern the Council of Ministers. I'm not saying this as an opposition or as a positioner, but I'm talking about what's really happening, about what's going on and what's worrying about people isn't worrying, and they're sitting in those positions, at the very least. If there's nothing he can do, all we have to do is leave and nobody here needs to force anyone. It's just one article. If I'm not saying we can import, we're rich with forests, we're going to import cheaper wood from our environment than we can do here. Didn't anyone wonder what we should do to make it a cheaper product here than a product from Serbia, Croatia and, I don't know, bring it from another country. That's what worries me, which at least at the end of this report, the kind of fact that it was last year, we didn't admit that we didn't do it, but this year we have to do it, and we should have done it by now. Next, just one more thing. Here's what I'll say about the law when it's spoken. Laws that are essential to be passed: police reform law, public procurement law, civil aviation, etc. I'll look back on this law on public procurement. One of the 64 colleagues said that this law we now have here in the second reading that it's good and it's better than the previous law. God Bog, if we keep bringing and changing and making new laws like that, I think it's gonna take us 100 years to get to the right law. I'm not able to influence that law to be corrected but the majority are able, because I think right now she's the only one who's been formed to sit down and agree and make such a change that this law is so simple and to prevent the possibility of bribery and corruption, what's happening to us. I, in this law, see as before the possibility of corruption and see that it is simply proposed by people who, when they leave a position, see themselves tomorrow in some commissions there that tomorrow, not to say, they can blackmail, etc. It happens to us, it happens to us simply to the eyes of such things. Still, I think I'm saying again, the only majority that's possible here I don't think anyone else can be made, that they've made good programming goals. And when we talk about reform, I think all we need to see here is what the brakes on all these reforms that we're talking about are opening our way to Europe. They're opening the way to Europe. I mean, sometimes we have to imagine what they're going to do when they open the way for us, what we're going to get in all of this. But here's the key, which is the key to all reforms. Here is one of these goals, he says, in my view, when I look at it like this, 'to bring constitutional solutions that will establish a functional and modern BiH with European standards'. But when I get confused here in this House, I can think about what happens to people in the field when they hear that kind of information. Here's my colleague Raguž proposed last session, I don't know, here to form a commission around this change of constitution, etc. I personally think it should be done and that it is the key to other reforms. And that there should be fought for its rights both entities and RS and all those who think BiH should look like. And that's the key to seeing exactly what it looks like. Because the way we go, the change, says the amendment to the Constitution, it's not the amendment, we bring new members, we change the Constitution. We'll just change it and we'll introduce one member each month.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25687	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25688	Here, I'll finish. To upset the normal public, and he doesn't understand. There is no such thing here accepted, and the House of Peoples that a decision has been made and then there are political turmoils and it brings everything into a confusing state that we simply want, because it is the easiest way to rule the masses, the people here in this space, and we simply sink and do not deal with those issues that we need to deal with, issues of vital importance. That's what I wanted to say and I really think whether to vote or not. I don't think I'm going to change anything about this, and we're going to be able to change if something doesn't change here in most of us, that they look at it themselves, and that their goals begin to meet, and that's how we simply determine ourselves, whether we're for it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25689	We'll take a break at 2:30. We have time for Mr. Slavko Jovičić. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25690	Dear Chairman, also chaired by the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, here we are today and I think that I am here in Parliament that the most debate has appeared on this topic or on this point to discuss. Almost everything has been said, but I'm asking the key question. Today we have a report from the Council of Ministers for 2008. Can we change anything in that report? We can't. Can we attack him? We can do another 100 days. Can we make suggestions on how to fix something? We can do another 200 days. Furthermore, many colleagues said this was not the Council of Ministers' report. I guess by that, they meant as a personification to the chairman that he should have given some of his report, but we got a collection of the ministry's work reports. And I will not speak of attacking any minister, nor of his work, nor of the unhappiness at the head of the ministry. Why? At the last session, we had a report from all our parliamentary committees, which are mostly in charge of the work of these ministries. And to remind you, only a respected colleague, Okolić, chaired by the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, whose member I am, said something. The other reports of the Commission have not been heard, not a single one. Well, since we're famous, and at least I'm not, when the cameras get involved, it's a good bit of promotion for the party, even for the entity, and even for my personal position, even for the reputation of the people, and for me to start by sitting in these benches, I've never read a single sentence in the paper to say, not bravo, Bravo Parliamentarians, no, there are decent people, no, they're doing something useful, but all the worst, the blackest thing that can be. The Council of Ministers, which is our body, we have chosen and always mentioned the parliamentary majority, and this parliamentary majority is the people's choice in their votes. These are our representatives, our people, and not about them, and maybe more niggers, 100 days you'll read in the paper how much a car cost, how much an institution spent, and since October, you've all been witnesses, looking for a joint session to see how we're going to do. Before this recession started, I said we've been in recession since the end of the war, but nobody told the citizens. And believe it or not, since I read 10 a day and buy a newspaper for my money, in just two newspapers I find that some cartoon is short, where I can barely find it, because all of it with a list, and those who aren't more careful readers and don't find it, that's what they're talking about. Mostly: MPs, thieves, huge wages, don't take care of the people, ministers are even worse. Now that's a public opinion. Well, ever since these come to us from the international community, I'm looking at a high representative who says, "Economics is the key." Well done, I say hello! But the ambassador of the strongest force in the world says that the Constitution is more important than the economy. It's completely countered. Can we, as Parliament, Council of Ministers, manage the Presidency with our own country? It's the key and position of all possible reports. It's easy to attack, sometimes it's good to defend someone. I won't defend anyone... to him. Three key things for me are contained in reports or no reports. The road, the Euro-Atlantic integration, and we all said 100% let's go. Secondly, how we will survive economically this year and, thirdly, security that is inseparable. And we who do this political work, choose us people, do not know that we affirm the results of our country. I was in Hungary and Bulgaria. They beg Bog to leave the EU. The salary of soldiers in Hungary is 500 marks. Their average is 390 euros. In Bulgaria, I still don't say what the situation is. But those are the parallels we make here, so we say, 66.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25691	Is that you, Slavko, telling us not to go to the EU?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25692	No, not on the contrary. But I affirm my country that we are a more advanced country than those countries that are members of the EU. We humiliate ourselves. We're in a position to keep what's right and wrong. Why isn't it good? Because RS is a remethylation factor. That's not true. I have said countless times behind this speaker, but RS is an entity, an integral part of BiH and – I will not repeat it again, but for the public, here is to take advantage of the opportunity – internationally recognised countries and will not be separated, but will not suffer the pressures and strike that everything that is wrong, here, the brakes are RS. And when they say that, right now, SNSD, there's no other party. It's just SNSD. It's not our fault. We are a constructive part of both this Parliament and this government, but we will never accept that someone here proposes legal solutions that are anti-constitutional, which cannot be supported. I assure you, I do not convince you, I assure you that RS is not a remethyl factor. It'll never be. It'll be a constructive part. But don't come here from Sarajevo to salva and everything that's wrong: it's no good in RS! Here, let's not do it. But leave her out of it. Let's watch this country's interest. Here's the country's interest. Come on, here we are representatives of the people and members of this House: what did we not do last year? We did, people, a lot of, 13 years ago, we're still still after the war. These countries, for 20 years, are preparing for the EU, have not fired a bullet. They've got a fixed system, they've got, and it's all working. And secondly, I am against those colleagues who make BiH a comparison with any country not in the environment but in Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25693	Just a little patience, a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25694	Not in the environment, but in Europe. Well, it's easy for Croatia to pass the law and Sanader, 5,000 laws, a one-national state, a party ruling, when he says it's over. It is also easy in Serbia, a one-national state. It's like they're asking these national minorities what's gonna happen there. But we're three constituent nations here. We need to make a deal and, right now, what the teacher was talking about, I supported it and I plead all the time. We have to be honest with each other. And let's see what we can do. Do not impose on us any, nor any high representative, nor this ambassador, nor the Council of Ministers, nor us, that which shall not pass. Let's help this people! Let's help the citizens! And it's always the finale for every politician when he doesn't know what he's going to say, and then: we're working in the interest of the people. And tomorrow all the newspapers have announced that this is a thief's parliament, that this is the mafia, that it spends everything and everything, that they're digging through containers, how this, how it is. So we're you, too, that part that creates public opinion and gives a picture. I even suggested to my fellow ministers: let's rent on TV a time to say every minister, my ministry did this, couldn't do this, and that they explain to the people what's going on in this country. People, I beg you, don't humiliate your own country, we've done great things. We don't know about affirmatives, not with strangers, not in the international community. You who travel often, and I point out, will immediately call me as I was in Hungary and Bulgaria, I went to the OSCE account, they paid me, otherwise I wouldn't go to Parliament's expense, because you know, first thing tomorrow, in 67 newspapers, how I travel all the time. So, what I'm saying is, this is all a report. This is our Council of Ministers. This is our Parliament. Give people as many as possible on these three colossals, according to Europe and Euro-Atlantic integrations: the economic situation and the crisis and the security of the country. And work on it. Don't let some of us pass laws that no one can benefit from, and then those of the Centre of Civil Initiatives tell us: you just adopted 20%. So we're not going to adopt 6% because it's not possible to get such consent because of the constitution of the country and the relations within. You need to understand that. But we go forward and I hope and I'm convinced, and that's why I'm in politics, that every day will be better and better. I don't want it to get any worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25695	That's right, Slavko, we're going forward. Now it's a break. We'll continue at 3:30. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats to keep working. So... Mr. Ajanović has given up, I have reported more Mr. Velimir Jukić and Vinko Zorić. So, Velimir Jukić, we're going to jump fine, he's gone. Mr. Zorić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25697	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I didn't want to replicate it to anyone, but I'm going to say here that there have been different assessments of this report from, for example, that the ruling majority wants to save the Council of Ministers until this is the sum of the reports of individual ministries. So I wonder if we as legislators need to change some things and say that we do not want the Council of Ministers' report, but that we want the Ministry reports and the report on the work of the Council of Ministers' chairman. So, if we want... some Council of Ministers report to be just technically, how many laws, how many session attendances, I don't think that's the problem with the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers and the chairman himself. But I don't think the president is able to make a different report than he did the way he did. So we can also consider it a numerous report, but I would, for example, be happier that the House of Representatives, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, discusses the report of a particular ministry. Because today when journalists asked me how I appreciate the work of the Council of Ministers, I said good (3). So I graded it as a school. They were surprised and said it was a very good grade. Then I said, "How else do you judge?" The Department of Defense, the Department of Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Finance? I, for example, would give these ministries a much better grade, but if I have to give one grade for nine ministries and for the chairman himself, that's grade three. I'm not going to mention it on purpose, I'm not going to mention the grades that would be, is it less than that average, but I'm really saying here on my personal behalf that none of those grades would be negative. 68 What I would recommend to the Council of Ministers when they give us laws here in the procedure is that we get better laws. When I say better laws, I don't think we should make up things, we just have to respect the standards... in the legislation that is known, and we all prefer to the EU. But I would also recommend that we do not listen blindly to some who here participate in creating and proposing laws, so I would recommend that we avoid cheating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25698	Here's a new application, so for the second time Savo Erić. Savo, did you sign up? He's giving up. Velimir Jukić is gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25699	There is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25700	I'd rather tell you right now, but here you go. Here you go, Velimir.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25701	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Ministers, I will very briefly only take a few of my observations regarding the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. On the very methodology of making this report, the Council of Ministers accepted one method of reporting and I think it is quite correct. So we have the larger part, but we also have the smaller part that said what was most important in the last year. However, what has been done, someone here said, we can judge how good or not well, but what I would like to say is this: what has been missed in the last year, that the same work gap does not happen this year. About a month ago, I asked one parliamentary question, and this is related to the preparation and model of financing highway construction on Corridor Vc. This report contains basic elements that are part of the answer to my question and only now do I see that I was right when I asked a question like this. So I'm going to ask all of us here again, what can we do to fix this situation and change it in this current year? So, according to what it says here, we see that somewhere around 550 million euros of funds for these purposes have been secured. It is also known that the secured and reserved funds are not free of charge. So it already costs us what we did and it has to cost, because these are the funds that need to be implemented as soon as possible to have that feedback positive effect. And that's why I'm really calling on all of us together, the Council of Ministers first of all, but also aware of all of us together, and the restrictions that have been spoken of here before, I wouldn't be returning to them, but the Council of Ministers has a responsibility to find, despite all these restrictions, a way in which he can't decide he can coordinate. And there it is also called that with the other who are in charge of these jobs to find ways and to complete all preparatory work and activities as soon as possible and to start implementing new funds. I will repeat, a billion marks and more, a billion and a hundred million 69 are not small funds and for much larger and stronger economies and states than our country and I believe that the great, too much luxury of keeping these funds reserved, and that their implementation, I will say, is late. It should be implemented as soon as possible. I also think that in this report, a little bit of what I want to critically look back on, a single assessment of the ministers themselves is missing, and also the chairman of the Council of Ministers on what was important to do, and yet it is missed. If only part of it had been said what it would have been, which were the main reasons why it wasn't planned, and it wasn't done. Of course, I, despite these shortcomings, which I have said, but it is not only the failure of the Council of Ministers – I will support this report and support it. And what I didn't say at first I'm going to say now: this is a major shift forward in the work of the Council of Ministers and the relationship of the Council of Ministers to their commitment, which is that once a year, that is, at the end of the year, they submit a report on the work of the Council of Ministers. Of course, at least that's what I expect, the following reports will be more methodologically uniform in terms of the reports of individual ministries, which is again at the beginning of the opening statement said by the chairman of the Council of Ministers when he said he would do here an additional one, let's say, clarifications or standards that should satisfy these reports. And I'm going to mention just one more question here, and that's about the return of the refugees. In his report, the minister spoke of many restrictions that really exist and are real and objective.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25702	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25703	However, I do believe that the minister, speaking of all the restrictions and what has been done, may have had to say at least part of what was, in fact, the most important reason for the unworked and planned. And what can generally be objected is that there is no comparison of the realisation plan, because then everything would be clear and without any detailed entanglement in some detail in these reports. In the end, I think that this report is correct and reflects realistically what was done and that all important and important elements are contained, important for the assessment, or what was done in the Council of Ministers last year. Of course, I will support the report on the work of the Council of Ministers and members of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25704	Here, this is how we practically ended the debate, and I don't have any more reports. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25705	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, esteemed guests, with due attention we are here today from the Council of Ministers, and several ministers, followed the debate on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2008. I want to thank all those who participated in the debate and those who think that we were satisfied, and those who think that we could have been 70 more, and those who criticized us. And, I must say, what is very important to me today is that the way and tone of debate encourages and creates space for the Council of Ministers to do much more than it did in 2008. And from there I have to say that the people who think I'm an MP in order to do much, that's what Azra said to me, that I would be much more critical of this report on the work of the Council of Ministers than you do today. And you're right there, but I've been... I've been able to get to know each other, and I think what we're doing here today: we've been dealing with the duty of attention to this report and we wanted to meet the demands of the parliamentary committees, and that's why you've got the additions, the addition of one and the addition of two. Many think it's not systematic, some think it's too much, that it could have been quite different. And after this debate, it is almost certain that we must do a uniformity of reporting to Parliament and I want to tell you that it will be the Council of Ministers' obligation and that it is almost certain that this year's report will be different, more acceptable, that there will be no need for us to discuss with the commissions. Perhaps it would be good for you to tell yourself what it is that you would like the Council of Ministers to have. There are different views here and, of course, it's hard to scale up today, I don't want to delude, so I call on my fellow ministers not to do it, because they would open up a sea of debates. So this is the Council of Ministers' 2008 Work Report, we cannot change it because it is talking about the level of activity that the Council of Ministers has carried out. It could've been more, it could've been more intense, it could've been better, as anything in this country could've been better. And that's where we can agree. So whatever we write the report, we can't change the dynamics of what's been done. But we can draw conclusions for this year, and that's why I thought the second point that talks about activities, activities carried out, and what we need to implement on visa liberalisation that is also touching this report, and here I think the conclusions are the only ones that keep us in constant communication good and I respect that. So, the first conclusion I could draw is to type a report that will also be submitted by the Council of Ministers and the rest of the Council of Ministers. Many expect stronger reports, but we actually need to see, and here I am grateful to those, not who have sought understanding for the Council of Ministers, and I would not like the public to see this as a rescue of the Council of Ministers, we should not be saved by the Council of Ministers, we must learn one civilization debate and if the Council of Ministers is not satisfied with the choice of others, but here it speaks of the conditions in which the Council of Ministers is working and whether it can achieve more, or if the reforms we are conducting must be addressed by the Council of Ministers. I'm convinced it will be. Whether it's in my office or it's in someone else's office, it's less important. But I don't write reports as prime minister, as Prime Minister, I don't have that competence either, I write as chairman. I'd like you to read the competencies of the Council of Ministers. So that's gone now and I can schedule sessions, I can call for understanding, that's what I do. And I think the Council of Ministers, thanks to the atmosphere of the more favourable that was created this year in the first four months, has made more progress than for the complete 2008 commitments on BiH's path. I don't want to talk about my position. I'm ready to bend, not to be a leader and not be a leader and make progress. Because when there are many leaders, there is no success. So, and I tried that position and I think this is the only way we could move things and I think it's done a lot. There are, of course, things we haven't done. ... I want to publicly say that the Council of Ministers and I personally have not given up any of the goals... that I spoke of at the inaugural speech of 71 of them. We've realized some goals, some of us haven't, but it doesn't mean that we've given up and we're looking for a political relationship to be created so that it's possible to realize those goals. There were things we stood on for a year. Some show more meaning for coordination and arrangement. If someone thinks this country can run a part of the European path, it's actually wrong, but if we think we can take a step or step, it's much better than standing and standing in a place for a year. I tried to make a few moves like that in the talks with the entity governments, and I think we did it. The two things we stood on last year were to form a working team for the exchange of information (it seems to me to be called) between police agencies, to see how it would be. And we did it, we got the consent of Brisel and the European Commission. The second working group is about fighting corruption and making laws how it should be done. And that's what we did. The law on preventing discrimination? Why didn't we decide to make an inventory of state property? Because that area was drawn, not into politics, but into politics. Therefore, it was necessary to create an environment in which it was possible for the Council of Ministers to do so. Today it's said, and I'd like to trust each other more, and there were the right ones who said there must be a minimum of trust. I've heard different stories: the chairman holds two hundred initiatives, dozens of laws don't put on the agenda, etc. That's what they asked me from the NGO sector, and then I invited people to a meeting with me and showed them and explained how the agenda of the Council of Ministers is drawn up. There is no law and this is the first time since this is the Council of Ministers – not to praise it, we are not the most successful government in the world so that we expect celebrations – therefore, there is no law now in the archives of the General Secretariat waiting for the Council of Ministers to be declared, there is none. Here's the material... that's going to be the subject of the debate. These are points that do not come to the agenda, but are a wave of demands for budget reserves and commission payments. My job was to introduce a restrictions here. I don't think it should be an emergency agenda. There is one proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. I've put it on twice, and it's back to agreeing and consulting. So no one else. I beg you, if anyone has information, I have one difficult role to play to defend the country and from misinformation. Don't be angry, because if these days, when we need to negotiate with the IMF, in prime terms, you hear the news that this country is paying 33 billion tight interest on undrawn credit funds, and that's a bomb. So I can't, so the second day isn't 33 but 15. For some people... the less people understand themselves, the more they're present in the media and the real circus. That won't help BiH, believe me. I want to be responsible, and I don't want to at least make statements on how to address the recession crisis, negotiations, etc. Find me a country that makes a political swamp out of negotiations with powerful financial institutions from the IMF and the World Bank. We're talking, we're having a fiscal council, there's people, we're gonna talk, and we're gonna get some attitude. But the way to talk here is that 33 billion dollars is paid by tight interest, the gross social product is 22 billion, it's simply talking about the absence of logic and exhibitionism that is a punishment for this country. I don't want to do it that way, that way. I don't think today's positive statement on this report should create some victories and defeats. Of course, it is good to create a framework for the 2009 report to be good and to end the four-year term with the realised objectives promised by the Council of Ministers. I'd like things to go faster. I think that in this country there should be conditions for civilised dialogue on all open issues and on reform of the Constitution. That people speak openly and move things as far as there is political agreement and consensus within this country. And it will create conditions and a new condition for the Council of Ministers. Whether this or any other Council of Ministers, 72 is irrelevant. There are things we've talked about, things you've talked about, and today I'm listening for a reason not to have information. There were talks about the foreign trade deficit and the relationship to the CEFTA agreement. You adopted 18. 2. 2009 Report... An analysis of BiH's external trade exchange for 2008. It was adopted by this parliament. It's an extensive analysis. The Council of Ministers warned and the European Commission warned that the adoption of the law that passed through this house was outside the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the CEFTA Agreement, and would have negative consequences. There are our competencies, the Council of Ministers, none other than to say that we are not for having negative consequences. We know that there are problems in this area, and that is now, of course, the relationship of this Parliament. We at the Council of Ministers, I must say that the Council of Ministers is not meant for the ministers to meet the chairman, you know that. So they respond to their political parties. I'm also trying to get the most out of this country. If you give the second condition, I'll respect the second condition. But I don't think there's a country that's been on its Euro-Atlantic path that could bear all the challenges without a prominent role, come on, the chairman or prime minister. Why does Bosnia now expect, BiH expects it to do so in another way? These are all questions I want to talk to you about, because we live in the same country and I want this country to succeed. I don't think she can only make it through me. I think the first time since the Dayton Agreement was signed before Parliament is a man who thinks his basic invitation is not to be the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I'm willing to give anything to do with the mandate we're all in together, both us from the majority and the opposition. So there were stories here for individual ministries, so I begged that today people don't replicate. A good debate has been held, and it is said: The Ministry of Transport and Communications has not done enough, it is late. So, funds and projects were provided up to 31. Seven and after other levels of government like the federal government to finish their part of the job so it won't be too late. So we are incomparable and I agree with those who say neither Serbia nor Croatia, because there is a constitutionally different level of legislation here. Whether it's good or not, and when it's a better time that it's not like that, it's up to the ambience in which we all want to change these things. So, in the end, I want to thank everyone again who has spoken and criticised and referred and I think the only conclusion that can put an end to this is that, in the period ahead, we are uniting the report and that we do not have different interpretations here between the commissions. And the second point is the Roadmap and visa liberalisation which is the motto of this cabinet and mine personally, and I have asked everyone who comes from Brussels not to tell us in January: you will not succeed this year, this is a lost year for you, because it kills the European idea of BiH. It's just like telling a student in September: you're gonna lose this year, he's still playing ball. So we know no one has to give us anything. I think that on this second point we should have working conclusions and that, if we have to, monthly, we are reporting to Parliament where progress is and where there are delays and who should do it. So, we have to keep communication here until our annual vacations, inform Brussels and say that we have fulfilled what is from the map of the road, we ask that we have the same treatment as the countries in the environment, even though those countries, a year and a half before us, began to implement... those obligations from the map of the road that they were tasked with. 73 And that we are not talking about a number of other things that have come into the political sphere and I agree with my colleague Martin, the Šefik, with all of you, so depending on which side man looks, there are areas where we have made progress and there are those where we stand. What we must do is promote what we have done to others. So let's promote what's been done and work on what's left of us. But I'm afraid there's an atmosphere created in this country to make everything a political swamp. So if we're having talks on constitutional reform, okay, let's let them last until we get to the solution, but we have to say we did, I don't know, we did it, we did it, we did it, we did it, we did it. So, I am for that way, and I am for full respect. And I have to tell you that this is the first time, I've been here 12 years, that all ministers are in front of Parliament. And when we get into a situation where the chairman submits a report, then it's a sign that this country has a prime minister. But I am prepared to bear these challenges from a place that belongs to me under the Constitution and by the law. And here, once again, I'd like what we're proposing to have an understanding here. We in the Council of Ministers have the same weaknesses that may exist in Parliament, that sometimes the inad, which is not good. I'm a supporter, Brussels tells us, go ahead, finish that commitment, but he hasn't prescribed us, like in the pharmacy, how we're gonna do. We have to end it with a deal. And there's a matter now of talking and meeting a solution which, I'm sure, will not be ideal, but the country will meet the obligation and citizens will get a white Šengen. The fact that we do not show within the Council of Ministers further transparency should be made by Parliament. And that's the thing that's also up to you. And I ask you, and, behold, I call that the time that is ahead of us, the time in front of us is common to the moment you decide, you wonder. You can decide to end the mandate in this Council of Ministers, you can decide to help us work together and make this country move. So, I respect Parliament, I've been a Parliamentarian for a long time. And once again, thank you to all, I call on the Minister not to answer each other in his own way, because we would stay long, and the other point is important to us, and I mean much more important than this, than this report. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25706	Thank you. Is this a replica, Mr. Dolić?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25707	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25708	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25709	Well, I'll rephrase very briefly what Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers said. First of all, I think the chairman of the Council of Ministers has a really nice story for broad folk masses and I wish this was what he says... I wish I believed it and that all citizens believe it. Just two information. One of the information I understood here is 74, so I need to check the information that BiH is paying 18m euros for tight and criminal interest on approved loans and for unused loans issued by the Deputy Finance Minister, publicly on a TV show. It's not a problem at home, it's not a problem of mine, it's not a problem of citizens. I guess that's the Council of Ministers' problem. Secondly, I read in the newspaper yesterday also the information that is currently approved in BiH and not put into the process of using a billion and per KM credit. Also, I don't know if it's true or not true. Here from what's been a debate, I've heard and heard and has not. As an MP, I don't have competent information about it, and then we can understand what it looks like with citizens. I think we really... don't need to be pessimistic and spread pessimism, but we need to be realistic and realistic about things, and I think that's going to help us get more involved with this current crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25710	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25711	It's not necessary, you'll get more questions right away, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25712	...but, so this, I think, when I said we had to fight misinformation, different information. There are unsettled credits, but we need to know that it's not the Council of Ministers' address that's responsible. There's a bypass around Sarajevo and a railroad loan. That's two things I know about. And, there are long procedures for ratification of credit agreements in BiH. We're talking within the Fiscal Council about how to simplify it, so. But to talk about billions the way they say it, there are in other countries, of course, these World Bank and IMF procedures aren't as transient as our eyes, so we'd like everything for a day, and in much simpler countries, but it can't be spoken in that way. The moment property and legal matters are resolved on the envelope, the funds will be implemented. And we're warning about that, so there are resources that we've provided, and when the funds are, say, for railways, but it's not about billions. You know, when it comes out at a time of negotiations with the IMF information that 33 billion or 11 billion, it doesn't matter, there's a tight interest, so I think it's really something. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It was billions, I listened, I followed a show that had 33 billion, please, so yeah, so I'm talking about it. But it doesn't matter. So why are there, say, undrawn resources? Where procedures are not completed, ratifications are complicated, and we should forgive that and where there are unresolved matters at local level, at different levels of government. But precise information exists, and I think that with accurate information, it should be handled and okay, because these days it's been public and I didn't want to deliberately, of course, because I shared the same trouble with the 75 ministers because that information was coming out of the Ministry's framework. But it doesn't matter, among other things, so we need to talk about everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25714	Here, I'm closing the debate on point 2. Moving to point 3. Ad. 3. Action plan to meet European Commission's recommendation on Roadmap for visa liberalisation for BiH citizens So I won't remind you of the things you know, but it's important to say next. The Joint Commission for European Integration, on 16 March, delivered an opinion on the Action Plan. In its opinion, the Commission said it supports the Action Plan and gives it further procedure. The Commission also adopted a conclusion that reads: - Asking the Council of Ministers to explain at the House the reasons for the delays in the implementation of certain measures and to propose acceptable ways of resolving disputed measures from the Map of Ways. I also remind you that in last session, the distinguished Mr Halid Genjac, acting as chairman of the committee of directors, submitted a comprehensive opening statement on this issue last time. So here's what I'm offering is the possibility of a proposed material. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25716	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to brief you on the visa liberalisation process, while more details on this issue will be given to you by Mr. Samir Rizvo, chairman of the Working Group on visa liberalisation negotiations. Immediately after the opening of the visa liberalisation negotiations, the BiH Council of Ministers set up an Interresor Working Group for visa liberalisation negotiations at its 50th session, on 29 May 2008, with the task of delivering the Council of Ministers to the adoption of the Action Plan for the Implementation of Activities and Tasks from the Map of Ways. The task force sent the Action Plan proposal to the Council of Ministers. It was adopted at the 57th session, held on 29 July 2008. The Working Group has so far held a series of meetings whose results you can see in the summary of the Work Group's work reports delivered. I believe that the report has been well done and that it has been reviewed, and that the esteemed MPs can be convinced of the degree of implementation of the conditions set. In fact, of the 174 requests and activities that have been promoted from the Map of Ways so far, 147 have been met. 18 requests and activities have been partially implemented, while 9 requests have not yet been realised. In order not to confuse us with these 18 demands... the continued activity will be appreciated 76 met when they are fully met, so we can also consider these requirements unfulfilled, but I don't think there are any political dilemmas that could slow down the fulfilment of these requirements. I think it is important to bear in mind that meeting certain conditions from the Map times is a continuous process and that the implementation of these priorities is achieved in accordance with the Council of Ministers' Action Plan. In addition, at each meeting of the Council of Ministers, we consider issues and make decisions that mean further compliance with the requirements of the Roadmap. That's how we are, for example. at the last two sessions, established by the proposal for a law on the prohibition of discrimination, adopted a Decision on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Development of a Anti-Corruption Strategy, adopted rules on the systematisation of the Ministry of Security and the Agency for Identification Documents. These are all the terms of the Roadmap. The Council of Ministers is ready to report to you on this process continuously. Dear gentlemen, finally allow me to point out that my personal goal as well as the Council of Ministers' goal is that by the end of this year or possibly early next year, there will be a time in which BiH citizens will use the benefits of white Šengen. It is often possible to hear estimates that countries in the region have progressed better than we have in the process, but it is necessary to bear in mind that the starting positions were not the same and that these countries had started activities on that path long before we did. I have to say that the Working Group, whose head Mr. Rizvo is working intensively, I think that's an example of how working groups can work in the interest of a country. If this was the report adopted by the Council of Ministers and I believe that what is nine unfulfilled conditions: it is international standards, conventions, shifts within the framework of co-ordination within BiH, not things that... in some difficult political issues that we could not do. That's why I'm calling you, and we're ready for a monthly report to help us. Very quickly, I have information that we will also adopt a law on the prevention of money laundering, which is one of the conditions, and that would be the last obligation to be made by the Council of Ministers, at least from this map of the road that has a political dimension. So here I am asking you to listen to my fellow Rizvo and bring this challenge today with active conclusions. I think there is no greater challenge than to provide the white Šengen for the citizens of this country and not to remain the last country in the region, and in parallel, to hold discussions – you on the reform of the Constitution and other reforms. And here, I want to express my personal willingness and willingness of ministers in the Council of Ministers to work towards meeting these conditions, but also that Parliament also brings challenges to Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25717	Thank you. Here, the chairman recommended it. Here you go, Mr. Rizvo, but please for a moment. We got a lot of material, and here we heard the chairman. So what you think is, in some ways, left out, and it's important to know here. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25718	Okay. Thank you, Chairman. Given that the chairman of the Council of Ministers has already said briefly where we were and where we are now in relation to the whole dialogue on the abolition of the visa regime for BiH citizens, I will only say a few things that I consider important. The whole visa liberalisation dialogue began in May when the Road Map was handed to BiH. At subsequent meetings that we had with representatives of the European Commission, the Roadmap was detailed on all requirements and activities that BiH was expected to meet. We were obliged, afterwards, to submit a detailed report on preparedness to the European Commission and to discuss in detail each of the issues that were in the map of the road. It was done on time. Afterwards, the European Commission made its assessment of the implementation of the Roadmap in BiH and gave basic indications of where this should continue to move BiH to meet its obligations from the Map of Ways. What the Council of Ministers adopted and what was delivered to you, this summary of the reports, consists of a list of requirements and activities that needed to be implemented in BiH and represents our assessment as far as we came in implementation of the Roadmap. What is in this summary of the report does not have to be true, because the European Commission has reserved for itself the exclusive right to set requirements in the Roadmap, to interpret standards that need to be met at every request from the Roadmap and to give a final assessment of whether or not a request is met. So what's in front of you doesn't have to be definitely true. We can expect new requirements by the end of the dialogue, we can expect new conditions to be met. As you have seen, as the chairman noted, of 174 requests and activities under the Action Plan, adopted by the Council of Ministers, 149 has been met so far. The data, and as the chairman said, was 147, but at the last Council of Ministers meeting Thursday, the Council of Ministers reached agreement and met two other requirements, so a total of 149, we have 149 requirements and 16 requirements in progress. What I would like to mention here is that the Interresor Working Group was not able to answer some questions to the European Commission, given that they were not of a technical nature, but of a political nature, and we were simply unable to answer those questions. The answer to such questions should be given by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly through the definition of policies, the adoption of the law, on some of the issues raised in the European Commission's assessment, so I would briefly move beyond these issues. The first six requirements partially met relate to the safety of documents and biometric passports. These activities are ongoing, in accordance with the terms set out in the Action Plan. We expect complete fulfilment of all requirements by the end of the year, because the competent ministry, agencies and others involved are working at an expected intensity. In the second area relating to the adoption and implementation of legislation that prescribes the movement of a person at the external borders, as well as the law on the organisation of border authorities, etc., this is up to you. The 30th summary of this report, as an unfulfilled commitment, remains the adoption of 78 border control laws, and there are still some minor activities that may end within the Council of Ministers. When it comes to implementing the Strategy to fight organised crime and corruption, we have criticism that it is not properly implemented, that it is necessary to revise and approach it in a different way to address this problem. The Council of Ministers already has a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a working group to make a 'Revised Strategy' and to start implementing it. Also, the issue of human trafficking will come to Parliament very soon and it is about bringing domestic legislation into line with the Council of Europe Convention on action against human trafficking. The Working Party for the Monitoring of Criminal Law has already considered this issue and has drawn up a proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Law that should regulate this area. We have a problem with the adoption and implementation of a state strategy to prevent and combat money laundering and terrorist financing, which involves the adoption of a strategy and action plan and the adoption of amendments and the addition of legislation on the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. The chairman said the working group had already been formed and worked intensively in July 2008. As far as I'm concerned, they already have the first draft law, which I hope will be sent very quickly to the Council of Ministers' procedure, and then to Parliament where it should be adopted. As for the issues related to the State Strategy for Drugs, I am pleased that Parliament has adopted this strategy and that we are now left with only a technical part of the work related to the development and adoption of action plans and their implementation. Regarding the issue of fighting corruption, the chairman already noted that these activities were launched and that the issue, once resolved at the Council of Ministers, would be referred to the parliamentary procedure for adoption. One of the requirements is also to implement international conventions on judicial co-operation, especially in criminal matters. There is a need to adopt a law on the provision of international legal assistance already in Parliament and I believe that it is still in the process. It is necessary then to take measures... to improve effective judicial co-operation, it is necessary to establish relations in full capacity with... It is also necessary to take the necessary steps to ensure the effectiveness of co-operation on law enforcement between relevant state agencies, especially the Border Police, Police and Customs, as well as others. The activities discussed by the chairman were also undertaken. We also have issues to develop further regional co-operation and its improvement. These are all things that take place, that are continuous and that are being promoted from day to day, as well as issues of improving... special investigative capacities of the service... for law enforcement. Then, the issue of full implementation of the Personal Data Protection Act, which is also ongoing and in line with the Action Plan. And the last of the issues is also the issue of ensuring more effective protection against discrimination, and the European Commission, by that means the adoption of a law on the prohibition of discrimination, by being told orally at the last meeting we had in Brussels 79 that this issue is very closely related to the issue and the full functionality of the state Ombudsman and the effective abolition of entity ombudsmans. I have just skipped here on issues related to the fight against organised crime one very specific condition, that is, the request has been put before us, and that is to bring state enforcement measures related to the third Additional Protocol to the UN Convention on Combating Organized Crime and Weapons. I see today Parliament's agenda is to give its consent to ratify this Additional Protocol. Measures as we understand them – that the area of imports, exports, production, procurement, holding, movement control and other weapons, military equipment and dangerous materials is regulated. So, all when... right now in front of Parliament is five things that should be done. In addition to these legal projects I have said, there is also a special requirement relating to the formation of seven bodies foreseen by police reform laws. The Council of Ministers completed its work by forming four bodies, which left Parliament to complete the formation of two bodies, followed by the establishment of a Police Coordination Directorate, or the formation of the seventh body. I'd have that much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25719	Enough, enough, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. So, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25720	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, I will skip the first part of my discussion and I will not deal with the analysis of what was and what caused this situation where we are, because we are here a good part of what Mr. Rizvo was talking about, and even the chairman of the Council of Ministers, we had on the agenda. It has mostly fallen either in front of this house or in front of the House of Peoples, and we are in repeated procedures. Let each of us find his role in all of this, but we also knew that this was a question: the question of the Roadmap for visa liberalisation and let everyone think carefully about the motives that were handled when he made the right decision on the appropriate issue. I propose the following, the chairman of the Council of Ministers said so in his opening statement, I suggest that the Council of Ministers every month, so every month, until the realization of all obligations from the Map of Ways, report to this House on the degree of realisation that BiH has on the map of visa liberalisation and that every month we see where we are, who has done what and who has not done what. I think this is the only way we can answer this situation. And, secondly, I will propose this as a conclusion, and I will deliver it to all my colleagues: I propose that the Council of Ministers take all the laws concerning this and they were in parliamentary procedure because, although they are not adopted, I believe they are not lost. They need to be arranged for a few details, as far as I've seen, so that they can be acceptable to this home and let the Council of Ministers try a consensus to adopt those laws. Here, first of all, I mean the Law on Border Control, then the Law on the Movement of Military Equipment and Weapons, if it belongs here, 80 has some dilemmas whether it belongs in this Roadmap or not, the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Matters, the Law on Weapons and all these laws that we had here in Parliament should put them on the table, let them see what is controversial. If there is a consensus in the Council of Ministers on these issues, then it will pass here, I hope, in the House of Representatives. And these laws can be here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in a few days, if they work for the next few days. Here, that's what I had to say about this topic. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25721	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25722	Dear President, honourable colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, allow me to express my satisfaction that this material is, meaning the establishment of a visa-free regime, today in Parliament and what members are present today, I would say, the Council of Ministers and, above all, the Interresor Team coordinator, Mr Rizvo. We got this material in three chapters. One is a chapter, so the Interresor Group's report on the work that showed that when the Interresor Group has a specific task, when the Council of Ministers wants it, then the Interresor Group and the Council of Ministers do their job well. We can see here that the Interresor Group, I would say, has seriously approached the tasks and reporting to the Council of Ministers, then the Council of Ministers has made certain conclusions that have been made to all the ministries responsible for doing so. What's characteristic here is the second chapter. So that's this plan of activity that was actually given in chapter three... Reports based precisely on this Activity Plan and I can say, reading this summary of reports, that I found it unusual to like that in the chapter "Execution of tasks" almost a large number of tasks have been completed. The second part of the task is continuous, which means when the overall procedure is completed it will be completed. So, there's one question of documentation: what is it that's not done and why is it not done? I think here they are, in fact, in this material we can distinguish, exactly: they have noted and the Interresor group has noted two groups of questions. One group of issues is taking the Council of Ministers' political stance. And I think it is a very important question where the Council of Ministers should take that position, and that in other words means that all that is needed to be adopted as a law or measure on this parliament is for the Council of Ministers to adopt the proposal. But I would say, first of all, that this proposal should be adopted by consensus at the Council of Ministers so that we do not come here in Parliament to be in a position to close the deal. That is why I propose... in the second part of these conclusions are Parliament's obligations, and that is to say to adopt those laws that will be..., that is, planned,... in the Parliamentary Assembly and which, simply, we can now realize that all those who have been agreed and who have been given consent, I would say, entity consent on 81 transfers, let's say by the alleged sign, powers, that these laws have passed and that through quality debate they are both quality and done. What I would like to stress in this debate is this: that in a series of measures that the Council of Ministers had given to be done in certain ministries, such as education, getting equipment, etc., deadlines are missing and missing, I would say, funds to equip institutions for more efficient work and realisation of these materials. I think it would be a good idea to add dates with this material, which, in my view, has been well done, with the deadlines for the execution obligation. This, I think, agrees with this proposal by Mr Džaferović that, in fact, both the Council of Ministers and this Parliament have been discussing the implementation of all these programmes monthly, so that we can finally adopt and accept, let's say, this report – have we been able to get into the list of those who are entering white Šengen or have failed, after all, with these additional data on deadlines and resources, because, I must say, we cannot ask for the introduction of automation without predicting funds, and simply that automation should be the efficiency of all those working on these jobs... I think it would be good just to mean that this report is complemented by the necessary resources and, on the other hand, to be complemented by the dates of those deadlines so that we can then, through the monthly analysis, determine the success or failure of the reforms, to say who is responsible, who is not responsible and, ultimately, that Parliament also submits part of the responsibility for the adoption of all those laws that are needed to enter the šengen visa group by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25723	I thank the esteemed representative Bešlagić. The following is reported by the esteemed representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25724	Gentlemen, the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, today this country has a lot of problems and priorities and I would agree with those who say that visa liberalisation for BiH citizens is one of the most important issues right now. It is for me personally and together a political, economic, social and natural issue of human rights for the citizens of BiH. I think that to this day the responsible people of this country, counting on us MPs, have not taken seriously and responsibly the importance of visa liberalisation for BiH citizens and have not taken seriously the conditions set by the European Commission on the path of visa liberalisation. The consequence of this relationship is that BiH, unfortunately, today, is behind all the countries in the region, which, with all due respect, is evidence and irresponsibility for all of us towards the citizens of this country and great, I would say, is a disgrace to all of us. Of course, by the logic of things, that burden and epithet of irresponsibility is proportionally divided into those who exercise power and to us here in this home. We all know that the Roadmap for visa liberalisation has been adopted, we know that an Action Plan for its implementation has been adopted and that, from time to time, both the European Commission and the officials of this country are being warned and informed that the obligations are not being implemented. Such warnings further cause psychosis among BiH citizens and kill, unfortunately, what little hope and optimism they have left. 82 I am pleased that the Action Plan for meeting the European Commission's recommendations today is ahead of this House with an analytical plan, deadlines and executioners of the remaining issues from the Map of Ways. This plan has certain inaccuracies, but I am particularly pleased that all planned and necessary activities are located in 2009, except for the establishment of a permanent asylum accommodation centre and the harmonisation of criminal laws whose deadlines are set in 2010. Obviously, the issue of biometric passports has a special weight in meeting the requirements for visa liberalisation and I am not happy and satisfied with certain findings and inaccuracies of this plan. It is not pleasant to hear that all countries in the region are already issuing biometric passports, and that in BiH we have not yet invited Milan Tarot to tell us when it will begin. Responsible people in the Council of Ministers are making statements about the launch of biometric passports among citizens with widespread psychosis, and there is a high dose of attempts at political score. We learned from Minister Alkalaj the other day from the media that biometric passports will start from July 1st and here, and from yesterday in the media, so by the end of the year and in Europe without visas. That looks like Monday's democracy. I'm afraid the activities in this plan are in style: the test start of the July 1st issue, and the mass release at the end of the year and quite cloudy, hides possible problems and possible deviations. As an MP for this Action Plan to implement the Roadmap, I expected the European Commission's recommendations and BiH citizens to be clearly and unequivocally told that by the end of this year the conditions for visa liberalisation with the EU will be met. If we are not able to provide citizens with jobs and socio-economic security today, then it is necessary for us to meet all our obligations and our conditions for visa liberalisation and thus end their isolation and humiliation. Judging by this Plan of Activities, it is all up to us, and especially to those who today exercise power in this country, and we are responsible because the citizens of this country today are isolated and humiliated. I support this Action Plan to implement the Roadmap for visa liberalisation provided that we get clear answers to three questions today. First, therefore, is this the Action Plan behind which the Council of Ministers stands, because it would be hypocritical for the Council of Ministers to hide behind the Interresor Working Group? Secondly, it would be useful for the Council of Ministers to make it clear before this House that the remaining conditions for visa liberalisation will be met by the end of the year? And, third, I expect to hear, too, what will the Council of Ministers do if this plan is not implemented? At least at this point, it would be moral for one who is responsible to resign or be removed. Plans are necessary, but if they will not be implemented, they will not be implemented, and the citizens of this country do not benefit. So, finally, let me say. With me today, there is nothing that could justify those who do not carry out their obligations under this plan, and I therefore expect this plan to become a project of all of us from today and that we should not be bothered to keep reminding ourselves of the remaining obligations until we draw the line until the citizens of BiH and officially become Evropljanin. So, I, too, support this proposal for a conclusion: that once a month information is submitted on the stage of execution, i.e. failure to comply with the remaining obligations on this plan. Thank you very much. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25725	Mr. Genjac, just two sentences to say, let me. So we have two, four, five reported. Now it's 15 to 5, we have all the rest of the agenda. So we have two variants. One option is to try to be a little faster, perhaps, possibly in discussions somewhat shorter to eventually end today. But it's not a problem, there's another option: we'll be working till 6:00 today, say, and what we don't end up going on tomorrow. Here, so there are two variations. I appeal that we try to speak as briefly as possible, of course, without denying the right to anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25726	Thank you, Chairman. Somewhere in January, we initiated this debate at Parliament... In the meantime, we have received a series of documents and the fact that we are discussing this issue today is a fact that will be taken into consideration when assessing our willingness to liberalise. About what's been done so far, I just want to say two facts. I also want to thank Mr. Rizva for leading the Interresor Group and the entire Interresor Group for all the effort I've had to find out that they've done, reading everything that's been done. I would, of course, like to thank Minister Sadović too because in the Ministry of Security and around the Ministry it was all done and, of course, to Mr Špirić because it was done in the Council of Ministers and because Mr Špirić put this issue in order and expressed his readiness to consider this monthly. Compared to a month ago when only a conclusion had already changed and several conditions had already changed. The key issue is the five-six laws that have been brought down here in Parliament. I ask the Council of Ministers to find a way to rebuild it in a procedure, because at this point I see the biggest problem about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25727	Thank you. Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25728	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I'll make a contribution to this brief statement on this subject. First of all, here are the witnesses that this topic came on the agenda to seek the Parliamentary Assembly, so we've been looking for this and, thank Bog, here's a chance to discuss it. And after that search in the two versions we had, it means from 16. 2., with a condition of 16.2., and with 8. 4, we see really big progress. What's behind us, I wouldn't be too long on it. What's ahead of us is... nine demands, where it says that these are serious problems that exist regarding the political agreement on these terms. What I'm reading from these nine points is that these are all points that are related to corruption, to crime, to terrorism, to prevention, and that further sets before us all a dilemma and 84 clearly we need to give an answer that we are against crime, that we are against terrorism, that we are against corruption, that we are for the protection of the integrity of institutions, etc. And in that sense, I expect that very quickly, perhaps, in that sense, I will suggest one conclusion, perhaps, at a thematic session that would be in this month, to get those nine laws, to vote them out and – like ours when they defeated Belgium, when the whole nation felt a little positive atmosphere – to say the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopted everything that was up to it. There are 10 laws here that there are for us, that the Parliamentary Assembly should pass, that is only up to us, to the Council of Ministers to prepare it for us and that we should bring it to, perhaps, the thematic session; here is a proposal to do so. If we don't, I would also suggest the next conclusion that would go... and here almost everything applies to the Parliamentary Assembly and to the Council of Ministers: that anyone who doesn't want to participate should return diplomatic passports, return diplomatic visas and wait in line with the citizens for visas, regardless of what function in BiH he behaves. In that context, I would suggest that anyone who obstructs these conditions that are to return and thus demonstrate our commitment to the visa-free regime and our path to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25729	Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25730	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, I welcome you all. I'll try to be as brief as possible, given that the biggest part of what I wanted to say is already said in previous discussions. But here's what I'd like to say next. I think this issue of visa liberalisation may be a question of the greatest interest, or it is a matter of public interest to monitor and concern all citizens of our country and, therefore, I think that we should pay very important attention to it. Problems or challenges or unresolved things that are listed here, in my opinion, can be divided into two groups of questions. One is, to call them that, technically and, the other, these are political. And I think these technically get rid of them a lot faster, that's what the Council of Ministers does. I'm, let me say, really encouraged by what Mr. Rizvo just said, because these things change relatively quickly. He brought out things that are not contained in this report but are even more favourable. The problem is a little bit with what's left to do, or we here and I think we're gonna have that little problem. The colleagues mentioned laws that were not adopted here in this Parliamentary Assembly, I will not mention them. Perhaps they are not because they may not have been adopted by quality majority at the Council of Ministers. This too could be seen from some discussions. But I only want one thing here to underline, to emphasize it, and I think it's a huge minus for Parliament. Namely, it's about forming these police committees. Here, I was president of the Ad hoc commission. We worked, these seals were passed, I mean, April 11th last year, so there's over a year that those two laws were passed, and two or three months after that, I mean, at the 7th month, the Ad hoc commission was formed. 85 We have prepared that proposal somewhere behind New Year's Eve. The proposal was adopted unanimously by the Commission, here in Parliament with a vast majority, I don't know if there were any votes "against", the House of Nations was shot down without any explanation. Here, and we have today, one of the next points will be, I don't know what, here's probably going to be the formation of a new ad hoc commission with the same task again, with a result that can be repeated. I don't know how many times we're gonna do this. And then I have the right to doubt our honesty that we are really solving these problems. If we open that question, it opens up a number of other questions. Here, and now we're going into the policy field, and I'm just going to say a little bit about it. Here, I am Bošnjak, and I think this kind of policy brings Bošnjak into one more difficult position than other peoples' representatives, because they don't have spare or double citizenship, or a relatively small number of them have, then these things produce internal tensions, etc. They lead to perhaps radicalisation of relations within BiH, with consequences that we may not be dealing with at this point, and may be very difficult. And that's why I think the most that would contribute to one stabilisation, one relaxation of overall relationships in society, and even economic and all, would be to release this visa regime, because everyone keeps asking, especially young people, because they think when their borders open they're going to solve all their problems. Of course not, but it's such a plot. And I think we have an obligation to really do everything we can to speed this up as quickly as possible. And, in that sense, I have two conclusions here. One is almost the same as counterpart Džaferović suggested. It means that every month the competent parliamentary authorities will (this is the second). The first is: activities not realised with today's date (was 1. 4th, so I changed it to 15.) Sort by carriers, so it is done, by carriers, so that each operator of the activity makes its own action plan with precise deadlines for its execution. Unfortunately, most of it's gonna be right here for us, I think. Others: Every month, the competent parliamentary authorities will analyse the implementation of the Action Plan, according to a report from the working groups, and propose the necessary measures to the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25731	Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25732	I thank you, Chairman. So I'm going to try to be as brief as possible here, considering that we're in the time we're in. Simply put, on one side, so we have a map of the road, we have this visa liberalisation agreement, we have a European Commission, we have the states to which it relates, which actually bring the visa regime. However, I want to point out here, to point out that I have neither heard here nor read in this material, but here I am adding that on the other hand we have one document, we have a European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and between these two there are people to whom all this applies. A moment ago Samir said: And what about Rizvo, what if the European Commission adds some new conditions again, some new requirements? So we have these two sides and we have between them two people. 86 In this report of the Interresor Working Group, among other things, says: 'The first step towards improving human contacts made by the European Community was to conclude an agreement on visa relief with Albania, BiH, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia'... So, the European Community has intended to improve human contacts with people living in Albania, Serbia, Montenegro, BiH, etc. So we have what we have. And for these reasons, I propose one conclusion that we should accept here, which would read: - In light of the debate from the Roadmap on visa liberalisation and the issues of the application of the Agreement on the Visa Facilitation of EU Member States, the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH appreciates all the circumstances, it believes that all the countries that have signed and ratified the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, together with its protocols, should fully respect and implement it, because, in that Convention, it provides, among other things, for the right of people to freedom of movement and residence. The right of a man to freedom of movement and residence can only be restricted... not to a greater extent than provided for by the Convention itself. Therefore, what is provided for as a restriction in the Convention can be implemented, not to a greater extent. For these reasons, I suggest, I believe, on the principle of dignity, that we accept this conclusion, because that is how we send a message to the European Commission that there are people who have the right to move around the world here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25733	And I still have Denis Bećirović on board. Here you go, Denise.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25734	Thank you. The issue of visa liberalisation is a very important issue for all BiH citizens, a life issue and a question that affects all people in BiH, so I am not inclined to try to direct this story in a way that makes some people more affected, others less, etc. I believe that the vast majority of people of all nations are very tangling this issue. I have to say that everything we've done so far on this plan is very little compared to what we should have done, and it's particularly slow compared to the expectations of the people in this country. However, the European Commission's commitments and recommendations are very clear. They're taxing and it's up to us if we're going to meet these conditions and realize these things or we're going to keep standing in place. So, there is a whole set of measures to be taken in the area of document security, illegal migration, public order and security where the general policy against organised crime and corruption has been put in place, which I have not been talking about here in Parliament for years, and here and today we have pointed out the need to put the strategy against organised crime and corruption on the agenda as soon as possible, because this is obviously a question that is related to many areas that BiH needs to realise in the coming period. Given this recommendation by Mr. Chairman to try and make it as clear and more concrete and shorter as possible, I think, and I'll say a few more things. So, by 87 today, we were supposed to provide security of identification documents, and that wasn't done. Provide a central insight into civilian registers of identification documents, develop specific training programmes for officials, establish effective and regular reporting of lost and stolen documents, etc. Not to list now the tax on these things that are set before BiH, which are not realised. Therefore, full activity on visa liberalisation should be fully serious and accelerated. I fear that among those who often bring down certain laws here that need to speed up BiH's EU accession, and in this case for visa liberalisation, we often have a situation where people with diplomatic passports and much easier to get to visas and travel around the world, there I agree with counterpart Nanić, often here stop certain legal projects that BiH needs to bring closer to the EU. And that's the thing that's completely clear. Either this story needs to be serious and speeded up, or a radical move really needs to be made, and a radical move is to take diplomatic passports away from all those who are obstructing very clear and tax-based measures... that the European Commission expects BiH to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25735	No Niko's Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25736	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I must say, first of all, I want to express my satisfaction that the Council of Ministers in this very important area for all BiH citizens here today presented that not everything is as black as it often seems to us. So, they came very seriously to realize the obligations that we've all taken... and it's encouraging. I want, with this commendation to the Council of Ministers, we've all heard that there's one part of the obligation that's up to us here, and two colleagues have suggested one conclusion, so I don't want to take their right. I ask them to propose in writing a conclusion, and I think it is also Mr. Nanić, in a certain way, and Mr. Džaferović suggested: that the Council of Ministers, within no longer than a month (I think it may be within a short time, because we already have prepared these laws and discussions, have gone in the direction of agreeing possible disputed details) all the laws of the Roadmap to liberalise the visa regime and then we take the obligation and show at a special session that we are truly committed to fulfilling our obligations. So, not to be all the way to the Council of Ministers, but to make sure that within the deadline, I think that the deadline of no longer than a month is correct, because I think we've already had these laws, many of them, so that it can be delivered that in the package, so to speak, the meetings on this subject show the true commitment to going towards the realisation of this issue. So here's what I call colleagues who have already suggested before me that they be the only authors, and I hope that we will support such a conclusion. Thank you very much. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25737	I don't have any more.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25738	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25739	I didn't see this. lazare, am I seeing this right? Is it okay if I see it? Here you go, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25740	Chairman, I apologize. Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, respected ministers, I have heard two proposals that I believe are not in the position of a constructive action. However, it is on different sides, they refer to the remark: unless we adopt what is now being ordered, diplomatic passports should be taken away. If you were to ask one of them what it means, one side, on condition, they would say, "These are the guilty." If others were to ask themselves, they would say, "These others are also to blame." So we would come to the conclusion that everyone in BiH who decides on it should take away a diplomatic passport. In order to.... in some issues relating to visa liberalisation, I believe that we are close to the road, given what the speaker said earlier, and also part of the discussion that has been taking place today and I have listened carefully that we do not consider that such exclusivity could act in the Parliamentary Assembly, but that what it has recommended for us and what is our obligation by the European Commission – by compromise and long talks, we have come to what the esteemed Vice-President Lozančić said to be in a situation that we should one day bring a number of documents. That's possible, we have positive examples. Where we worked hard and patiently, we passed, say, a law in the field of education, in the field of... nuclear protection, the drug law, not to speak now of a series of other laws that we patiently passed. I think the ministers, I apologize, so the Council of Ministers and the competent ministers must have a greater sense and sensitivity to what the difference is and how it is possible by compromise to come to a common solution to pass laws and also with certain consultations with other institutions of complex government in BiH as it is that we would mostly come to this conclusion in the Parliamentary Assembly. In that sense, so I consider whether we are, I am for each of these laws, but I am not for any law that is ultimate and that is of any kind, even if it was now anyone in this country. So, I did come to a compromise, to be a law that is European orientation, to be in the interest of BiH and all its structures, now not to mention what it is, and without these, conditionally speaking, sanctions that would always be unilateral and subjective. That's it. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25741	I didn't really get it. Some sanctions and ultimatums, but good. But we'll see about these passports, okay. So... this is the most effective measure. So, I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on. I thank the people who attended this point here. May I have your attention, please? Let's go to point 4. Ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure On 6 April, the Council of Ministers delivered the draft law to Parliament from this point. It's about the bill's proposal, to remind you, which was declared by the High Representative on 20 February this year. So, this law is in force on a temporary basis until the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopts it, so in the same text. I'm opening an emergency hearing. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to point 5. Ad. 5. The request of MPs Sadik Bahtić, Lazar Prodanović and Velimir Jukić to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25745	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to explain in a few sentences, which is why I think it's a bad idea for this law to be considered in a shortened procedure. In this case, we know well that it is necessary for the Management Board to agree on indirect taxation. Since the procedure provided for under Article 126 is envisaged, it itself implies the possibility of amendments to this law, which would further mean that such an amendment must go to the Directorate for indirect taxation of consent or disagreement, it is irrelevant. Therefore, Hope may reject it, may accept it, but in any case the debate on this amendment is related to meetings of the Management Board of indirect taxation. Since these sessions are scheduled...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25746	Wait a minute, Mr. Novaković didn't finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25747	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25748	No, I thought it was useful, since it was a proposal from the Council of Ministers, and the chairman and the minister are there. Therefore, given that the meetings of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board are held periodically but not within 15 days, as far as we would now have in this procedure, I believe that the procedure under Article 126 actually makes it difficult to act, the amendment to the effect on this law. That is why I propose not to go by procedure 126, a team before this law has been anywhere between the Council of Ministers and Parliament for three weeks. So if we had rushed a little bit into delivering it here to Parliament, we wouldn't even have to go in a shortened procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25749	Mr. Zorić, just a moment to hear from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Maybe this information will help us get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25750	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, ministers, guests, namely, it's been a long time working on this law. This law also has the consent of the Directorate for indirect taxation, entity governments, entity parliaments, because it is a complexity. Perhaps the most logical thing would be – I see that you're asking us to help you a little while ago, I avoid whenever we can send you laws by emergency procedure, but you have to be aware somewhere when he's gone through all procedures and directives, and entity parliaments and governments – you cut the procedure and adopt it in a shortened procedure, without amendments. We have the same dilemma. So, it's been all the procedures. The procedure has been shortened only 91... out of respect for Parliament so that you do not tell us not to seek such an important law by emergency procedure, although I think he has the only chance, since I know what the demands and these dilemmas are, that it would be best if it were under Article 127. Because if an amendment phase is entered and opened, essentially, it will return to the Directorate for indirect taxation, according to entity governments, entity parliaments, and it is very important for the sake of reform and for what is called the economic and social crisis that this law be passed, because part of the revenue is planned under this law. The more we're late, the more revenue we've lost for this year. And I'm asking you, so no, we sent him in a shortened procedure for this reason, all consent to this law has. And it's up to you, you can adopt him at the next session and the best is, I suggest, no amendments. And with the amendments and no amendments, it won't be ideal. But this, I think, are built-in solutions that are agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25751	Here, this must have been useful. Here you go, Vinko Zorić. Excuse me, Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25752	Well, you see, I agree with the chairman that it was very useful to hear from the Chairman's Council of Ministers. Namely, the chairman said don't invest the amendments, invest or not invest, or it'll be like this or it won't be at all. We've given it to you for the form of not saying that you're going by article 127, but basically you can't change anything. You see, I wouldn't say that. First, I am not sure that the Council of Ministers can influence the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25753	I, if I heard correctly, apologize for coming in. The man said before this rally that all consents have, and the board of directors and two entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25754	Mr. Chairman, I want to get all the consent or disagreements on my amendment. And for that I have little time in the short procedure, because those who need to give me consent or disagreement will not meet in the time provided for by the shortened procedure. And for those reasons, not to say, the silences of the administration will be rejected. Secondly, I don't see why I can't propose an amendment that I'm going to propose more money to get together, not less money. Here, I don't think getting into the essence of the law, because I don't want to get into the essence of the law now because we're talking about procedure, I think I'm proposing an amendment that will provide even more money in the budget. And I don't see any reason why anyone wouldn't accept that more money, including entity governments. 92 So please, if this doesn't make sense what we're doing, then let's let it go by Article 127 so we know it doesn't make sense. This is all we do one way or the other. It's not even the first time we've adopted out of logic laws here when it comes to these things, we've passed the Law amending the Customs Tariff Act for Sugar Out of Logic, we're going to adopt here and out of logic, so let the paper write who's the one who cut out, who took the money from who took the money, who gave the money to whom. I suggest they don't write about it, but in the regular procedure we put amendments, we don't get consent, it's irrelevant, we pass the law and finish the story.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25755	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25756	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25757	I don't think it matters what anyone writes. There are organs that need to examine everything even if someone fats a mustache to answer for it. That's the most important thing to me. And please nicely, so what I think is very important here, this is the law – you know that we have passed the Fiscal Council Act, on coordination, on discussion, etc. – so much time has been spent, it can be spent another year on amendments and that we have no law and therefore I am sorry that it is not under the procedure of Article 127. And if it's about amendments to that law, it's not a problem. Then you can already have time to talk, this is what counterpart Novaković is talking about. But I'm afraid there's going to be a lot of time. You know, we were just talking about projects related to road construction, road construction, etc. and the maintenance of loans from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. And I think that if you can get to better solutions quickly, I don't mind. And all the dilemmas you have, they all had, and these people, so the representatives of the entity governments, and I'm saying that it has the consent of the Committee, it has entity governments and parliaments. Going further into some debates and looking for even more favourable solutions will adjust the procedure, we'll lose four or five months. You know how long we've been talking about this. That's the only reason I said it. So you're wondering about the procedure. You can cut it short, you can do it on a regular basis, and you can do it by article 127. I think, because of what we're talking about, about the economic situation, it's better to go by article 127. And if anyone will, so if you don't accept this one, you're going to the regular one, right? If someone wants to spend half a year here, a year, we can't affect that, of course. Thank you very much, but I say that all consent exists, I have nothing, Momo, against all MPs having amendments. I mean, I don't mind, but you do. To mention, therefore, it is very important that as far as I am concerned, I think that Parliament makes good decisions. I'm not afraid when someone writes that someone from the Council of Ministers, that's what the authorities need to check. If there's someone who makes money on any decision, I'm a lifer. And that's where I'm clear. And I call on all the authorities for all the decisions we've made, and on a proposal from the Council to ask if there are any. And we need to get out of that kind of speculation, because we didn't help anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25758	Thank you. I hope the chairman didn't mean the moustached people in Parliament. Bajazit Jašarević. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25759	I must say, I'm sorry, I'm sorry that I have to replicate the Council of Ministers chair, but it's not a replica that will bring additional problems. So we expected the Council of Ministers today to propose this law under Article 127. The Rules of Procedure, because we are convinced and we should at least tell him that there will be no change in this round of lawmaking. He'll either pass like this or he won't pass. And if there is a possibility that the motionor proposes to this Parliament to go first after 127 and if it does not pass then it will definitely go to 126 or to regular procedure. It would be good for the Council of Ministers to do that because we are deeply aware, no matter what we say here, there is no way that anything changes in this law. He can only go through like this or not. If it doesn't pass, it's too bad for BiH. If it passes, it won't be as much use as we all think, but it'll be a great benefit to all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25760	So we still have a choice, right? Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25761	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was saying something in the agenda about it, that is, in the context of the report on the work of the Council of Ministers, that I expected today that we would have one set of laws, some amendments, etc. that would be appropriate to this situation. Instead, we will discuss today the reduction, i.e. the change of wages, the law on changes in wages, VAT and here, on the proposal of the Council of Ministers, on excise duties. You see, here we now have a note from the chairman of the Council of Ministers that it would be good to adopt this even after 127, because it's an emergency procedure, because we're going to lose a lot of money if we don't opt for a shortened procedure today. Here, I tell you that on the 21st day he traveled this bill from the Council of Ministers to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And now the Council of Ministers convinces us that it's good for us to adopt this in 20 days. You see, when you read the reasons why this amendment is offered, or the adoption of the law, it is said that this previous law was bad from the point of view of making its application more complicated, etc. What will, please, be lost if normal procedures are accessed here? The normal procedure is longer than 20 days, a month, but it allows people to see what it's all about. If an amendment to improve this proposal is considered to be rejected, it is indeed rational to propose 127. Of course, I'll never accept it, I don't think that's good. But if it's only good what came from the Council of Ministers and we don't have any right to improve this, to explain, there's also a lot of ambiguity here, then I don't see why it's offered and a short procedure, why it didn't go down 127, you have a hand and we're not harassing ourselves here. So there's no reason, from my point of view, that this law is being considered by a reduced procedure, because I already have certain reactions to this, and I have my own approaches, 94 why the excise duty is so much, and why it's not bigger, etc. So don't start with us having evil intentions, but we have good intentions to improve this law and it's high time to discuss it. And finally, let me just say that I'm sorry that the Council of Ministers is only going on about this, changing and harmonising our legal legislation, so overall, with the overall state of affairs, but it's not being stated about the two similar laws that we have in the procedure today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25762	Thank you. I'll remind you that we're working until 6:00 and we're talking procedure. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25763	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, of course, we are talking about the procedure and I will support the procedure, but before he came to the bench, I was expressing my doubts at the time, so here I will say regret. Why exactly three items just excise? What about other luxury and luxury goods? Procedure, I know, but here's the joint discussion. As I'm about to, I have to mention, the procedure is this. What three of these? It's procedure, but then I'm not into this. So, it was good, there were possibilities, just one example of cigarettes – which the minister knows better than I know ten times, because I was interested – instead of 15 fenings, that the regular excise duty from 42 increased to 50. Why don't people take the money where we can? To save people and health. Well procedure, procedure is we got three items. common discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25766	Just a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25767	How am I gonna vote for this if it's only three, and I want it to be 300 more? 95 [[Common discussion]] I understand, gentlemen, and you understand me. The procedure is to crush this quickly, it's procedure. I respect the Council of Ministers' proposal but that there are another 10 or 15 luxury goods, then I am not in favour of a shortened procedure but of today's procedure that is not in the Rules of Procedure. Don't tell me about the procedure, I guess I understand that. I learned about these two years, and I knew it before. Let's do something about it, so we can get eyes on the people and tell cca 170 million marks, right, income, and we'll figure out how, instead of having 570 million. I'm fighting for this country to come to income and it can help this people, and it's not the Council of Ministers' fault, it's that unfortunate administration that you can't do anything without it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25769	Please don't throw yourself away, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25770	I want to hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25771	I'll talk to you later. Slavko, are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25772	No, he's got a line.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25773	Say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25774	Whoever you propose the procedure, I will plead to her in my own way, in my conscience, but she is the procedure of simmering, not by the Council of Ministers, not by that, don't let Bog think of you and anyone, but instead of taxing what we really needed. Oh, you leave the number that's... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25775	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, about the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25776	Just for a little while, procedure. Dear Chairman, I'll tell you in a moment. When something tries with 126, it's a special reason and should be a special explanation. Here, this morning 96 we got on the table of this law, this bill and I'm a little bit of a reason, an explanation, etc. I read and searched for what he was doing after 126, and in the meantime I held some consultations that have now proved unnecessary, as only now since the chairman of the Council of Ministers has been told that all consent exists. This act was addressed to the Parliamentary Assembly on 10 April, today it is 15, which could mean reaching between 15 and 10. If it were serious, if it were to be written under a shortened procedure and immediately said or by an ex post act, it was all implemented in the procedure, so that we could think differently when it comes to this procedure, and not ask for everything that should be implemented, and this applies mainly to the amendment phase. If we wanted to make amendments, we wouldn't have time for a brief procedure, and here's something that changes this statement by Mr. Chairman that I don't see that this consent has, except that I believe his word, because it should be attached here, not only that one, but all those consents that have been made, and I pray the answer when they arrive. Did they arrive between the 10th and 15th? If they arrived yesterday, it's something new that I just need to know about my next procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25777	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović is next.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25778	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I support the procedure under Article 126, therefore a reduced procedure for several reasons, and one of the main reasons is that this law requires the deactivate or activate or withdraw already approved means of credit for the construction of roads. And I'm asking the finance minister to make us, if he can do it, is that 18 or 33 million tight interest? I don't know how much that is. We heard various numbers today. To tell us in that report, which is why we're paying heavy interest and who's responsible, that we have it here. We're free to raise our loans and then spend those loans by paying heavy interest. Then it's just crazy people doing it, I think. And I don't think we're crazy people. Give us that report, please, for the next session. You don't have to do it for the next session, but in the next month if you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25779	I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25780	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25781	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25782	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25783	Sure. Here you go. May I have your attention, please? Vinko Zorić, business. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25784	I was the one who signed up for the procedure debate and no one gave me their word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25785	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25786	I'm angry now and I won't talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25787	I apologize, Vinko. Vinko, I'm really sorry. Here you go. Okay, Mr. Vinko Zorić is angry. Here, and have Momčilo get mad, I've concluded the debate. So let's go to point 7. Ad. Seven. Request of the SNSD Member's Club to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure You've received a proposal. The Proposer shall require a shortened procedure under Article 126. I am opening a debate on a request for a brief procedure on this bill. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point 8. Ad. 8. Confirmation of Council of Ministers' Decision on discharge of Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport and Deputy Minister of Defence for Politics and Planning
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25790	Mr. Chairman, this application is for the last item. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25791	I thought it was for this one, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25792	No, no, it was for the last one, but you crossed over, and you didn't give me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25793	Well, here, you can do it both ways.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25794	You closed the debate. No, I'm not angry, I can't get mad at the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25795	Thanks, Momčilo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25796	I don't know how much it makes sense at all, but last time in the debate here, something was said that wasn't true, so I wanted to say by this law. So it is not true that entity parliaments decide on excise duties, nor is it true that entity parliaments will decide on a value added tax. So it's an incorrect finding. It is decided by the Fiscal Council and decided by the Directorate for indirect taxation. Just for the truth. For the same reason, I believe that this law, because once a month the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board is meeting, and the Fiscal Council and less rarely, will not be able to obtain the necessary consent in the shortened procedure. That's why I'm suggesting to my colleagues that we go with this to the regular procedure. In the ordinary procedure, there is no disputed support for this law, but I don't think we'll be able to finish what we need in a short procedure. Nothing more than that. I apologize one more time, really.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25797	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25798	I'll say it very briefly. When selecting members, i.e. the confirmation or election of members of the Council of Ministers where these two deputies are, we have been restrained from the SDS, and this time we will be restrained in confirming this Decision of the Chairman on Resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25799	Branko Dokić. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25800	Mr. Chairman, I have one amendment to this decision and a motion for a decision that should be adopted by the Parliamentary House. The amendment refers to the legal arrangement of the Decision. Namely, instead of the word "resolvement," the word "replacement" should stand. And in the Explanation of the Council of Ministers' Decision, I quote, it is called on Article 15 of the Law, saying, 'The Chairman', I quote, 'The Council of Ministers can initiate the procedure for the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers', so it explicitly writes for the shift, 'if the Parliamentary Assembly makes a decision to confirm the shift', means again the shift,'minister or deputy ministers'. The chairman of the Council of Ministers is obliged to appoint a new minister, or deputy, in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 10 of this Act. Therefore, it should be fully in line with the quoted member of the Council of Ministers Act. I would suggest, since you can see that the House of Representatives is making a decision on taking a shift, that I am not particularly explaining, I have made an effort to consult with the lawyers, of course. 'According to Article 150. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, shall take the decision to confirm the replacement's shift, etc., that I do not read. 'Article 1. This decision confirms the shift, so it quotes who. 'Article 2. It shall be responsible for chairing the Council of Ministers that, in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 10. The Council of Ministers Act appoints new deputy ministers, it's prescribed by this member that I just read. 'Article 3. The appointed members of the 1st decision are obliged to perform their duty to confirm their successors by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. I mean, this is what I want to explain. The Council of Ministers Act does not explicitly say this, but it can be concluded. I would also like to remind you of the legal opinion of the 2005 OHR, I think that in February 2005, after Mladen Ivanić and I resigned, and then they said that the position by which either the Minister or the Deputy Minister has been removed must carry out his duties until the House of Representatives confirms the appointment of the other, and then they get it out of Article 12, where they are talking about changing, or replacing the chairman when... So it doesn't say explicitly but they pulled out of that member that it's an obligation. Even I have a memo, signed by Mr. Eždaun, in which he is threatened that unless we accept it to threaten us with political sanctions and so forth. On the other hand, you have in Article 7. The Council of Ministers Act, which explicitly states that every minister has a deputy. So this is how continuity is realized. This is the period until the House of Representatives at the proposal of the Council of Ministers confirms the appointment of others. During that period you can normally make a handover. There is a representation of all peoples in the Council of Ministers, so it could be referred to other members. And I would pray, so here, I would also ask those who did not vote for this to respect this fact and that, given that the party has also asked to support the chairman's proposal on their shift, but also to make this continuity until their deputies are elected in this same parliament. Here, thank you. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25801	Parliament's role is a practical confirmation. So we were in no way the creators of this document that is here today before us. Here, I see Mr. Špirić is consulting with his advisors and I'd like to see what this is all about. As far as I'm concerned, there's no problem, we'll say it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25802	And I'm trying to understand what this is about. But, you see, ladies and gentlemen,...of course, counterpart Dokić is an MP from a political party from which the deputy ministers are from. I respect his intention, she is human, as was my human intention not to initiate this initiative regardless of the misunderstandings until they started calling me "I don't have the courage to go to Parliament and ask that people be resolved at the request of their party." And I just did what was in accordance with the Council of Ministers Act and I ask Parliament to do it. I also warned the party that these people, to whom I have not said a bad word, nor will I say it today, would therefore have these things which he speaks with the right of Ambassador Branko. But she had to take care of the party. So, I agree here that Article 15 has been used here and that the decision takes effect on the date of confirmation by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So today we confirm it. This parliament can give a discount if it wants, but I won't be told again tomorrow that I don't have the courage, because this doesn't need courage, but respect for the law. And I was warning then: if anyone wants a shift and for a year you're getting paid and teasing all of us that we're running, then it's not okay. So it's a dangerous power when a tooth, like electricity, kills itself. This is the most honest. So, please, you are, Parliament is making a decision, not me. I came out here once before Parliament, so you rubed my nose. I now expect other things to work out a personal conscience, including Parliament's responsibility. So, I don't think I need to correct anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25803	Mr. Špirić, we'll do the law. You stand behind the text of this decision, and we will plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25804	Okay, sure. I filed this request here. I beg you, therefore Parliament is making a definitive decision, and the ministries will work and, of course, have ministers, have assistants.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25805	Here, now we have the electrician and the chef today. So, Momčilo Novaković. Replica, Branko Dokić. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25806	Mr. Chairman, I haven't made any remarks about the chairman's relationship with this issue, I really haven't. I only pointed out that the decision was in accordance with the law and that everything was in accordance with the law. I haven't read it to you. Now I'm going to quote from this legal opinion of the OHR. It is explicitly stated that the face placed has no right to its own discretion when it comes to... the date of departure from function. Therefore, there is no party right to their own determination when someone will leave office. He leaves when the House of Representatives appoints their deputies. I think it is fully in line with the procedures and the law and I am using this opportunity to thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for a full understanding in the process so far and hopefully in the future and to see this through without the legal norms moving forward as soon as possible. The sooner the chairman proposes to the deputies, the sooner this will be over, and I will definitely and finally be in this House in opposition, but the club will not change.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25807	Just a little more patience, please, and let's not waste any time in the finals. Mr. Lozančić, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25808	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I think the thing here is a little bit of a grinding pot, the bottom line is that this House of Representatives today can make a decision to confirm the Council of Ministers' decision, or not make such a decision. Everything else is out of this house's competence and let's stick to what our competences are. Here, but I will say how much my memory of the Council of Ministers' Law has not faded here, any official who, in accordance with the Council of Ministers' Law, has taken office since leaving office, is not leaving office until a new one is appointed. What does it mean? Doesn't mean that this and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, if we can confirm his Decision today, that he has the right to wait a year to appoint new ones. I expect the chairman of the Council of Ministers, if this decision is confirmed today in this House, will also make a new decision hastily and ensure full capacity of the Council of Ministers and with a possible new deputy, should these be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25809	Here, I've tried something like that and I've tried to talk. But here it is, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25810	Nothing, I just wanted to say that I didn't realize the chairman whether the Council of Ministers law obliges them to work until the election of others. If it is not binding, then, I think it is necessary, that we can, I do not agree with the Vice-President that we can, of course, confirm this decision but also draw the conclusion that Mr Dokić spoke of. In the event that no such conclusion is reached, the two deputy ministers in the order of the Serb people, means the two 102 seats will not be filled, so at this point, which will naturally disrupt certain relations within the Council of Ministers and I think it would be good... to reach such a conclusion as Mr Dokić suggested, of course, confirm the decision of the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers before that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25811	Mirko Okolić, is it a replica or is it a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25812	Replic, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25813	I see you're very... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25814	So beware, they said it was normal that they would do all the work until new deputies were proposed and confirmed at this session of the congregation. Yes from Article 2. Mr. Chairman's decisions, I don't see it. He says, "Article 2. The decision takes effect on the date of confirmation by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH'. And it doesn't say that this decision will come after they've proposed and selected new deputies. That's why someone has to take responsibility if there's going to be a disturbance to the public's balance on the Council of Ministers, or individual ministries, if that happens in a period of, I don't know, a few days or even a few months. It's just what I want to draw attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25815	Thank you very much. But I am convinced, please, I am convinced that the chairman of the Council of Ministers appreciated all these circumstances and I am going back to the role of Parliament. It's our day to confirm or not confirm. Of course, we also have responsibility for the content. Please, there's no need for a further replica. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point 9. Ad. Nine. Redundancies of Ivo Bradvica, Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for resigning You got the resignation. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to point 10. 103 Ad. Ten. The appointment of three members of the House of Representatives at the Ad hoc Joint Commission for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Ombudsman for human rights instead of Ivo Bradvica
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25819	Well, you see, it would be good if this committee wasn't called the Independent Committee. There's no reason to call him the Independent Committee if we appoint three MPs to this Ad hoc joint committee, because because he's called the Independent Committee didn't even get the commission to finish his job last time, because he was supposed to be addicted, and it happened at one point that he was independent, unplanned. Namely, by leaving Mr Ivanić, he suddenly became independent,...which then, of course, led to the failure of the members of this committee. And of course, this may seem a joke, but it's not a joke at all. I must say, no matter who passed the law, it doesn't make sense that there's no one from the opposition in this Ad hoc commission. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25820	Do you have a suggestion, Momo? Propose then the House will plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25821	I don't have any suggestions. This speaks of the relationship between the College and the Expansive College and us as Parliament, first of all, on this issue. I don't have any suggestions, I just hope that the House of Peoples will be someone from the opposition, at least one man from the opposition. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Of course I could...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25823	Let the man... finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25824	I think we... we don't get it wrong. Of course, I absolutely don't mind any of this man anything, I'm not talking about them, but I'm talking about the composition... of this Ad hoc commission where it would really be logical to be someone from the opposition of six members.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25825	I have to say I'm very sorry and I understand you very well. I'm very sorry you didn't run it on the Expansive College and we could have, I suppose, found that kind of solution, but here's what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25826	Well, I mentioned a few things on an extended college day, and none went through, so I didn't see any reason to mention it, believe me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25827	Sometimes more success, sometimes less.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25828	Like now, I shouldn't have mentioned it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25829	I have replicas, here, thank Bog, Adem Huskić. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25830	I'll just...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25831	Come on. ADEM
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25832	: very short.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25833	Short replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25834	If I understood Novaković, he said this commission did not agree. The Commission has also agreed with six votes "yes", without the vote "against", and proposed a solution and this House adopted a solution. He didn't agree with the House of People, and that's true.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25835	He knows that. He knows that, Momčilo. ademe, I assure you. Drago Kalabić gave up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25836	I didn't give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25837	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25838	Mr. Huskić said one part. The second part, the same thing that counterpart Novaković said, and the second part is not true, although Ivanić did not leave anything, he participated in the Committee's work, signed, so he finished the work. So it has nothing to do with what happened in the House of Peoples. So he wasn't making any out. He was a member and he ended up, and that means he'll be back, and he's in opposition now. So you will, the opposition will have one member. On the other hand, a member of the College of this committee who oversees all of this is from, now, whether from Democratic or Serbian Democratic, who will know it, but from some of this story is a member of the Kolegijum, an important commission, to whom we have given it without talking about what controls us all, Mr. Okolić. So, all surveillance complete... (Laughter in O.R.)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25839	Thank you. 106 Mr. Križanović, I can see it's different, but people come forward just like you do. So, Mr. Novaković, you see there's always someone here who thinks about everything, right, Drago Kalabić. So, is it a replica, Mr. Okolić? Thank Bog. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 12. Ad. 12. Giving consent to ratification Do I need to read all this for the record, Rajk? I don't need to. I'm opening a debate because you can see what agreements and contracts are about, protocols. ... So it's two, four, five protocols. Are there any reports of a hearing? There isn't. I'm also closing the debate on item 12. Once again I use the opportunity to Mr. Špirić and Mr. Vrankić and others who have taken the time and I think this has been useful to them, and Mr. Kasumović has arrived to us, about some of these losses, billions and so on, well. When are we going to do this?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25841	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25842	You weren't at the right time, that's too bad.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25843	I've been working.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25844	Someone's got to work, somebody's got to work. Please, is it enough till 6:00 to gather around? At 6:00 a.m. vote. [[PAUZA]] All right, please, take your seats. I think we're all here now. Please, Mr. Jovan, take your seats. Let's make a statement in order. So point 1. It's a 50th-session record. Prepare to vote. Vote now, with the remark, of course, Mr Bećirović. 107 38 votes "yes" (26 Federation, 12 RS). We have both a general and an entity majority. I'm realizing we've adopted the record from the 50th session. Point 2. A report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2008. We vote on the Council of Ministers' work report. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 27 votes "for" (18 Federation, RS nine). I would like to conclude that the Council of Ministers' 2008 work report has been given to both the general and entity majority, thus being adopted at the House of Representatives. Let's get this straight. Please, we have a number of suggestions. Are we going to declare ourselves in the conclusion package or at any conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25846	Can I make a suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25847	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25848	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25849	It just took a little while earlier, but here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25850	At both points, in order not to come now, I know exactly that we should have suggested that these conclusions on this point be agreed by the Constitutional Commission, and secondly by the Commission for European Integration.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25851	Is this report acquittal?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25852	Not this report, the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25853	I'm sorry, the findings on the occasion of the Constitutional Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25854	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25855	What about the findings on the occasion of the visa report? 108
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25856	Yes, it is. I think it's the best solution, it'll be done quickly, and that's how we get out of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25857	Okay. So, we will make a statement on Mr Drago Kalabić's proposal, so that the conclusions, all the conclusions in the field of the Council of Ministers' report on the work, are going towards the Constitutional Legal Commission to be agreed on, because there are quite similar conclusions, and that the conclusions in the context of the report on the implementation of the visa liberalisation commitments are going to the Commission for European Integration. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 16 votes "yes", 22 "against". It didn't pass. So let's get to the bottom of this. Please prepare to vote. We declare the conclusions of Denis Bećirović. Let me get this straight. No, no, please, Mr. Bećirović. So, I'm asking Dom if we're going to make a statement at the conclusion or for all together? I'm asking the House to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25858	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25859	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25860	As a conjecturer of the conclusion, I suggest we make an individual statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25861	Excellent, Mr. Bećirović. Let's go, please, just a little patience, let's go. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance Prepare to vote. Vote now! 16 votes "yes" (13 Federation, three RS), four "against", no entity majority. No consent, let's move on. We declare conclusion 2. Denis Bećirović. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 109
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25862	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25863	We vote, Jozo! I didn't understand you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25864	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25865	We'll get it straight, Jozo, in three days. Conclusion 2 has no general majority, has not been adopted. We're going to Lock 3. Please prepare to vote. Vote now!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25866	I'd like to ask you to list...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25867	Well, of course, you'll get a list for everything. I vote against everyone, you don't need a list. You don't need the list for sure. 17 votes "for" (12 Federation, RS Five), 10 "against". Denis Bećirović's third conclusion passed. Please prepare for the vote on Conclusion 4. Vote now! I'd like you to refrain from commenting because you'll get an answer right away. So 11 votes "for", 15 "against", there is no general majority. So, we're left with Conclusion 5. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 15 votes "yes", nine "against", no entity majority. We'll agree in three days. We have completed our statement on Mr Bećirović's findings. We have the findings of the SDA. They have three points here, or this is one conclusion with three subpoints. Please prepare to vote on the SDA's conclusions. Vote now! 23 "for" (21 Federation, two RS). We don't have the consent. 110 Let's go to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. Vote now!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25868	Please repeat.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25869	You got it. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! We vote in the second round on the conclusions of the SDA.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25870	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25871	Please be patient, Mr. Okolić. Need it again, Mr. Okolić, to register you. It's okay, it's a document, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, Get ready to vote, okay, okay. Vote now! Press hard! 22 "for" (20 Federation, two RS), 11 "against". This conclusion has not been reached by the entity majority, has not been adopted. It wasn't adopted, this was the second round of voting. We agreed, we disagreed. We voted in the second round: 11 votes are "against" and this conclusion has not been adopted. In this way we have determined the conclusions of point 2. Reports on the work of the Council of Ministers. Let's go to point 3. The plan of activities to meet the European Commission's recommendation on the Roadmap for visa liberalisation for citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please prepare yourselves. So we declare this plan of activity and the report on the work of the Interresor Working Group. So you get to know each other. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 35 votes "yes" (22 Federation, 13 RS). There's a general and entity majority. I agree that it has been adopted, that it has been admitted to the knowledge of the Action Plan and the Work Report of the Interresor Working Group on the liberalisation of the visa regime for BiH citizens. Eh, let's go to conclusions now. We have the conclusion of Šefik Džaferović (one conclusion). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 111 27 votes "yes" (23 Federation, four RS). He doesn't have an entity majority. Let's go round two, no consent. Please prepare to vote in the second round. Vote now! Am I going to have to repeat this vote? There are no eight votes "against" and this conclusion has been adopted. Let's move on. Proposal for a second conclusion by Mr. Adem Huskić. Do you want to be individually or in a package? In the package, it's whatever. In a package. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 26 votes "yes" (20 Federation, six RS). I understand that the proposals for the conclusions of Adem Huskić were adopted. We have Husein Nanić's findings. Mr. Nanić, package or individual? It's binding on this thematic session, which is impossible for us to do. I suggest we vote individually. [[Common discussion]] Well, it's not impossible for us, anything is possible, thank you. Stand by. No, no, get ready to vote, anything's possible, everything's fine. Prepare to vote. Vote the package now, vote now. We'll do the thematic session, no problem. 24 "for" (19 Federation, five RS). I find that Husein Nanić's conclusions have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25873	Please repeat your vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25874	What? Why? You didn't vote, what? Okay. Please, at the request of Mr. Kalabić, we repeat the vote. But I'm asking you to ask for a repeat vote for really justifiable reasons. Okay, I believe. Please prepare for the vote on the proposal for a conclusion by Husein Nanić. Vote now! May I have your attention, please? 23 "for" (20 Federation, three RS). There's no consent. We are going to the second round of voting on Husein Nanić's conclusions. Prepare to vote. 112 Vote now! 11 votes "against", Husein Nanić's conclusions were not adopted. We have conclusions, two conclusions from Mr. Remzija Kadrić. Mr. Kadrić, package or individual? Package. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25875	Momčilo, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25876	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25877	I don't think these conclusions make any sense, so I answered. The Constitution states that conventions are above all domestic laws, including the Constitution itself, and I don't see how we can strengthen our convention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25878	Nothing, you vote against, Momo, and it's okay. Please prepare, please prepare for the vote. Vote now! We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion by Remzija Kadrić. 21 "for" (19 Federation, two RS). Round two. Please prepare, please prepare, we vote in the second round. My lords, prepare yourselves. Vote now! Always ready. It's all right. 22 “for, ” 10“ against. ” Remzija Kadrić's conclusions have not passed. In this way, we have completed our statement on point 3. Let's go to point 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. Please prepare to vote. First, about the request. We vote now! 28 votes "yes" (26 Federation, two RS). There's no consent. 113 Round 2. The law is in force anyway, but here we go in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 11 votes "against". The request did not receive entity support, or 11 votes were "against" and an emergency procedure request was not accepted. The law goes, it stays in force. Thank you very much. Let's go to point 5.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25879	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25880	Of course, but it's not a discussion, it's just a business intervention or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25881	I apologize for later taking some things out of these amendments and supplementing the law, and it's important.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25882	But the law is in force, Sadik. The law is in force.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25883	Wait a minute, if you don't mind. ... These supplements refer to the law that is in force. In the law which is in force, the coefficients of MPs are 0, and this, __________(?) It's not that. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25884	Okay, it's okay, Sadik.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25885	Is the 5th point of the agenda? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25886	All right, it's all right. May I have your attention, please? The man thought we were already at point five, we just finished point four. ... 114 Let's go to point 5. The request of MPs Sadik Bahtić, Lazar Prodanović and Velimir Jukić to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. Stand by, we vote! Here you go, Sadik.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25887	Is it the law now?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25888	Yeah, it's the law now, but it's really past the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25889	I'm sorry, I really don't want to be on the front page of the paper tomorrow... because later I realized some of the elements of this law. In the law that is in force, the coefficients of MPs are 0. These supplements talk about the odds that are 4.00. So is he referring to MPs or not? We can get into a situation where we vote to cut the salaries of those who are subject to the law, and our wages to stay on the same level. I mean,... the coefficients of Members of the Law on Payments in BiH institutions are 0, and in this law, which is the addition of that law, where it says...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25890	...not being treated there.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25891	...the coefficients that are in this law that are greater than 4:00. Don't, so I don't want to go to hell, no, I'll take the business opportunity, I won't vote at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25892	Please prepare to vote. Vote now on the procedure. 27 votes "yes" (20 Federation, seven RS). Request accepted. Please prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25893	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25894	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25895	Boss, business. 115
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25896	Well, sure, Šefik. I'll go back to the agenda. Here you go. Well, there's people opening up a debate about what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25897	I won't open the debate, Chairman, please. So, in order to avoid any confusion, the word of this home is last and executive. So, this law, according to the position of this House with this vote, also refers to MPs, or delegates of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. To make that clear, so to everyone and not to everyone, we're the ones who pass the law and give authentic interpretations and my colleague is right.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25898	He's wrong. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25899	Please, my colleague is right because there's a lot of stories in the hallway and he just doesn't want to talk about it, and he's looking for this. So this House says it is passing this law and it also refers to MPs, or delegates of the Parliamentary Assembly. And that they know the services.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25900	There's a lot going on in the halls. Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25901	The Honorable Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25902	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25903	in the break, I was tasked by the Finance and Budget Committee to propose to this home the following conclusion 'The Administrative Commission is in charge that the basis for the billing of Members comply with the adopted Law on the Completion of the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions'. Since there's a first vote here on the law and a conclusion, I'm counting on when we vote on the law... 116
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25904	Well, you could have delivered it to me here when we plead to put it to a vote. I ask you to give me that conclusion to read.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25905	So I couldn't give it to you until you told me that...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25906	Okay, but here's a report for the discussion, Jozo Križavnović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25907	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No need to be surprised that the debate is opening. Now, actually, it was supposed to open up a debate. We just voted on the procedure,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25908	I'm not surprised about that, go ahead. JOSO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25909	We're not about the law at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25910	Here, now you're discussing the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25911	Well, I mean, you don't need to create anxiety. It's a serious law, and I want to say something similar to what I said when I adopted the agenda. It's hard to be against this law, because here I am speaking in the SDP Club's possession, we've really advocated something more acceptable form and wage relations in this country. I will also remind you that, as a club, we have proposed that the Administrative Commission, in its jurisdiction, also consider the possibility of reduction and wages and compensation for certain costs. However, the only reserve under this law – that is what we wanted to disable this procedure – is to look at wider possibilities and possibly remove the ambiguity by applying this law. I remind myself there's already someone here, I think, talking about the fact that, by applying this law, less pay will be the one who has the 4 coefficient than the one who has the 3.9 coefficient. It's nebulose, I mean it's not, there's no reason to go hasty with a law like this. And I fully agree, and I advocate that one serious debate be opened to make it more honest, more comprehensive, more thorough, more serious, and that there is no doubt after the application of this law in its conduct. Thank you. 117
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25912	Here, I owe you an explanation, Mr. Križanović. So, why did I react? First of all, you discussed the same thing when we discussed the agenda. Yes, but you discussed it when we discussed the agenda. That's one thing. You asked for a wider debate, etc. after the notification of the procedure. Parliament has pleaded for an emergency procedure. You pointed to some things. I don't mind starting a series of initiatives, as far as I'm concerned, a series of initiatives tomorrow, wider initiatives to cut wages, I don't mind and I'll raise my hand. So, there's open space for all the extra initiatives, but it's time to go. Please prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25913	Five minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25914	Five minutes before the vote? Oh, there's no pause. [[Common discussion]] We've opened the debate, so be patient now. Yeah, well, you're all asking me to meet everyone. When I go out with someone else, don't be mad. Okay. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25917	Very short. We asked, since these MPs who warned that they had a basis for warning, I must say, the SNSD MPs' club will vote for the proposal and vote for conclusion. But this is a clear message that here the Council of Ministers has not done its job, has not done it, although it was our conclusion and a clear message that this law is not the most difficult solution, because by this vote... we are going to say it, because the Administrative Commission could have done it without the adoption of this law. And with that, I ask that we finish the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25918	I think we understand each other. Please prepare for the vote, we vote. Is there anyone else to discuss? 118
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25919	Momčilo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25920	Momčilo, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25921	Well, I just wanted to comment on this conclusion by Mr. Jasarevic. I think you should be careful, 'The Administrative Commission is in charge that the basis for the billing of Members' salaries is in line with the adopted Law on the Completion of the Law on Salaries and Receipts in BiH institutions'. I must say, for me as a member of the Administrative Commission, this is an underestimating conclusion. This mistrust that this parliament has shown to the Administrative Commission makes no sense. So, of course, I will support this on the Administrative Commission, but I will not support this conclusion because this conclusion puts me in a completely different position. So, Malten, as a matter of fact, we wouldn't be on the Administrative Commission if it wasn't for the House's conclusion. So, I'll support it in the Administrative Commission but I won't support this conclusion. I don't think it's correct for the members of the House of Representatives who are ultimately elected by the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25922	Is there more? Salko Sokolović. Well, I'm not calling you. Salko, you signed up and I see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25923	No, Šemso tells me now Salko will. I said I will, of course. And maybe a replica to Mr. Novaković. Look, the Administrative Commission is a complicated system, it's just a problem. On several occasions, the SDA has already proposed legislative solutions to change the decision that would reduce salaries to lawmakers by 20%. And it didn't work out there. I think this is a blur, and here, in fact, this law doesn't reduce the salary of the MPs, it's just keeping this foundation here. I was saying that, and on the Administrative Commission and the Administrative Commission in this composition, I would play, and here I am responsibly saying, because I know how people behave in this Administrative Commission. And this would be the smartest thing not to vote today, to think more about these solutions, because we really throw dust in people's eyes. There, I'm telling you the truth.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25924	We'll think about it by the end of the term and we won't do anything. And I like to do it in a freak way, but to cut it down, to stop this more. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! We vote on the Bill's proposal to supplement the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions. _________(?) 119 [[no microphone turned on]] Go ahead, I'm at my disposal. Say it again, not again, so here comes the man to say it again. Here, just one second. Prepare to vote. Vote, I beg you to vote on the law. Salko Sokolović just tells me again, here I repeat. And we're gonna make a little deal about this repetition. 33 votes "for"...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25926	Please, he wants Momčilo again, he thought the conclusion was voiced.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-15-0.u25927	He can do it again, of course. Go ahead and keep going. Please, just keep going, I'm at my disposal. Please prepare to vote. We're voting on the law, but this is the last time, be sure. In the future, you'll see who I'll vote on again and when I'll do it again. Prepare to vote. Vote now! We're voting on the law. Did we get away with it? We did. Something has no "against" votes. 34 votes "yes" (25 Federation, nine RS), without the vote "against", five "abstained". I agree that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Refunds was adopted in BiH institutions, proposed by Bahtić, Prodanović and Jukić. Eh, we have a proposal now. I hope you all have it on your benches. Should I read it? I don't need to. Please prepare, we vote on this conclusion. Prepare to vote on Bajazit Jašarević's Opinion proposal, concerning this law, for the agenda item. 27 votes "yes" (20 Federation, seven RS), a sufficient general and entity majority. I find that the proposal for a conclusion by Bajazit Jašarević has been adopted on the Payments Act. We're going to point six. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Excises of BiH following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. We're pleading on this request for action. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. We are voting on this request for a shortened procedure. 120 31 "for" (22 Federation, RS nine). I find that the request for a shortened procedure on the Proposal of the Excise Law has been passed. We're going to point 7. Request of the SNSD Member's Club to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. So we're voting on this request for a shortened procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 23 "for" (14 Federation, nine RS). I find that there are both general and entity majority and that the request for a brief procedure has been adopted. ...please, here we are looking at this board, we have this report, please. We're going to point 8. Confirmation of the Council of Ministers' decision to dismiss the Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport and Deputy Minister of Defence for Politics and Planning. So it's about Mr. Poljašević and Mr. Crnadk. Please prepare to vote. So we are voting to confirm the Council of Ministers' decision. Vote now! 30 votes "yes" (20 Federation, RS 10). I konstatirati that this proposal for a decision has been given to both the general and the entity majority and the decision has been confirmed. We have a proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Branko Dokić. Do you have it in front of you? Thank you. Please prepare to make a statement on Mr Dokić's proposal for a conclusion. Vote now! 27 votes "for" (19 Federation, 8 RS). I find that Branko Dokić's proposal for a conclusion has been given to both the general and the entity majority. We're going to point 9. Resolved Ivo Bradvica from the position of the Ombudsman for human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina for resigning. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! So we're voting on a resolution. 32 "for" (22 Federation, 10 RS). I find that Mr. Bradvica's resolution has been given both the general and the entity majority, and is thus resolved. Let's go to point 10. The appointment of three MPs of the House of Representatives to the Ad hoc Joint Commission for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Ombudsman for human rights in the order of the Croatian people instead of Ivo Bradvica. So Ekrem Ajanović, Drago Kalabić and Velimir Jukić were proposed. 121 Prepare to vote. We're voting on the members of this committee. Vote now! 29 votes "yes" (19 Federation, 10 RS). I find that the proposal of these members at the Ad hoc commission has been given to both the general and the entity majority. We're going to point 11. The appointment of three MPs of the House of Representatives in Ad hoc joint committee for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment: a) the Independent Committee and (b) the Committee on Appeals of Citizens as independent bodies of the police structure of BiH were proposed by Vinko Zorić, Drago Kalabić and Adem Huskić. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 30 votes "yes" (21 Federation, nine RS). I find that the proposal of these members of the Ad hoc commission has been given to both the general and the entity majority. So we're left with point 12. Giving consent to ratification... five agreements, or protocols (four agreements and one protocol) Shall we vote in the package? Should we make a statement about this? So, please let us know if we vote in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now! The proposal to vote in the package on these agreements and protocols was given to both the general and entity majority, so we will vote in the package. Do I need Rajk repeat Rajke, or do I need to read it? So, in front of you, I hope, the agenda point. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 39 votes "yes" (26 Federation, 13 RS), I conclude that the proposal for these agreements and the Protocols in point 12 has received both the general and entity majority. This way we've exhausted the agenda. I hereby conclude the work of today's 51st session and inform you that the next session will be held on 29 April. Thank you for your cooperation. Happy Vaskrs, please, happy Vaskrs to everyone, Orthodox of course. The seat is closed at 1900 hours. 122
