ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4145	I'm asking you nicely for a little more patience. The college agreed to some changes and amendments to the agenda about ten minutes ago, so we'll wait until we get this service to our benches and we'll start working. Take this apology. I suggest we start working. By the time we do the first item of the agenda, there will be a revised agenda; yes, but we can't put it on a statement. We'll wait a little longer. So we have to specify exactly what we left out and what we're putting in. Well, so we don't have the paper forest in front of us for a few more minutes. So, there are conditions that we can start working. Dear ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, the international community, media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 28th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. To conclude that there are 13 envoys present today, four of whom are present from the Bosniak people, five from the order of the Croatian people and four from the order of the Serb people. They justified their ingenuity, Mr. Tihić and Dr. Ivanić. For the session, I suggest, so agree. 1. Answers to parliamentary questions and parliamentary questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 27th session of the House of Nations; 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the attempt to reach agreement on the identical course of the Law supplementing the Law on the Public TV System of BiH; 4. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information under the Rapid Procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples; 5. A request from the House of Representatives for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of BiH following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 2 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 7. Proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's aviation (second reading), proposed by the BiH Council of Ministers; 8. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services (second reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 10. Proposal for a law and amendments to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions (second reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of BiH (second reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures (second reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 13. Proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production within the CEFTA Agreement (first reading), Proposer of the House of Representatives; 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of BiH (first reading), Proposer of the House of Representatives; 15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions (first reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 16. Proposal for a Law on the Postales of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 17. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (first reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 18. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Border Police Act (first reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 19. Proposal for a framework law on the basis of the scientific activities and the coordination of internal and international research cooperation (first reading), the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 20. Report on the work of the Committees of the People's House for 2008 (a) Constitutional Commission, (b) Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications, (c) Committee on Finance and Budget; 21. Report on the work of the Joint Committees for 2008 d) of the Joint Committee on Defence and Security of BiH, e) Joint Security and Intelligence Committee on the work of the BiH Security Agency, f) Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development, (g) Joint Committee on European Integration, (h) Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, (i) Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights, Children's Rights, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 22. Report on the work of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2008; 23. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2008, applicant State Regulatory Commission for Electricity; 3 24. Work and Business Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2007 Radio Television; 25. Report on financial operations of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Radio-Television in 2007; 26. Decision of Mr Ivo Bradvica, Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the basis of an irrevocable resignation; 27. The appointment of three envoys from the House of Peoples to the Ad hoc commission for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Ombudsman for human rights instead of Mr Ivo Bradvica; 28. The appointment of three representatives from the House of Peoples to the Ad hoc Commission for the Implementation of the Procedure for Appointing (a) The Independent Committee and (b) the Committee on Appeals of Citizens, as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure; 29. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the cross-border programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro for 2007 on the basis of the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, component II - Cross-border cooperation; 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Korea concerning the loan from the Fund to improve economic co-operation; 32. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on international road transport of persons and things; 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Moldova, Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia and the Mission for the temporary administration of the UN in Kosovo, on behalf of Kosovo, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1224 on the privileges and immunities of the Secretariat of the Agreement on Free Trade in Central Europe; 34. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty on performances and phonograms of the World Intellectual Property Organisation; 35. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty of Copyright of the World Intellectual Property Organisation; 36. Giving consent to the loan agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of the Republika Srpska and the Export-Importing Bank of Korea (Government Agency for EDCF) – The Modernisation of Hospitals in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Phase II; 37. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH and the Kingdom of Spain, represented by the Credit Institute Office – Financing of Waste Water Systems in the Municipality of Široki Brijeg; 38. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury and the Kingdom of Spain, represented by the Credit Institute Office – Funding the Water Supply System in the Municipality of Ljubuski; 4 39. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and the Kingdom of Spain represented by the Credit Institute Office – Financing the wastewater system in the municipality of Fojnica. So this is a harmonised and modified agenda that I've just read. I have to ask you if anyone's answering for a word. If not, thank you very much. Therefore, I find that the agenda has been adopted, as Article 60 does. The Rules of Procedure do not discuss, so we do not declare a harmonised agenda. We'll move to point one, that's Ad. 1. Answers to MPs' questions and questions themselves
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, therefore, with one answer I am relatively pleased and I will not comment on him. I will prokomentarisaći on this response that I have received regarding the retegorization of the Ivanica border crossing with which I am absolutely dissatisfied. Namely, the objective of my question was to initiate the Council of Ministers, to encourage him to put this issue on the agenda quickly and to resolve it no later than the beginning of the upcoming tourist season. Since... I asked the question in January of the month, so I expected this issue to be resolved no later than a month or two. Here, in this answer, I have received one finding saying that the problem of this border crossing will be at a meeting that should be held by 30. Six. Really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, I expect this issue to be resolved in haste, I expect this to be put on the agenda very quickly and brought to an end, not in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4149	Thank you very much, Mr. Šarab. Mrs Alma Čolo. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4150	Chairman, I am relatively pleased with the answer to my question, but with this question I have tried to solve the problem. So the issue concerns the status of employees in BiH institutions who do not have equal treatment when it comes to their salaries. Such an answer, which states that it is only possible to resolve this issue by harmonising the rules between entities, I cannot be fully satisfied, because that way we have not solved the problem. So, how is it possible to harmonise the regulations between the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of BiH and leave for the mercy and mercy of civil servants and employees of BiH institutions, the governments of entities that need to harmonise these regulations, so that by asking my two questions on the same subject, we have failed to resolve the problem in the BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. Dr Ivanić is not here. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome you and the co-chair, your distinguished colleagues and everyone present at this session today. The answer we have received is actually from institutions, i.e. the judicial authorities that are not in charge of ours, for my question. So I'd like to ask the service to reroute our question to the General Court in Sarajevo. If ever anything is relevant, then this is the moment that the persons with the highest posts for long-term maintenance are sentenced to be still at large.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4153	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Mrs. Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4154	Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests and respected members of the Council of Ministers, I asked a question two months ago, so to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and I really did not expect that for such an answer, which is nothing, there would be no answer, that it would take two months. The first question was: 'Is the High Court and Prosecutor's Council being examined the reference of foreign prosecutors and judges in the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the Court of BiH, and has their work being checked in the judiciary of the countries from which they come?' It is answered that the examination of the reference, i.e. the verification of their work in the judiciary of the countries from which they come, is not carried out and is not provided for in the prescribed procedure. The second question was, "Is the responsibility of prosecutor Hari Furlan questioned in the case against Prime Minister Milorad Dodik and the others and what are your findings?" And it is said that according to the provisions of the Vienna Convention, foreign judges and prosecutors are diplomatic representatives, enjoy immunity from civil and administrative responsibility and that the High Court and Prosecutorial Council has no jurisdiction to determine the responsibilities of international prosecutors. And the third question is, "Did the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council ever request and receive information from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia... on the benefits of Prosecutor Hari Furlan to perform his duties in the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, if not, when does he plan to do so?" In response, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council said that no information has been requested about the benefits of Prosecutor Furlan to perform his duties as prosecutor in the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council has no idea that the BiH Prosecutor's Office has come and that this prosecutor came after a scandal in Slovenia with the chief prosecutor of Slovenia in the Clean Lopat affair led against Slovenian Prime Borut Pahor Pahora. Now, my question that I expected to get an answer in particular in this third part is: How has Prosecutor Furlan been elected as prosecutor in the BiH Prosecutor's Office in the first place? There are four criteria on the basis of which the choice of prosecutors is being made. First, to have at least eight years of working experience in war crimes and economic crime. Others, having knowledge of international criminal law, are controversial this third and fourth. The third is proven impartiality, and the fourth is good results in earlier work. So, please, right after the Clean Lopat affair, Mr. Prosecutor Hari Furlan came to BiH and went through these four criteria and got a job at the prosecutor's post and is doing a new case on the same branch, according to the same matrix he worked on and the one he ran in Slovenia. So, in the same way, he tried to discredit the Slovenian prime minister, and now he does the same thing with the RS prime minister. What exactly am I trying to say? This is another evidence of what kind of country we live in and which are the main actors in the BiH judiciary, and this is another reason why Serbian representatives will not give consent to extend work in the BiH institutions of foreign judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4155	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Dr. Hilmo Neimarlija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4156	The chairman, vice-president, fellow delegates, guests, I have received an answer to a question that I am naturally completely dissatisfied with, as it is a partial answer to a secondary part of my question. And my question was: "When will Fata Orlović of Konjević Field finally be able, when will she finally be returned to her property and the fundamental human right of uninterrupted use of the house and garden and when will she end up institutionally harassing this defiled victim?" And as an example of this abuse, I cited the fact that she was tried in Bijeljina and was convicted in a procedure she was not even informed of. 7 I received a reply from the minister of justice of the RS who informed me that he had received information from the Court of Justice from Bijeljina that it was a famous trial, which the accused was not even invited to, was now forwarded to a higher court and that they could not, as a result, be affected by the court, as if to make a statement. So I'm completely dissatisfied with the answer and I'm now, without any arguments that are clearly used here to avoid the right answer, the question will repeat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4157	Thank you very much, Professor Neimarlija. With this, we exhausted a list of those who received answers. I'm sorry that the largest number of these answers is such that the MPs are unhappy, but hope for better answers, so you'll be happy next time. We are moving on to new parliamentary/negotiation issues. Mr. Šaraba first reported, Adem Ibrahimpašić the second, third Professor Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4158	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4159	You wanna get involved, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4160	So I'll do it again. I refer my question to the Ministry of Defence, to the Minister's hands, and it says, "Why didn't the Ministry of Defence subsequently review its decision to send troops to Georgia after tragic conflicts occurred in the former Soviet Republic in August of last year?" My argument is based on the fact that I believe that after this decision, there will be a violation of the good relations BiH has with Russia, and we have witnessed this because of comments that have appeared in the media lately. I believe that it is time for the Ministry of Defence to review this decision once again, I believe that there is time and space for this to carry out consultations with the most important political factors in BiH and, of course, I suggest that it ultimately make a decision not to refer these 17 soldiers to the exercise that will take place in Georgia from 10 May to 29 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4161	Thank you very much, Mr. Šarab. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4162	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and guests, just to remind you, before I ask the question. At last session of the House, I received an answer to a question asked on March 23rd. The question was: 'When will the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations or act at the request of the BiH Beer Industry Committee or reject it, and it was an excessive import and protection of domestic production from collapse. I then received the answer, and I pointed out that there are no points 2.3, 2.4, and 2.5 missing in that answer. So, last time I said it, there was a promise that I would complete it. However, as it is not, so I have 2.1, 2.2, and then I don't have 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, but I have 2.6, 2.7, and 2.8. So my question to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations reads: 'In response to my question received in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly 23. 3. In 2009, points 2.3, 2.4 and 2.5 were missing. The question was received under number 02-50-1-16-26/09. Please answer me what in those points, which obviously should have been an integral part of the answer to my question, stands? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4164	My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers: 'I ask the Council of Ministers to provide me with precise information on the national structure of state officials in all nine ministries of the Council of Ministers. Individual and total data per national structure in ministries should include: secretaries, secretaries with special task and ministerial assistants. I pray the answer in writing." This is one question. Secondly, I would like to remind you that the House of Nations is in session of 29. 1. In 2009, it unanimously reached a conclusion requiring the Ministry of Transport and Communications to submit within 15 days to the House of Peoples full of information on criteria, procedures and how to distribute CEMT licences to domestic carriers. You remember how much we talked about it and how much we were all against it: come on, let the Ministry deliver first, and then we'll see if there's any guilt, and then we'll lead to the formation of the Ad hoc commission and we'll continue in that direction. However, here's how long it's been, so 29, almost three months, the Ministry didn't find it appropriate to answer the question at all, and since that deadline has been almost three months, here in two days, there will be this, please, the Council of Ministers Chairman, to allow, through the Ministry of Transport and Communication, full information on the criteria, procedures and method of distribution of CEMT licences for 2009 to domestic carriers. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4165	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Professor Neimarlija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4166	I refer my question to the prime minister, the minister of justice and the minister of refugees in the RS government. The question is: "When will Fati Orlović of Konjević Polje be returned to property and the fundamental human right of uninterrupted use of his own house and garden?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4167	Thank you very much. I've got a exhausted list of people reported. Mr. Jović, come in. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4168	Thank you very much. Although, Mr. President, at the time I was talking about the receipt of the answer, I said that we would renew the question, so here for the phonograms, I am renewing the question to the Municipal Court in Sarajevo: "When will the persons who have been convicted of war crimes for 13 years be in prison?"
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4169	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Is there anyone else in need? I'm closing item one on the agenda. Moving to point 2. Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 27th session of the House of Peoples I'm asking, are there any interested parties in the debate? I'm closing the debate. I'll put it on the record for the 27th session. Who's "for" the record? I agree that we unanimously accepted the 27th session. Moving to point 3. 10 Ad. 3. Report by the Joint Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Public TV System of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4172	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present colleagues and guests to today's session of the House of Peoples. Here, as you said in the opening section, the Joint Commission unanimously accepted this amendment in the sense that, apart from the blind and deaf persons, they were released as the owners of the receivers, who permanently lost sight or hearing or living alone in the household or with the guardian, i.e. Paying a tv fee. I think that this amendment is fully accepted and, on the other hand, the Commission unanimously proposed to the House of Peoples to accept such a position and the opinion of the Joint Commission. Likewise, amandman II.. concerning the obligation of the Council of Ministers to provide in the budget the funds of the BiH institution in the amount of the reduced revenues of the Public TV System of BiH due to this release and payment of the TV fee, the non-payment of the TV fee of the recipient's position (1) of this member, the means of compensation for the income of the Public TV system BiH will be paid to the Single Account, in accordance with Article 23(1) of this Law. So it is proposed that the dom accept the Joint Commission's report. I don't think there's a single reason Dom doesn't do that. Therefore, as a member of this committee for harmonising amendments to the text of the proposed law... accept in the text as proposed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4173	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. So, just to be clear, we've had the debate, and we can only plead on the Joint Committee's report. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement to the Joint Commission's report. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? 11 One vote “against, ” the rest“ for. ” I agree that we have accepted the Joint Commission's report, with one vote "against". Moving to point 4, that's "Ad." 4. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information by the Rapid Procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples The proposer of this bill is the House of Representatives. It's decided without debate, we know that. I call upon the motionary's representative to take his word. Does the Proposer want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4175	You have before you this law, amendments and additions to the Freedom of Access Act. The idea to propose this law expired in the session, at a joint session of the Investigation Commission established by the House of Representatives to determine the fate of the donations it received from BiH for reconstruction and reconstruction from 1996 to 2009. And when we talked about this topic,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4176	Could you speak up a little bit, we can't hear anything in the back.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4177	We have seen that there are here in this law of inadequacy when it comes to sanctions for those who do not provide information. I would like to say... that this law, or proposal... has been adopted unanimously by the Commission's own eight members. The truth is, we didn't discuss whether we were going to go into this brief procedure, an emergency procedure, or a regular procedure. After that, and that was why there was little clarity at the House of Representatives, that this commission... when we discussed this topic, we again concluded that we needed this law. I'm not gonna take up your time to read what's in the Reason, but I just want to say two more sentences for a little while. ... The first sentence is that we need this law very much, and we need these amendments and additions to this law very much, because if we do not have this law today in this House, be aware of the fact that you are taking over part of the responsibility for slowing down or disabling the work of such a significant investigative commission because, finally, the interest of this Parliament is to get as soon as possible to the law and to create the necessary assumptions that the law is effectively implemented. 12 Second,... on some of those objections that possibly something in the law should be fixed, it is concluded, it is our decision to make it work at some later stage of the amendments, although we think the law is good, I think the law is good and that it should be adopted. And thirdly, one brief objection was before this House session, that it was not specified who would enforce this law. I think it is because this parliament has adopted, this House has adopted the Law on Infractions and if it is about fines for the offence, of course, that it will be carried out by courts for violations, and not by other courts, because it would now open the topic... of great importance of the legal system, and you see every day that, for example, for some organised crime by some Director of Agrokomerac of Velika Kladua, where he has embezzled on the charges of 5,000 marks, the Court of Justice of BiH, and for example, for Energoinvest... where a billion marks are concerned, as prosecutors claim, are headed by the Cantonal Court. So, I think that... this kind of observation just serves and as it could only serve as an excuse and I think that after this explanation that the thing is clear and I am calling you and asking you to adopt this law today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4178	Thank you very much, Mr. Sefer Halilović. So now we're having a debate whether or not we're going to have this law in a hurry. So we're only discussing the procedure. I've released an authorised proposing representative so he doesn't go out twice to talk about details, but I'd like to ask you now to discuss the procedure. We'll make a statement about the procedure, and then we'll discuss the details. Anyone else want to talk about the procedure? Here you go, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here, even though I was trying to figure out the reasons why this law is being considered today by an urgent procedure, I didn't get a valid explanation. And I really don't think there are any valid reasons for us to consider this law as an emergency procedure. This law applies for nine years, and nine years later the proposal comes to consider the law by emergency procedure only because there is no effective mechanism for the application of this law. Please, so this is not a valid explanation for me to consider this law today and adopt an emergency procedure. I personally think it should be adopted in a regular procedure. Maybe besides this reason that's listed here, which is personally acceptable to me, there are other reasons. Therefore, this law should be thoroughly considered in a normal, regular procedure, since the law has been in force for nine years. So, I don't think there are any grounds for applying Article 122 on the basis of which we are considering this law. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4180	Thank you, Mr. Šarabi, for a very precise statement. Anyone else want to talk about the procedure? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the motion to vote to discuss this law, so by a hasty procedure. Who is “for ” the proposal to be in accordance with Article 122? Please make a statement. Who Is “against ”? One vote “against ” and 12“ for. ” So I apologize, 11 “for, ” 10 “for. ” We have two “abstained ” and one“ against. ” 10 votes "yes", so we received support for the rush procedure. There is no amendment in the urgent procedure. The amendments don't apply, and now I'm opening a debate on the bill. Who wants a word? Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4181	So my comment on this law goes in the direction that in this country there are too many laws that are passed this way, quickly, unsystematically, inconsumptively, but in haste and the consequences are constantly borne. We have a lot of laws... that are hard to apply, and this law could be classified into that group, because it's very difficult to apply, because it lacks some basic elements. First, it appears that the law was done quickly, and in its very name, 'The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information' was left out in BiH, since we also have entity laws. Then I think here in the title to leave out the country to which this applies is so recklessly so that this is too significant a law for such recklessness. Another thing that is even more important: the proposed law does not determine who is responsible for overseeing the implementation of this law, in which way these harsh penalties are written (in Croatia there are 27,000 for a public institution or a legal person, and we know what the standard of Croatia is, and in BiH this is approximately) for a natural person that is up to 10,000. These are very high amounts compared to BiH. Therefore, I do not think that this law has established two-stage work, and the existing procedure for the exercise of the right of access to information is implemented in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act (the Official Messenger 29/02 and 12/04), and thus the protection of the rights of parties, i.e. the applicant for access to information. Also, the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH left the possibility for the applicant to protect his rights, protect his rights by submitting a legal remedy to the competent authority of the administration and the court, in accordance with Article 23(2). The law. Since it is a small law, given the need to pay due attention to it, the SNSD at the Serbian People's Club will not support the law. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4182	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the argument if no one wants a word. I would like to put forward a statement on the proposal for this urgent procedure law, so how was it explained by the authorising officer and how we received it. Who's "for"? Four votes "yes". Who Is “against ”? Six. Who is “abstained ”? Three are "abstained". This bill didn't go through. Moving to point 5. Ad. 5. A request from the House of Representatives to discuss draft law on the completion of the Law on Salary and Refunds in BiH institutions following a hasty procedure Also, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the proposer of this bill, is the House of Representatives. We can decide according to this request after the debate has been held. I will, before I open the debate, ask if anyone from the Council of Ministers wants to give a shorter introduction... from the House of Representatives, excuse me, because it came from the House of Representatives, very briefly, very briefly. This is about a bill that stops the increase of the basis for state budget users to a certain level that includes both MPs and ministers to a coefficient of 4 and over 4. There will be no growth, there will be no growth of the base, as we call it, so the salary growth stops for those who have high coefficients. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Who wants to talk about procedure? I'm closing the debate. I'm making a statement that we accept this bill by hasty... procedure. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accept the procedure to pass this law by haste procedure, so no amendments. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want a word? Mr. Rajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues present at this session today. 15 Well, as a member of the Joint Administrative Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I am aware of this initiative to amend and supplement the Law on the salaries of beneficiaries of the state budget for the reason that we have witnessed that in recent months there has been strong public pressure and according to this commission and to Parliament as a whole to take some of the measures that would show that Parliament, the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and other institutions of the state service have a sense of solidarity with the people of the country who live. We are in this sense, I just want that information to be completed, in this sense, the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs has sent a request to the Council of Ministers to adopt a full programme of measures to combat the consequences of the economic crisis, namely the measures of recession in BiH, which will include austerity measures, of course, and in the context of these austerity measures and measures to correct the receipt of all users of the state budget, which does not mean linearly that all should be covered, but all categories should be covered. Unfortunately, until today, we have not received any feedback on whether the Council of Ministers has done anything on this one general project, except this. I welcome this and what's come to this, we're going to, I'm convinced, today unanimously and accept it at this home. We will surely take further steps in the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly concerning the rights of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4185	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. These initiatives on the Joint Administrative Commission have already started, we just voted them out, I believe we'll bring them to an end. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill. Who is "for" such a proposal for a law supplementing the Payments Act? Does anyone have “against, ”“ abstention ”? I agree that we unanimously accepted the proposed Law on the Completion of the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions following a hasty procedure. We're going to point six, that's ad. Six. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You have received a report from the relevant committee and the commission has accepted the draft law with one amendment. The House of Representatives also adopted the proposal for a law with the same text of amendments. Now I give my word to the legislator of the bill, if he is present and wants a word. Here you go, Minister Zirojević. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4187	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the basic reason for the adoption of this law is the need to provide our sugar processors with the same or approximately the same conditions as those in the country in the environment, above all. The situation is such that BiH does not have enough sugar and sugar cane necessary for the production of refined sugar, and our processors must have these needs, i.e. that quantity of goods, which is about 160,000 tonnes a year, in the last three years, to look for it in CEFTA countries where the same situation is, there is not enough of this kind of goods, or in EU countries and third countries with which BiH has not signed a Free Trade Agreement. If our processors decide to obtain that sugar in countries with which BiH does not have a Free Trade Agreement, the entry of that type of goods implies a payment of the customs duty of 10% and 1% of the customs registration. In particular, the same situation should this type of goods be obtained from the EU because the Stabilisation Agreement, i.e. the Interim Agreement, does not provide for any concession for that type of goods. So the same thing is paid for customs at 10%. Now, can you imagine, in such a situation, our domestic producers if, for re-promaterial, for raw materials, they have to pay 10% of customs duties, and anyone from BiH can go to any country of CEFTA and order and introduce any amount of sugar and do not pay a single brand of denominations introduced?- I'm sorry. The law is very short, clear, is in line with EU rules. What we are proposing for the EU, this is about millions of tons of sugar, sugar cane that Europe imports from India. This is also done by neighbouring Croatia to occasionally stimulate its sugar processors, although it has developed sugar and sugar beets. It is also important to note that the goods imported in this way, that is the quota... the favourable tariff procedure is under customs supervision. The indirect taxation administration has a quality system, an information system that monitors all these quantities of imported goods, not only sugar, but all of these other types of goods imported in this way. So, when entering the customs territory of BiH, goods are placed under customs supervision, it points to a certain customs facility. It is provided for when entering the border area of BiH by a guarantee of a commercial bank at the level of the billable debt. In a specific customs situation, it is due in a way that the Administration of Directly finds that it has been used in the manner for which it has been imported, or produced. If there are any manipulations and unauthorized possessions of goods, the customs debt from the guarantee of a commercial bank is automatically charged. That's about what I wanted to say briefly about this short bill, it's really a valid explanation. It's clear to all of us that our producers are in an unfavourable position. It is, therefore, 50,000 tonnes of quota, only a third of BiH's needs for this kind of goods, so I suggest you pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4188	Thank you very much, Mr. Zirojević. Is there a need for Mrs Alma Čolo on behalf of the Committee to say something? 17
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4189	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4190	Thank you very much. So, we received the report. You have nothing to add. I'm opening a debate on this bill. Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, as the minister said, this law is short and clear and I think the text of the law clearly states that it should not be adopted and that it should be rejected. What are the reasons for that? In the last 15 days in the paper I have read and read a lot of texts about this law and the fact that by adopting this law, the Refinery of sugar from Brcko, called Studen-Agran, will allow it to benefit, of course, beyond the current rules, in the amount of 6 million marks, if that is indeed true, and I want to believe that it is indeed true. Listening to all the different stories that have been upgraded to this, then I call on my distinguished SNSD colleagues not to vote in favour of this law and thus to allow that money to come to the BiH budget and of course to the RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4192	Thank you very much. Minister Zirojević needs to react. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4193	In my first address, I didn't look back on these media speculations that this is about someone trying to help, going out to meet that way, and that's absolutely not true what you said. For the purposes of the quotas, where a specific quota is to be opened or approved, the transport of goods of any kind, the indirect taxation administration shall have in its server the data for the total quantity of goods imported on that basis. And any sugar producer, first to address the request, removes a certain quantity. Then how can only one importer be granted that, here, tariff percentage? It's just been the case so far with the ASA car, or the Prevent, and there weren't so many violent reactions, I don't know what the reason is here. So any sugar can turn around, take down a certain amount until it's fully exploited. That's the way it is with meat. And now all of a sudden speculation as someone is going to meet, that is, one economic entity, and it will make extra profits. Absolutely incorrect.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4194	Thank you very much, Mr. Zirojević. Wait a minute. Replica, Mr. Šaraba; discussion, Mr. Ljubičić. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, distinguished and esteemed ministers, time will show, so let's just stay and see. Of course, we'll meet here and see who's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4196	Excuse me, Mr. Ljubičić, may I have a moment, Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić has asked for a word before, and then Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4197	Here, from the beginning around this, there's some controversy, there-there. It's about undefined sugar and cane. Sugar from the cane is much cheaper than sugar from the sugar beet. People made this refinery with us, I think they did a good job, and why don't we blow some sail, adopt what we're talking about. What's wrong if they make money? What's wrong? So we can't not react like, I don't know, he... so you shouldn't give him that money. They're starting to work with it, and I think it's good to give it to them. After all, this is a contingent and Europe has a customs duty on this 10% sugar, but it also gives contingents to some countries it thinks it should give. That's why it's me. For the first time, people are starting to work, so let's give people a vote so that we can blow them in the sails. How dare you, yes, and why not?- I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4198	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubičić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4199	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidency, colleagues and fellow delegates and gentlemen ministers, the other distinguished guests, I will be brief. For me, it is sufficient to explain the Secretary-General and I will only say briefly that SNSD delegates at the Serbian Club will support this law. I wouldn't go into any comments, I wouldn't go into any speculation in the press, so for me, this explanation is enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4200	Thank you very much. We're way too early to run a campaign and there's a lot of choices. Anyone else want a word on this agenda point? I'm closing the debate. I am putting on the statement of the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act. Who's "for"? Who Is “against ”? 19 “Contained ”? So, with one vote "against", we adopted the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act. Moving to point 7. The proposal for the BiH Air Force Law (second reading), Proposer: The Council of Ministers of BiH warns me that we had one conclusion from the Commission with this point that we voted before the debate on point 7 to declare the conclusion of the Commission. Who is "for" the Commission's proposal? Please, does anyone have a "against"? In an identical way, so with one voice “against, ” we also accepted the Commission’s proposal for a conclusion. We're going, so on point 7, that's ad. Seven. Proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's aviation (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers. The commission, considering the bill, accepted 27 amendments. The House of Representatives adopted the proposal for a law with identical amendments in the same amount, so with 27 amendments. I'd like to give my word to the chairman of Mrs. Čolo's commission to get us into the story. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4202	Thank you, Chairman. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication which discussed this law in phase 15. 4. In 2009. Amendments to the law were made by Mr Zoran Koprivica and Mr Rudo Vidović. The Commission considered the amendments submitted in detail and supported all 27 amendments. We have found that the law, and it is one of the amendments, is in line with the Chicago Convention, standards, recommended practice and procedures issued in accordance with this Convention, as well as the EU regulations contained in the multilateral agreement establishing the Common European Aviation Area. We think this law will improve the area of air traffic control over BiH and we propose that the House support this law because the law has passed the procedure and at the House of Representatives of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4203	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. I'm opening a debate and I'm asking who wants a word? Mr. Rudo Vidović, please. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4204	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I welcome my colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the Council of Ministers. Of course, I also need to be a member of the committee responsible who participated, here, in the debate and in the commission phase, therefore in the phase of the commission in this law and, behold, as one of the representatives who tabled certain amendments and, of course, after all these discussions, as one of the people who supported the report of this committee. But what I find important to say is what motivated me to submit amendments that I didn't renew on the House, but I think they deserve attention, to say one main reason why I was actually being run by and that I think this law would be improved, and all in order, is whether, invigorating this law that BiH needs. We have heard a lot about this, the official promoter has respected a lot of these remarks, therefore both professional and competent institutions and European standards, of course and existing our legal solutions, but what has fallen into my eyes is actually defining the mandate of the Director General and Deputy Directors-General, therefore which must be of three constituent peoples. I received an explanation from a lawyer who interpreted it as in accordance with the State Service Act, and in law it was said to be civil servants. It is illogical for me that such an important directorate, so the BiH Aviation Directorate can have a director-general and two deputies for the next 25 years, so for tens of years. I have invested my amendment in this direction to limit the term of office to four years in Article 10, since it is logical for such directorates. This amendment of course did not go to the Committee, and I, not questioning whether, therefore, the adoption of this law, I was revoted, I did not invest it again today, but I think, here, I need to present it here at Parliament as important. Time will show that it can happen in that directorate that someone is elected over the next 20 years, and this law will provide him with the possibility, even more, whether, until retirement, to give him the opportunity to act,... a possible solution to the way he chooses, and it can actually lead to a situation where a national structure has to be guided that someone from a nation, who is elected to that function, remains for many years. Here, so I've felt, and other reasons for the other amendments that I've given up, of course I don't want to talk today. They are respected as such and in the same text, of course I will support, without questioning this law, but I felt the need to say, here are my reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidović. So, I'll say another finding. So, despite so many amendments, we've got one consistent bill. I'd love to, it's good for this information that we've received, I believe it will serve in future changes and additions, and it probably doesn't have the ideal law, because this one won't even experience its end so it doesn't change a few times, it's-it's our practice. It's a good thing you warned us and didn't exhaust ourselves on amendments we didn't renew, which fell in the commission phase. Mr. Koprivica picked up the phone. Here you go. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll just take a moment, not to repeat what we've already heard when it comes to this law. As is known, at the 94th session, held in October 2005, the Council of Ministers adopted the Strategy for the Development of the Air Traffic Management System in BiH and realisation and the Strategy should ensure full takeover of air traffic control over BiH by BiH institutions and the suspension of the need to hire agencies to provide services and fly control for neighbouring countries, Croatia, Serbia, etc. I would not comment further on what we heard or repeated what we heard from the President of the Commission, or Mr Vidović. The amendments adopted at the House of Representatives are also the subject of our today's decision. In the same text, I propose that we adopt these amendments, i.e. the Commission's report and finally get this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4207	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on the statement of the Air Force Bill, with amendments that are part of this text. He's identical to the one adopted in the House of Representatives. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? I therefore conclude that with one vote "against" and 12 votes "for" we have adopted the BiH Aviation Law proposal. Moving to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The commission adopted the 10-amendments draft law and proposed that the House of Representatives adopt this law, with the proposed amendments and one conclusion. I warn you that the House of Representatives has adopted this law with seven amendments and that by accepting the Report of our committee, we will have to appoint the Committee for the Consentation of these two texts. Does Mrs. Čolo want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4209	Well, I don't know if there's any need. We were also at the same session when we discussed the draft aviation law also discussed the proposal for a law on the Agency for the provision of services in the air navigation. We had amendments to Mrs Dušanka Majkić, Zoran Koprivica and 22 Mr. Vidović. We are aware that the House of Representatives has not adopted all these amendments, but in the presence of the legislator, we have agreed these three additional amendments, so a total of 10 amendments have been adopted. In addition to certain transformations of the proposed amendments, the Proposer agreed to accept them as amendments to the Commission and become an integral part of the law. I would like to note that this law actually implements the BiH Council of Ministers' Strategy on air traffic management. And, BiH, which currently pays about two-thirds of the total amount of money realised annually to provide air navigation services to Serbia and Croatia, would include a total amount of 30 million marks in Budget BiH and we believe that the adoption of this law is a positive shift in the implementation of the Civil Aviation Act in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4210	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I suggest we also approach the statement on the proposal for a law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services. Who's "for"? Is there someone “against ”? One voice “against. ” "Restraint" is not available. So I agree that we have adopted the proposal for a law on the Agency to provide air navigation services. We also have this one conclusion: 'The people's home requires urgent access to the implementation of the Council of Ministers' conclusions of the 60th session, held on 25 September 2008, which were adopted under the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services and no later than 60 days after the adoption of the law.' So that's the Commission's proposal for a conclusion. Who is "for" this conclusion? Please make a statement. Who Is “against ”? "Contained"? I therefore conclude that, with one vote, we have also accepted the proposal for a conclusion. As we have adopted this law, I would congratulate all those who have worked on the proposal and one law and another, on a well done job, because for the first time we have received such laws in BiH, and as we have different texts, the text of the Representative and our Law on the Agency, I have here a candidate from the order of the Croatian and Serbian people. I'm asking a candidate from the Bosniak people for a match.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4211	Mr Ibrahimpašić Adem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4212	Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. Mr. Rudo Vidović is from the order of the Croatian people,... so it is agreed at the Club, and agreed with Mr. Rud, and Mr. Zoran Koprivica, I received a tip that this was established at the Club of the Serbian People. So, I find that 23 is our Committee for Harmonising the Variety of Texts: Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić of the Bosniak Order, Mr. Rudo Vidović of the Order of the Croatian and Mr. Zoran Koprivica of the Order of the Serbian People. That concludes the point of the 8th agenda. We're going to point nine, that's ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Ministry Act and other bodies (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You've received a report from the Constitutional Commission. The Commission accepted the draft law in the proposed text and the House of Representatives also adopted the draft law in the proposed text. Is there a need, chairman of the Constitutional Commission, to say something? There isn't. Proposer of law? There isn't. I'm opening the debate. I'm asking the MPs if anyone wants a word. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the draft law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration. Who's "for"? I understand the opposition has joined. We unanimously accepted the bill. So, Mrs. Dušanka Majkić is begging for a 15-minute break. It's a 15-minute stop. If we're going to get to the bottom of this, we're in the hall exactly 15 to 1 o'clock, we're going to start working. Thank you very much. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4215	Here, I just want to say that I've been looking for a break for consultations on one of the next points, so we've completed our consultations and we can approach the vote for that point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4216	Thank you very much. So let's go to point 10. 24 Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH Institutions (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH In the second reading, we have a debate on amendments. You've received a report from the Constitutional Commission. I don't know... Mr. Jović doesn't have anyone from the service to invite Mr. Jović to the hall. We'll wait for him for a while. There's no Mr. Jović. I'll keep working. The House of Representatives passed this law with 12 amendments. We have on the Constitutional Legal Committee accepted, because Professor Neimarlija submitted 12 amendments to the Bill's proposal, we have two renewed amendments to Mr Zoran Koprivica. Mr. Neimarlija is also, so in the reminder is a mistake but I saw that they are in materials, so he has also been restored. Perhaps we should hear the amendment's promoters: Mr. Neimarlija, first, then Mr. Koprivica. Here you go, Professor Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4218	So, the amendments that I have proposed are identical with the amendments adopted in the House of Representatives, in fact with them this law gets an identical form of the one in which it was adopted in the House of Representatives and I call on my colleagues to accept these amendments and thus avoid any additional procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4219	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivica: Two renewed amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, as we have heard, in the current procedure of amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, the House of Representatives adopted the amendments mentioned by Mr Neimarlija and they are the subject of discussion at this session today, and the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples has not adopted the two amendments that I have tabled to this law. I hereby inform those present of the second amendment concerning the assessment of the work, saying: 'If during the overall duration of the employment twice the labour rating is negative, the civil servant and the managing civil servant is relieved of his duties', I am giving up that amendment, but I remain with this first amendment, which reads as 'Article 3'. where the exemption is discussed, 'in the position (2), the Secretary-General of the House and the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH shall add a point and a word to the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers, the Secretary-General of the Presidency, the Secretaries of the Ministry and the Assistants of the Offices of Directorates and agencies, the selection procedure, the mandate and all other necessary details of the 25 working engagement and the status of the right and obligations of the persons referred to in the position (2) shall be determined by other acts. The other text of the law is aligned with the above mentioned.' When I proposed this amendment, first of all I meant the following. In addition to the exemption in the application of the Law on State Service to Home Secretarys and Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (they are elected every four years and do not belong as such to state officials but appointed officials) the secretary of ministries and assistants of the law does not regulate the choice, rights and obligations of the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers and of the Presidency, the secretaries of ministries and assistants. Namely, the abovementioned persons have been ranked as state officials so far and have not been elected for the term of office. The introduction of the mandate and those functions would establish the principle of responsibility, i.e. those persons would be appointed as members of the Bureau, i.e. the Council of Ministers, or ministers. It is impossible to have an effective state service with always the same executives who, once appointed, remain without restrictions. So we have an absurd situation that the minister has assistants and secretaries that he has found and in no way can affect their choice or their work. And it's no accident that individuals on that basis comment: the ministers are coming and going, and we're staying. In such an environment, when they are aware that they have a permanent job and do not depend on the mandate and re-election, individual secretaries and assistants do not even bother to give maximum attention to their daily engagement, are aware of the low likelihood of sanctions. Ministers are so bound by the State Service Act, they simply can't choose their associates, how to run the ministries. Thus, this amendment provides for the possibility for the Council of Ministers to resolve the choice, mandate, rights and responsibilities of those persons by means of its acts and other acts. From amandman II.. I, as I said earlier, gave up, and I propose to the House to plead by amandman I.. I misliti he has his full purpose and his justification and I suggest that the same amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4221	Thank you very much. Here, we've also heard of Professor Neimarlija and Mr. Koprivica. So, let me just say it. So, you're staying with amandman I. and you're withdrawing amandman II.. I'm opening a further discussion. Who wants a word? Mr. Rajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am a little disappointed not only in this point but also in some other points when I see the views of the competent committees of this home and of the joint committees. We are very inconsistencies with agenda points and we have no criteria. In one case, we accept the amendments, and in the other case we refuse. I am truly surprised that no one has seen the political reasons to consider and accept this amendment by my colleagues, Koprivice. 26 We know the structure, called the popular alliance, imposed a state in a country where the political will of the electorate can never be materialized. We have been put in a position to paralyze life and prevent political responsibility for leading the most important affairs in the country and for the future of people living in this country, and taken away in such a way that we have declared sacred cows and untouchable so-called. A category of civil servants who are immeasurable and you can change a dozen ministers in the Council of Ministers or by several ministers in other governments that exist in this country, everything else is untouchable, and then the existing apparatus dictates all conditions and they are eternal as Mr Rudo said in the previous point and someone else mentioned, Rudo Vidović mentioned that these categories are untouchable, so we will choose people with a life term. It reminds me of one of the leaders of a country that we all remembered, who was for life, and even, posthumously, was the president of all of us. So, I am in favour of supporting this amendment by Mr. Koprivica, and to intervene in the Law on State Service, so that the political structures, which receive the mandate to run the business in this country, can intervene and that the environment in which they work, governments and entities and counties and BiH, finally assume political responsibility with the staff that corresponds to their political projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4223	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Who wants another word? Mr. Rudo Vidović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4224	Thank you, Mr. President. So, on the trail of what the esteemed colleague Božo Rajić said, it is related to a statement by the Constitutional Commission that did not support these amendments. Since the representatives of the Council of Ministers who know this issue are sitting here, I would ask someone, I think it's a minister of justice or someone else - an explanation, because the clarifications we had in the Constitutional Commission's determination actually disagreed with the thinking that, at this point, here I am presenting them, and what I was just talking about was one of the directorates. Well, I'd like to pray at this point, so since the amendment is being renewed, the representatives of the competent ministry, see if this kind of amendment is acceptable, and in fact whether it will go into what we're told would not be acceptable for the functioning of the state administration when we decided on the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4225	Thank you very much. We will wear out the demands of the debate counsel, and then, if it assesses what is needed, the Honorable Justice Minister will get his word. Who wants another word? Does Mr. Čolak feel the need? Here you go. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4226	Mr. Chairman, esteemed envoys and envoys of the House of Peoples, here we have indeed tried this law, by my deep conviction, to a good degree to improve the work of the State Service. As far as we've done or haven't, here's to you as well as the MPs of the House of Representatives to evaluate it. I can't get into the assessment now if it can be intervened where the current change is, so the current one hasn't intervened. I got that argument at the House of Representatives. I leave it to you, that is, to the envoys. I can tell you that we have dealt with these issues and precisely these amendments that Mr. Koprivica proposed several times at the Council session and we appreciated that we should go a little deeper into the amendments and additions to this law. However, simply, through the making of the law itself, through the confrontation of opinions, we have estimated that it is realistic that at this point, we can achieve this degree that we have achieved. I know that a significant number of these remarks, i.e. repairs or amendments in the House of Representatives, have been accepted, even one change that we appreciated that it would be necessary to make in the sense that the institution still has little more influence on the choice of civil servants in that rotation two, or three, is the institution on the one hand, the agency on the other – has not passed and simply here we now have a situation of the kind we have. There are always two opinions: one that explains because of the professionalism and the state service that should be, whether, professionally, it is better to have a longer period of time for individuals who perform and who are in those positions, on the other hand, the argument that the esteemed envoys have now highlighted. So it's up to you to decide. I'd just like to warn you of one thing, of course, if I can do it from this place, make sure the law doesn't fall. I think there's a lot of good stuff and it would be very harmful if the law, therefore as such, didn't pass, and everything else, of course, I leave it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4227	Thank you very much, Minister Čolak. He made it perfectly clear and precise, so it's up to us to decide. This is the House that accepts or rejects amendments, and laws, and proposals, and all the acts, and all the other acts that are in the agenda, and I didn't expect the Minister here to give us the recipe in which we will be treated. We have before us 12 amendments to the esteemed Professor Neimarlija that are identical to the amendments to this law in the House of Representatives. And we have renewed, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the powers of each of us, two amendments have been renewed that have not received support from the relevant committee, in the relevant committee, which are now in front of us. And that one, because the other was withdrawn, so amandman II.. It's been withdrawn. So I'm not closing the debate. If there is a need for any of the representatives to say anything; if not, we will first declare the amendments of Professor Neimarlija. I want to ask you one more time who wants to, and does anyone else need to take a word? So, I'm closing the debate and I suggest that we decide on 12 amendments, starting with the first final with the 12th, in the package, or you want one at a time. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4228	In a package.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4229	So, package. So I'm putting the package of amendments I to finalise with XII. By amendment of Professor Neimarlija. Who is "for" this proposal? I agree that we unanimously accepted the 12 amendments of Professor Neimarlija. We now have amandman I. to Article 3 (2) of Mr. Koprivica. Should we read it, do we all have it in front of us? You don't have to read it. I'm also putting Mr. Zoran Koprivica's amendment. Who is "for" this amendment? That's two, four, eight, nine. Who is “against ” that amendment? One and three and four and five. So we don't have room for a match right now, because we don't; no, we have an entity majority. amandman I. has passed. So we have an entity majority in the RS and we have an entity majority, four votes in the Federation. amandman I. has received support. Moving to the point... Excuse me, we are now voting on the law as a whole, with the amendments accepted. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? One “against. ” ... one "abstained". We adopted the proposed law, proposed by the amendments, with 11 votes "for", one "against" and one "abstained". As we have now received this law in a different text compared to the House of Representatives, we should also have a Committee of Consents which will determine, therefore, also the Commission and the Representatives. I ask the presidents of the clubs to make proposals to bring this text into line with the Joint Committee. The Bošnjak Club: Professor Neimarli of the Bosniak Club. From the Croatian People's Club: Mr Ivo Miro Jović. From the Serbian People's Club: Mrs Dušanka Majkić. So, Professor Neimarlija, Mr Ivo Miro Jović and Mrs Dušanka Majkić are members of the Committee for Consensus with the House of Representatives. So, do everything you can to make sure the law doesn't fall and do everything you can to make the amendments that we've accepted into the law, what can I tell you? We move to the next item of the agenda, that's point 11. 29 Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of BiH (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You have received a report from the Joint Defence and Security Committee. The Commission accepted the proposal in the proposed text. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in the proposed text. I ask Mr. Zrn, as chairman of the Committee, to bring us into debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4231	Thank you. I welcome you. Very simply, the Joint Committee is at its 32nd session, held on 2nd. 2. In 2009, the draft law was considered in the first phase, meaning in a debate on principles, and set out a final proposal for an opinion. After a general debate was held, the Joint Committee concluded with 10 votes "for", one vote "against" and five "abstained" votes: it accepts the principle of the bill's proposal and points to that opinion in a further legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4232	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. Who wants another word? I'm closing the debate and I suggest we vote on the bill. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? No one's here. Šaraba's out. So we accepted the bill unanimously. We're going to point 12, that's ad. 12. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You've received a report from the relevant committee, the Constitutional Court. The commission passed the draft law with two amendments. With identical two amendments, the House of Representatives adopted the bill. I ask Mr. Jović if he has a need. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4234	Thank you very much. You've said all that nicely, and I can only say that we take care of this conclusion that we adopted on the Constitutional Commission. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4235	It's an integral part of your report, we'll take care of it, don't worry. Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill. Who's "for"? I also find that we unanimously accepted the bill. We will now approach the statement of this conclusion, which is also in the content, in the report of the Commission. Who is "for" such a proposal to conclude the commission? I also find that we unanimously accepted the proposed conclusion of the Constitutional Commission. Moving to point 13, that's "Ad." 13. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production within the CEFTA Agreement (first reading), Proposer: House of Representatives The promoter is the House of Representatives, as the House of Representatives adopted the bill. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill, our authorized commission, are two, both the ustavnopravni and the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. I would first of all ask Mrs. Čolo for a few introductory sentences. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4237	Thank you, Chairman. The Commission considered this law, although it was adopted in the House of Representatives as early as February 18th. 2. In 2009, both in the first and second readings. It was only during the first commission phase that the Commission considered it at its last session of 15. 4. In 2009. You received in the Report that the Commission, with three votes "for", two votes "against" and one "restricted", supported the principles of the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production under the CEFTA Agreement. I'd like to pass a little debate on to the Commission. We have received a letter from the Directorate for European Integration saying that the acquis does not regulate the matter regulated by this law, so that in this respect its compliance with EU legislation, the Directorate for European Integration has not stated, but said that the CEFTA Agreement, which BiH has concluded, is a multilateral CEFTA Agreement that is very important for the accession of BiH to the EU and that the Directorate for European Integration considers it necessary to respect this agreement in this now phase of EU accession. 31 The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations gave its negative opinion. So, I want to meet the House about everything that's been on the Commission. Also, the head of the European Commission's delegation Dimitris Kourkoulas sent a letter saying that it is not going into any further procedure for the adoption of this law. Also, the BiH Foreign Ministry warned BiH that the law would violate the obligations of CEFTA countries and suggested that the law also not be passed. And that's why we had this vote on our commission. However, the reason why... the members of the Commission who are six and why they voted like this is the position of our resolution ministry, means the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, whose representative said there were no serious disturbances on the BiH market in the part of imports of agricultural products, and what this law is trying to correct. And also, a representative of the resolution ministry said that no consultation had taken place as provided for by Article 23 bis of the CEFTA Agreement, which says: if there are serious market disturbances that the countries of the signatories of the Agreement have taken certain measures to address this disturbance, and if this is not possible, there is a mechanism for introducing unilateral measures. BiH would introduce unilateral measures with this law and I was detained on that commission, because here I am a legalist and I would like to respect the procedure prescribed by Article 23. bis. However, I have received from colleagues, who are well understood in this issue, the interpretation that BiH and the resolution ministry have done nothing, although there has been a serious market disturbance, because indicators are going in this direction that the resolution ministry has done nothing to get into the process of consultation with neighbouring countries, it is Serbia and Croatia, because imports are excessive from these countries, especially agricultural products, and exports from BiH are negligible, so that during this period, this law should not be adopted at the House today in the second reading. This period until the adoption of the law in the second reading should open a consultation process with neighbouring countries, so that the disturbances recorded on the BiH market are resolved and that BiH agricultural producers do not suffer adverse consequences. And the Bošnjak klub has today taken the stand to vote for the principles of this law, so respecting the views of its club and I will vote that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4238	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. So I'm not gonna deny the right to speak to us here at the House, the author of the motion, and our proposal here is the House of Representatives. Is there anyone here interested in the House of Representatives? The promoter himself, Mr Jerko Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4239	Dear President, colleagues, fellow envoys, distinguished guests, since this law has been discussed a lot so far, a lot has been written, I will not burden you with a long discussion, I'm just going to make some facts that you may not have known by now. 32 So, before the proposal itself, the law was addressed to the European Commission. As the President of the Commission has said, the European Commission has not made a negative statement on this law. It does not violate the CEFTA Agreement because we, in our statements under the CEFTA Agreement, have committed ourselves to adopt domestic legislation that will regulate the procedures under which we will be able to adopt safeguard measures, anti-dumping measures and other measures that CEFTA foresees, so that through the law you could see which procedures are fully and fully in line with the WTO. The last member of the law defines that despite the procedures, customs duties are started on certain agricultural products. The reasons were that the House of Representatives' Agriculture Group found that there were market disturbances, that there were disturbances in regulatory mechanisms within the state, one of them was simply a failure to encourage farmers for the past year, so that there were conditions that the law could, and that member might be in this law. The attempts are made by certain individuals to intimidate the adoption of this law by introducing countermeasures. What would be good, which is to introduce countermeasures to this law, because then BiH would get the possibility that there is not just this narrow range of products within the protection system, but would have the opportunity to protect the entire agricultural production, where somewhere directly benefiting from the budgets of around 500 million KM, where out of these 500 million could give our exporters who export to those countries, and customs are charged, give them additional incentives that would practically cancel these countermeasures and effect would be that BiH producers would have the same status in neighbouring countries, and BiH's budgets around 350 million would have a positive balance that could be used to support production that is in a very difficult situation at the moment. So much, if there are any more questions, I'm at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4240	Thank you very much. If you need a resolution minister, Mr. Zirojević, perhaps we should hear you as well. Here you go, Minister Zirojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4241	The Honorable Chairman, well, you have certainly been informed of what the Foreign Trade Ministry's position and the Council of Ministers is about this law, following all the events and inscriptions in the media relating to the initiative to pass this law. So, it is absolutely undeniable that this law violates international agreements and obligations undertaken by international agreements, both the CEFTA and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. By proposed law, it should have been an important one to establish foreign trade advisers who provided information that the foreign trade ministry is doing nothing in terms of protection, to propose the introduction of a full customs rate, i.e. MFN rates, provided for by the BiH Customs Tariff Act on the 954 tariff lines. The analysis done at the Ministry of Foreign Trade, which was given to you for consideration, has shown that out of that 954 tariff lines in 2007, almost identical data in 2008, only 227 tariff lines were imported from Serbia or 23.79%, while 311 tariff lines were imported from Croatia, representing 32.10%. So 60%, or slightly more for Serbia, of the product's tariff lines are not imported to BiH at all. 33 Then what is to be protected by the proposed law? What kind of products are these? What's to protect the proposed one? It is in one set of data and on a mass of goods to push through what is proposed by the MP, it is certainly the most appropriate. As I said, it is undeniable that it is a violation of the international agreement. International agreements are derrogated, they are in colluding with the proposed law. I am almost every day able to contact the representatives, first of all, the countries in the environment and the ambassadors of some, so to speak, extremely significant countries, who say, 'Lords, you have CEFTA rehearsal. This is a rehearsal, CEFTA! Have you been able to respect the Stabilisation Agreement, take care of what's going on!' I appreciate that, and these are the announcements of my colleagues from the resolution ministers in Croatia and Serbia, above all this proposed law applies to them, that both Serbia and Croatia and we have concrete announcements and memos, and also recently, when signing the Agreement on Economic Co-operation, Minister Dinić announced to my deputy also recently at a fair held in Mostar, Prime Minister Senader was alive interested in applying, for the fate of this law – to introduce countermeasures. We will certainly be in a position to be notified to the General Secretariat of the CEFTA and to enter into a very uncertain process of arbitration with an uncertain outcome. I suggest: certainly not to support the adoption of this law, because BiH would put itself in one position to face the international community of justice, to come in a position to be characterised as a country that is not staffed by respect for international agreements and commitments. That absolutely doesn't need and my opinion is, and given the problem he's treating, that a certain reaction from the High Representative is. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4242	Thank you very much, Mr. Zirojević. For the discussion, we have four people reported so far. I'll take the right to speak first, then Mrs. Dušanka Majkić, get ready for Rančić, then Mr. Rajić. The rest of you, I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4243	I have a business, before the debate, about principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4244	It's a business matter of principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4245	... business interventions in the procedure. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4246	Here you go, Mr. Rajić. So that's an advantage over the debate, business. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to share my report on this wheel in two parts. The first is part of the procedural nature, and the second is when there's talk about the principles of the law, then I'll show myself when it's my turn. I think this was necessary to make a statement about the procedure before we talk about the essence. So, I got in the material, as well as other colleagues and fellow MPs, the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and the competent Committee on Foreign Trade from which this is imposed which I want to put as a problem. And I'll tell you what it's about. In accordance with Article 101 of the Treaty on The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples have been established as to how the House decides in relation to the opinions delivered by the competent committees. So in point 1, in fact paragraph (1) of this article, it is said that the House can accept the position of the commission; if it does not accept it, that the law is falling; and if the opinion of the commission is rejected, then new tasks are given, etc. This is then linked to the provision of Article 39 which speaks about the way this House decides, which literally says that 'the commission decides by a simple majority', so by simple majority, the mathematical majority, 50% plus 1, 'on condition that it has a quorum in which all three constituent nations must be represented'. In this case it is a decision in which it was full, all six members of the Committee took part in the final section, so we get a decision, and we get a report saying that the Commission accepted the principles, namely the principles of the three-vote law, two votes "against" and one "abstained" vote. So here he goes back to math, I'm not talking politics or law, I'm talking about math: 3 out of 6 is not half the majority. So mathematically this means that if we have number six, that something is more than half of it has to be greater than 3. I remind you of how we calculate most of the entity vote, so we've determined that the two-thirds majority of the five is four, and here we have half the majority of the six is three, so it's impossible. In this regard, I call on the College to comply with Article 160. Rules of Procedure to interpret the validity of the Report of the Committee, i.e. the way of voting, and to show the College, according to its powers, that the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and the provisions which I have laid down as a failure. For me as a representative, the Committee has not made a decision, it has no positive, it cannot make a decision as positive, and we are facing a problem. We're pleading on something that doesn't exist. So I ask that the College be seen on this matter by its powers before we move on to a discussion of principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4248	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. So, we don't have a full college here. The College shall be owned in accordance with Article 160. Rules of Procedure to interpret Rules of Procedure. I don't hold this as a business injury, or as a request, so I need an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. I would say that is defined in our Rules of Procedure in Article 39 of the decision-making process. It clearly stands, so for me, it's certainly not a business injury. Before this is the previous question before the debate that you mentioned, if you will allow me to notice, because it says in the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations: 'The Commission decides by simple majority', so by simple majority, 'on condition that at least most of its members are present'. Look. We had the result of the vote, what you refer to at the 35 Foreign Trade Committee, where of the six members of the Committee, three members of the Committee declared themselves "yes", two were "against" and one was "abstained". So we got that simple majority and it's perfectly consistent with the Rules of Procedure's decision at the Committee. If you think that you are unhappy with what I have told you, we will satisfy you and the position of the College in full composition, but we cannot do this today, we will have to continue to work with the debate, with the decision, although I do not hold the disputed manner as our commission has decided.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4249	May I answer, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4250	Of course. Here you go. So we went outside the Rules of Procedure into some, but it's affordable, so anything that's not forbidden.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4251	I find it completely unnecessary to discuss warm water, what has been discovered. So the question of the simple mathematical majority is mathematical, not political or legal issue. We're all educated here in one way or another, certain profiles of waist. We all know that 3 is not the majority of 6. It does not determine our Rules of Procedure to vote on the principle of who has more votes, but a qualified majority means that those who voted must be 50% plus 1 and decide everywhere and vote for the individual. No one can be president of the state if they don't get 50% plus 1 vote. It's also here. This is where most of them cross 3. I ask the question: that the decision has not been made!So that's the essence of my objection. The Foreign Trade Committee couldn't make the decision that was delivered to us, and it doesn't satisfy me that you're going to give me an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure at the next session. This is for me previously procedurally but essentially an essential question.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4252	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4253	I demand that you read about it, and you read yourself in a way if you think it's... I don't accept that you're postponing a statement about what I've set up for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4254	So, Mrs. Majkić agrees with what I said, but you will have to agree with what the College says in full co-operation. So we solved the previous question, I'm going to take the word now on this agenda point. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, we have never had you in more numbers, your Excellencys, fellow journalists who follow our work, this is one very interesting item of the agenda, and I hardly remember the law that was in our parliament, which was in the 36 parliamentary procedure, and came to the House of Peoples, and that in the very proposal of some law there was so much controversy before the debate itself, before the adoption of such a law. I will go in line, from the opinion we received from the Constitutional Commission, and I will notice that a unanimous opinion on compliance with the Constitution and the BiH legal system has been established. You see, I don't think that's the case. So, I have the right to my opinion: I do not think that this is because the proposed text of the law cannot say that it is in line with the legal system if it is ratified in the Parliamentary Assembly, given consent to ratification, the Presidency did so, handed over to the depositary, therefore the ratified CEFTA Agreement. They know all the CEFTA members, it's become the superlative domestic law. So it's a norm that binds this country. So I cannot accept that, therefore, this norm has become an integral part of the BiH legal system and I cannot accept this view of the Constitutional Commission that this... is consistent with the Constitution and the legal system, because I am convinced that this bill is contrary to the intensities of the CEFTA Agreement. Opinion on the Proposal for a Law of the relevant Committee on Foreign Trade, Trade Policy, Customs, etc. We heard and quite correctly Mrs. Čolo took the views from what is in this opinion, in the opinion of the Committee, but in the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration, there are some other views which the Committee did not put into its report and... these views are too important for our understanding whether or not it is in accordance with the BiH legal system. The European Integration Directorate is clearly telling us, it warns us, we also know that respect for the commitments contract has special importance in international law, and that it is set out the explicits of the Vienna Convention on Contracting Law of the UN, which is a member of the 26th Act of Sunt Servand, so contracts should be executed, it is perfectly clear that any contract that is binding on the parties is in force. "The CEFTA," he said, stands at the position of the Directorate for European Integration, 'the international multilateral agreement and its acceptance and ratification in BiH have ceased all bilateral agreements'. So, the only valid document that we can discuss, we're talking about amending our legislation is to look at what's in that accepted multilatellary contract. Do we touch someone's rights when we reach out to some standard that does not conform to the international law standard that has become an integral part of our legal system? We have the 'Law on the Protection of Domestic Production', we have heard the promoter, the esteemed Mr. Lijanović, and I think that this law itself is very interesting, so everyone can say to God, so what do individuals who think differently about not protecting the domestic product in BiH, when we have: safe Croatian, let's keep Balkan, keep Belgian, let's eat German, let's buy Russian, etc. It's all fine. But please, nicely, the principles on which the bill rests are disputed. In us, we are now talking about the principles and reasons that lead us, I will talk about the principles and the reasons that are not really the reasons, because in the reason for this law, I wrote the answer as if I wrote to him, which I am against this bill, because I am for a completely different approach, I will tell you how I think of it. The principles of the bill are controversial, so... the bill is not in line with the BiH legal system and what has already become a flossula, it has become a syntagma that we are all talking about, it has been violated, some kind of market business and the market in BiH has been disrupted. It is not CEFTA's fault, but the domestic institutions of the authorities that put the agricultural and 37 other production in BiH in the situation. In the very subject matter of the law, therefore one fraud stands. The subject of the law is not a way of implementing the CEFTA Agreement. The CEFTA Agreement also regulated the way in which the implementation and implementation, i.e. the amendments and behaviour of CEFTA members, should there be a need and if a market is violated in individual CEFTA signatories. This is about introducing, therefore, the law introduces full customs rates for certain products of two CEFTA members, notably the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. And there are prescribed procedures as to how and how it can be done. Disorder to bh. The market was explained by gentlemen in the Explanation of the Bill: 'The disturbance is on the market due to', he said, 'excessive imports of products. It has been found that farmers have no one to sell their products, no buyers, no stock reserves have not provided enough funds in the budgets, farmers are mostly in loans, droughts and harvesting grains are a big problem, BiH producers are forced to buy cereals on the world market' So please, gentlemen, these are our problems, these are the problems of this country. These are not CEFTA's problems, and these problems must be solved by domestic authorities. I'll just remind you, here on page 7 of this argument, which reads: 'The BiH agriculture is burdened by poor coordination of BiH institutions, poor incentive measures, the absence of co-ordination in subsidising agricultural production, the depravity of agricultural holdings and the non-use of agricultural land, the allocations for agriculture amounting to 4% in RS, and in the Federation is 3% of the budget.' Well, you see that the problems here, they're detected in this explanation. Let's agree here at the House of Nations and assign the relevant bodies of the institutions of the authorities who have to improve the position of agriculture and other branches that we have an equal match with the other signatories of CEFTA, not to work a law that simply wakes up ugly rhetoric and looks for countermeasures that will cost BiH and the farmers themselves, which we fool with a good title but with bad content. I have to say here in front of all of you, I've got a few (so some mentioned Mrs. Čolo) directly act as president of the House, and they know it and my colleagues from the College of the House of Peoples. So, the European Commission has already been mentioned, the head of the delegation sent one letter and said, "We urge not to continue the process of adopting such a bill." Please, it's the European Commission. We have the Council of Ministers' opinion, we've heard of Resolute Minister Zirojević, I wouldn't repeat his views, I mean even harder and uglier than they've written, and you've warned explicitly about every detail and everything that could happen to us by adopting this law. We're talking about principles. I claim that the principles are contrary to an international agreement that we must respect. We have here an act informing me of the Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić, who justified the occupancy of today's session, because on the agenda of the Council of Ministers' Office, he informed me that he had received the promotion of the Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia to BiH, Mr. Staničić, who followed our work and I welcome him, delivered the same promotion, so the note of the Republic of Croatia, on my behalf and the chairman, that is, a member of the BiH Presidency Mr. Željko Komšić, who also said here that he was visited by Ambassador Tonči Staničić that the reasons for the non-acceptability of this bill and that the Croatian side would respond to BiH if this law were adopted. The CEFTA accession agreement and the BiH agreement itself and all CEFTA signatories committed themselves to respecting the rules on the functioning of the CEFTA Agreement. These rules are (I believe that you have all peeked a little and seen what is contained in a very, very extensive 38 document, there are norms that commit to the behavior of those who are unhappy with certain, always wanting to change some regulations, so, and touching, having... with CEFTA or wanting to introduce some measures, countermeasures, etc.) that they must take into account the rules of operation of CEFTA, to exchange this information on the implementation of the agreement itself, to carry out previous consultations until a common solution is reached and that all the problems arising from the application of CEFTA are resolved within the Joint Committee, that is to say, the body is called, until that problem is resolved. If it cannot be solved, then a new step is proposed – inmediation, and there is even arbitration. So, it wasn't in the principles of this law and everything that was proposed went right into the last act, it went with the trash before the preparation was done, it wanted to win a game in one way that would not be good for farmers, nor for BiH as a signator of an international legal act: respecting the principle of transparency of the procedures signed by CEFTA but also the prescribed procedures. You saw in a joint statement: they also warn us of procedures, because we intend to be a member of the World Trade Organisation tomorrow, so what the World Trade Organisation has. I will bring this end and say that in BiH by adopting such a law in the House of Representatives and pushing to pass such a law (in principle, a principle debate, there will be an amendment phase): if we adopt such a law, we do not make a good step for BiH, we as a state lose credibility in negotiations and agreements with the international community, and this could be a higher price for us than all the millions that Mr Lijanović spoke of. We need to look at what the whole forest looks like, and not to be blinded by the first tree we look at, quite responsibly I say, and we're simply causing something that could be very severe and it could be countermeasures, not just neighbors, but all the signatories of the CEFTA Agreement. So, I now state the position of colleagues from the Croatian People's Club: these are sufficient reasons and these warnings we have received that the Croatian People's Club does not support even the principle. I'd like to grow consciousness. Take a look at the normative part of the CEFTA Agreement, see how much of the steps that should have been taken and not done, but rather pushed the hot potatoes of BiH as the state to accept a law for which they would pay a large price. Thank you very much. I think she just asked for Mrs. Dušanka's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4255	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that once upon a time this Parliament has been in a position to have enough arguments for and against both, and that a controversial law has come to this Parliament that cannot leave us indifferent, but rather, it has forced us, if we want to be serious and responsible, to look at both aspects of this problem. Here, let's start with this first one that's easier and practically talked about by Mr. Filipović. The House of Representatives passed this law, proposed by Mr Lijanović delivered the first version of this law in 2007 at the same time as we discussed the CEFTA Agreement. Then this law was rejected, the House of the Peoples did not adopt it. What's he really predicting? When I want to set myself up not to cheer for either side, to be objective, then the analysis says that the Law on the Protection of Domestic Production provides for the introduction of full customs rates for customs duties of heading 02 (meat and edible meat products), 04 39 (milk and other dairy products), heading 1601 (meat sausages and similar products), heading 1602 (other prepared and preserved meat products), Chapter 20 (products of vegetables, fruit) and Chapter 22 (drinks, alcohol and cheeses). Exactly what someone said is that it is six product groups and when those six product groups are divided into ten digits, we get those 954, as the minister said, tariff codes and within them 10,472 agricultural products, or that is 9,11% of the total BiH tariff. We also heard that imports were from Serbia for 208 of these lines is only 22% and from Croatia 313 lines or 33%. We also heard that we did not get, practically, no one gave consent, no competent ministry, no Directorate for European Integration, Council of Ministers, the European Commission, all gave a negative position, even the Republic of Croatia put a protest note through its ambassador. The main arguments that are suggested in this regard are that the House of Peoples should not adopt this law, because the ratified agreements on accession to the Central European Free Trade Agreement, which is governed by domestic law, have been concluded and the second is that it is contrary to this law. It is, therefore, contrary not only to the CEFTA Agreement but also to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which highlights the importance of regional co-operation. It is said that we will be notified to the Secretary-General of CEFTA, that we will have countermeasures, that we will send a bad message about BiH as a country that does not respect international agreements. And that's only half the truth and half the story. What does the other half say? I've been dealing with this other half for two months trying to understand those who are looking for it. And now I've been trying to do it on an example of the brewery industry that was the only one looking for the protection of domestic production by the official route, and the minister, I hope, will confirm it to me. And what did I find out? 70% of beer on the domestic market is from imports. The brewing industry makes up five beer producers in BiH, which is based on another 300 small companies living if the brewing industry comes to life. For years, the brewing industry has been fighting for its place under the sun, or trying to survive in this unfair competition where 70% of beer makes beer from imports. And what do the brewers say? And that's probably what I can get out of it that's the problem of domestic production and everyone else's. The basic problem and why we have this 10 billion trade deficit is that it is cheap and easy to import into BiH and very expensive and complicated to export to neighbouring markets, and, like, everyone has to respect the CEFTA Agreement. As an active participant of CEFTA, BiH has recently shown its relations with the international agreement. It lifted all trade barriers so that we now have a fully open market for import goods, especially for goods from neighbouring countries. It is now so cheap and easy to import into BiH that not only premium products are imported but also the cheapest goods. Most of the reasons, as I said before, are that customs costs are so low that they are actually irrelevant to the final calculation of goods. In neighbouring countries, it's not like that. Those costs are very high. The brewers believe BiH should increase all customs costs, which means those costs related to inspection control, sanitary control, from 100% to 200% to equalise with neighbouring countries. Also, our neighbours do not respect the principle of open borders, which is a prerequisite for the effective functioning of CEFTA. Our neighbours continue with a policy of disrupting imports through the use of sanitary checks, analysis and other bureaucratic measures. The brewers felt it on their skin, but they're certainly not the only ones. I didn't have the opportunity to persist in the analysis of other producers who are in a very similar situation. Five brewers showed the way they work, so, for example, in one example, delivery to Serbia presented 40 costs of analysis and customs, which amounted to 1,600 marks, with a truck being held on customs duty for three weeks. Is that CEFTA? Is that the CEFTA we respect, is that the CEFTA that the countries around us respect? So, what exactly are the costs of domestic companies exporting in these conditions? What does he do when a beer comes from Serbia and Croatia, what happens? We paint it right away, sometimes we take a sample, sometimes not, most often not, but taking a sample doesn't prevent the goods from going into traffic and selling. In Serbia, it waited three weeks before the job and check was completed, since the alleged check, so the administrative barriers that were set there and, until all the work was completed, three weeks of trucks stood at the border!? Consider the recent example of milk. Croatia has introduced new regulations, also barriers, which have made it impossible for BiH milk to go on a regular course towards Croatia. When BiH responded with the same measures, the next day immediately, those measures disappeared. Croatia has withdrawn the measures and made it possible for the goods to continue their journey in the same way as they came and until then. The foreign trade and economic relations ministry has an obligation to manage trade and trade policy. It has an obligation to call the producers and tell them what to do to protect themselves. I asked them what you did in that field, so they showed me a bunch and a bunch of documentation, so documents that can't even be provided by state institutions. They showed me an example of where a specification needed to be broken down into 10 digits and then said that the indirect tax administration had stopped the possibility of the Chamber of Commerce. How's he gonna get a beer manufacturer if he can't get a Chamber of Commerce? Here, the other day it's only been off, a year so the brewers were able to make documentation on the protection requested by the Ministry, which ended in 2007, they couldn't because the IRS didn't give that information. And then they got information from the Ministry: Excuse me, please, you can't get that protection because, in addition to exporting, you had imports. And when I asked them, here, you see, you want to fool the state, a simple argument, a Banja Luka, I think it's another brewery in BiH, I think in the Gruds she had temporary exports to import cans. There is no can making in BiH. So they took out a beer to import cans. So, it's not a scam and in the end, on 11 trucks, on 11 thousand trucks as far as it was exported, 23 was imported to that beer in cans. Can we, here in the Parliamentary Assembly, calmly observe an increased 10 billion marks deficit with a growth trend? Can we do that? Secondly, all countries in the world, during today's economic crisis, are asking economic issues as a priority, i.e. the question of all issues is how to keep production and how to keep jobs. Shouldn't this country think the same way? Will this correctness help us if we stay consistent like so far so we exported, opened our borders and let everything and everything in? Will that correctness help us if tomorrow our children have no place to work, if we can't keep our jobs, will we even sit here, us sitting here? So, first of all, I think this is a problem where we need a lot more sensitivity than we have. Secondly, I think we need a lot more contact between politicians and businessmen. Both the Ministry and all others are obliged to go by the hand to all those who produce and watch the way they keep their jobs. Nothing will help me to be praised one day for respecting international agreements if our children have nothing to eat. So it's a very serious problem. I'm not talking about the law, I have a million objections and, I mean, I'd better not say 41, because I'd have to say anything, but what's the other side of the truth I wanted you to hear about it. And because I don't have any other suggestion, I don't have any other option, we're going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4256	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Easy, I've got order here. Mr. Rančić, then Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4257	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I did not expect there to be this many conversations and candidates reported but it is obvious that the question deserves very special attention. Unfortunately, when I follow officials from other countries into matters of interest for their country, for their businesses, for their business, for their agriculture, for their banking, etc., then I see them taking a keen stand to help those institutions and their businesses and their citizens. Unfortunately, on the other hand, some of our officials, when they speak, they seem to be running and racing to protect other countries, to protect industry, agriculture, producers and workers of other countries, and almost nothing or very little are doing to protect their own country, which, if not, should be a basic task to all of us. Statements that this law is contrary to international acts signed by BiH, I cannot accept, without precise and precise quote of the provisions of the rules to which it is called. In this law, which we have received, the Reason is precise, whether or not it is a quoted member of the 23rd Bis which provides for the possibility of taking both bilateral and unilateral measures if there is a disturbance. It is said that, in the signing of this agreement, our party has insisted on introducing this member who will give the possibility that if there is a disturbance in this sensitive area, in the area of agriculture, appropriate measures can be taken. About how much and what our legislative and executive authorities are doing, and about agriculture, from 1999 to 2007, here's the data, as of 2007, says in this explanation that the source of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is BiH. When you look at imports from 1999 to 2007, you will see that it is cca 16 billion and that BiH exports are cca 1.5 billion. Here, look what the imbalance is and what deficit it's about. That he is more than 10 times, and this results in everything that the competent institutions have done during this time period to make this negative and catastrophic relationship for BiH change. The data of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce as well as the legislator of the law, which states that imports from Croatia in 2007, thus imports of these goods from the Republic of Croatia and exports to Croatia are 125 million. So the relationship is 6:1 in favour of the Republic of Croatia. And when it comes to imports-exports with Serbia, therefore the exchange, 430 million are imported from the Republic of Serbia and 65 million are exported to the Republic of Serbia from BiH. So the ratio is almost 7-1. If these data to our esteemed and esteemed officials, so also for 2007 but also from 1999 to 2007, do not say how disastrous the relationship in the areas of imports and exports of agriculture is about BiH and the two neighbouring countries, then I do not know what else could open their eyes. And constantly and every time we try to do something like that in this area they always tell us it's not, it's not data, it's not true that we don't do it, we do it, we do it with our heart, and we know how to answer certain MPs about certain questions. 42 As if our administration is working hard, our electoral officials to protect other countries from us, and not vice versa to protect our country and our citizens from excessive imports from other countries, what is their task, what is their superior task, so all of us both executive and legislative authorities, and not only from the state level but from local self-government, and ultimately with us. Therefore, the CEFTA Agreement provides an opportunity for us as a state to take measures to protect ourselves from this excessive imports. And if we asked the Honorable Minister or the Council of Ministers if you did anything, they'd probably, I don't know, how many kilos of material we'd put out and say we'd process, we'd be delivering a report, etc. etc., and you see, I would suggest and recommend that you see how officials of other states react in the direction of protecting their country. It's just that the law has come into the process, but the law has come into the procedure, it hasn't been adopted yet, the first reading, whether it's going to be an amendment, if we're going to adopt it, we don't know anything, the officials of other states are also giving you protest notes and coming to you messages from both these and those, etc., and at the same time, instead of supporting us, you're telling us the story they're telling us. Well, at least when you're talking about documents that came for and against, or statements, or I don't know what kind of communication they're talking about about and against the adoption of this law, it would be nice to even mention the letter from the president of the unions PP... which I think we all got, it says, it's addressed to all the delegates, where they call us as delegates of the House of Nations to adopt this law and try to at least contribute a little bit to the protection of our agriculture. So, I call on colleagues, I will not go on, here are the principles, I call on all my colleagues and colleagues to adopt this law in the first reading, and I respect the Agreement, and I propose one conclusion, said Čolo, which is that, with the adoption of the law in the first reading, we should assign the Council of Ministers to take urgent action and talks with representatives of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia and in the direction of protecting agricultural production here in BiH. So, you see, when they're in their interest, they immediately, not waiting for you, sent a protest note. So why don't you, not waiting for anyone else, take appropriate steps with neighbouring countries to protect our domestic production? And the data ratio in the last decade between imports and exports, I think everything tells everyone what the situation is like in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4258	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mr. Rajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I am fully aware that in today's debate each of us can expose itself to the risk of success and the risk of being declared black sheep. Of course, success will be reaped by all those who say at a pathetic level, arguing that domestic production needs to be protected. I have great wisdom, discovered some warm water! It's a fact older than us and older than the state of BiH that we created 15 years ago, because that's how it is, but here is the fundamental question: have we taken our own right to do what we're trying to do today, or has someone forced us to do it? Every country, including BiH, has a natural right, has a moral and any other duty to protect domestic production, to protect the local population from all the negative effects of the world economy, the economy of the environment 43 etc. However, it did not seem particularly directed to come up with this kind of debate to divide today into who represents the interests of other countries and who represents the interests of the country in which we live. It's really a tragic parallel that's been withdrawn and I'm determined to oppose it. So I'm not representing anyone here except my own beliefs. Just your own conviction. And I'll tell you what makes me believe. It is a very bad question that is set here, (I would ask you to leave a little circle for later), it is a very bad question whether you should apply international commitments, which have become part of the domestic legal system, or whether you should make an ad hoc move that may bring some economic benefits in some projections. I'm telling you right now, as a representative in this house, I'm advocating the principle of legality. Let us do everything we can to protect domestic production but in accordance with international commitments, not them, despite or despite them. So that doubt that is set here, whether it should be applied right or pragmatism, I object to any pragmatism that commits violence towards law. Secondly, there is an even worse doubt that points to the finger and divides these MPs today into patriots and those who are not. We have had opportunities to prove our patriots in different stages of our lives and in some near and distant past, and we should specifically talk about it, not arbitraryly, casually. It is easy to like the public with arbitrary grades and no matter – don’t be angry, but if you want to and be angry – by demagoguely setting up certain structures. First I'll tell you it's a lobby. Unfortunately, there are no arguments or proponents, it did not show, to protect domestic production, to protect domestic lobbys. Time will show who was right. I have nothing against protecting domestic lobbys, and it is part of the domestic reality, but in a legal way and in a way that meets the international commitments of BiH. I will not shut up here, not from the point of view of pathetic romanticism and patriotism that is often sold here in this House and some is disputed, but I really want to warn you, colleagues and colleagues and other representatives, BiH's reputation is being sold out this way. Someone said CEFTA is one of the lobbys that goes through on the road to the EU. If we show here that we are able to mine every agreement and pragmatically adapt it to our moment, we will really close the door for ourselves. Not to ourselves, we're not the important ones sitting here, we're going to lock up people living in this country, and they expect something in this country to start happening better. So, I'm gonna go back to that first thought I said. Every state and BiH has the right and the duty to protect domestic production, especially if the right has limited itself. BiH is one of the signatories of the CEFTA Free Trade Agreement, which limited its right to do what it is today trying to do. There's not much choice. Either break international obligations or step out of CEFTA and then do whatever we want according to our own legislation. I am not for any adventurous moves, neither to violate international law, nor to destroy BiH's reputation, nor to look helplessly at domestic production suffering the consequences. I think that fellow Filipović well apostrophe, stressed the sources of the problem: domestic measures that are not subject to international legal norms or international contracts. That's where we didn't do almost anything together. Of course, BiH cannot do anything, given its budget position that it has a specific, unique world position, but entities and other levels of government have indeed done nothing below. And instead of pointing a finger there, we point a finger at something else. So, I will conclude with this, I am not less patriot and less interested in the prosperity of domestic production and the growth of the standards of people in this country, but I am against violations of internationally 44 commitments and because of BiH's reputation and instead of accepting such laws, today in the principles of trying to fix something with amendments tomorrow, which will be very difficult, I join myself in a certain way with the proposal given by my colleague Rančić – since we have not received any information that any body of BiH has tried to behave in accordance with the possibilities given by the CEFTA – to assign to the Council, (well, colleague Ibrahimpašić has the right and to such an opinion, I don't think that we should have donkeys die), I think that the Council of Ministers should be obliged to consider, within a short and very reasonable period, these aspects of the problems that Mrs. Majkić has spoken to us, and then, if we are brought into a situation to show that the countries of neighbours have no hearing, and therefore, as regards to the issue, which we will be able to join the issue. Before seeing it, before trying to talk, I think this is a good adventure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4260	I'll take the line. So, the replica refers to what Mr. Rančić said, because it is difficult to digest without me responding to such accusations as are so groundbreaking that I am surprised by a colleague who would have had to bear in mind that I mentioned all the acts that came to me as chairman, who came to Parliament, who came to the College, members of the College of the House of Peoples. I'll mention those names again. Among them are two Hrvat, me who spoke and Željko Komšić, who as a member of the presidency, warned that this was not good. The President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers sent this as the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The act also came from Dr Špirić, but on behalf of the Directorate for European Integration. And respected Minister Zirojević spoke here and told about all the harmfulities and discrepancies of this bill with CEFTA. Mr. Osman Topčagić, former director of the European Integration Directorate, Bošnjak, came in. I mentioned three Srbin before. The act of the Ambassador of the European Commission, Mr Dimitris Kourkoulas, has come, so as far as I know, he is Grk. And now I'm going to read another warning very clear about the bill we are discussing today: 'From the aspect of its principles it was discussed at the CEFTA session at the CEFTA Subcommittee on Agriculture ( Veterinary and Phytosanitary Affairs). It's been discussed in Podgorica since 8. On 8 and 9 April of this year, all CEFTA parties said it was a violation of the CEFTA Agreement and called on BiH to withdraw the draft law from the further procedure." Of course I spoke as president of the dom and as a Hrvat, and I am proud to be a Hrvat. I did not say that because it is an attack on two neighbouring countries, because I hold that this is not how good neighbourly relations are built, that in this way, by pushing one law into the BiH Parliament, there is something that we have to come to and we can come up with in a completely different way. The proposal has fallen, here the proposal is very interesting, therefore, that after this first reading, the Council of Ministers concludes that, I would add, in accordance with the act I have here in my hand, that is the decision on ratification and response to Mr Rančić from Article 1 to Article 52 of the Standard Part CEFTA which talks about implementation, on the Joint Committee, on consultations, on other bodies, on arbitration, etc., so almost no article, You are talking about the 23rd Bis, read Article 24. No step on this article has been taken. I'm nosy of resolute ministers who know what I'm talking about. Read it well. So that's a reading that's 45 answers for you, why as a lawyer, as a legalist, I'm acting like this and asking us not to violate international legal acts. I'll never raise my hand for that. And that's why I think you misjudged me when you called me a representative of the interest of the Croatian state. I will always defend them, very consistent, precise and pedantic, but reasoned. Without argument, you won't hear it from me. Thank you very much. This walk from my presidency to my pay phone is being driven by the Rules of Procedure, who says, "If the President speaks, he must go out for a pay phone." It was a lot easier for me to do from here, but I had to get up, because I couldn't react to this kind of talk. Mr. Rančić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4261	Thank you very much. I was a little worried about a respected fellow chairman, so he seemed emotional to me, and I didn't see a reason, but there he was.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4262	I'm very stable. Don't worry about me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4263	I'm glad... and I was really worried, because at first I didn't understand what part of the replica is going in, because I didn't bring it into the national context or what I know, but in the end I want to say about protection by officials. It has absolutely nothing to do with the nation or nationality. Someone can be any nationality and official, and unfortunately work in the interest of another state. So I'm asking you to understand it that way. So, I don't bring it in a way that if someone is a Hrvat, he will protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, no. It is a principled attitude that is not related to nationality and someone can do it, and it is also Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat and some citizen... etc. in that plane. When it comes to norms, etc., in the first part when you spoke both you and the minister, you did not say what was not in line with. Afterwards you spoke of certain provisions and I just pointed out that. And I've been calling for a member of the 23rd Bis because he's coming to our favor and giving us the opportunity to take appropriate action. And that's quite enough for me, if it stands there, for the executive and legislative authority to take measures accordingly. It was pathetic and demagogy. In this respect, there is neither pathetic nor demagogy. I specified, I specifically called on Article 23. bis as a legal basis, and in terms of facts, I specifically referred to the figures, the data of which is the source of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, the figures of imports and exports of agricultural products between BiH and neighbouring countries. If the data are not correct, I am not responsible, and there is an enormous deficit, i.e. the difference between imports and exports of these agricultural products between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. This is also evidenced by other data on page 7 used by the legislator of this law. 46 And in the end, did I not, in respect of one thing and another, say to support the law and, behold, please give a conclusion to which we oblige the Council of Ministers to take action in accordance with the applicable and domestic and international regulations to protect our, is it, agricultural industries. And not in the way he understood and interpreted the esteemed colleague Rajić, but at the same time. Not in a way that we delay the law so that it is acidified for six months, or 18 months, while someone has mercy from the administration, from the Council of Ministers, from the Resolute Ministry to provide us with some data, but to adopt the law in the first reading, and to elect the Honorable Council of Ministers and the Resort Ministry to take appropriate steps and to report quickly, depending on... [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4264	Thank you very much. I just wanted to clarify, and you didn't need to replicate to me, because I removed the conspiracy of a domestic official, mentioning a Grk. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić came to the floor. Mr. Rajić, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4265	Excuse me, I haven't seen you. So, in a consistent way, it is a replica and it isn't. I said in my proposal that I was somewhere relying on the proposal Mr. Rančić made about the Council of Ministers' duties when Mr. Ibrahimpašić threw it there until he died. I said don't have to die, we'll set a deadline to which, and when that deadline's up, we act independently of what they did or didn't do. So, to make it clear... between these two proposals. Mr. Rančić suggests that the Council of Ministers be in charge, a resolute ministry, in the process until the second reading is done, and I advocate that it be done before, and then the law, if necessary, comes to debate. So, for the record, we don't have the same attitude about it. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4266	Thank you very much. I support this view: we have a debate, we adopt a conclusion and we wait for a follow-up to the decision on the law until they come, in accordance with the CEFTA Agreement, so all procedures carried out with CEFTA members. So let's get the positions of the Joint Committee here, and then we'll do it and then we'll approach the plea. We will not take Mr Ibrahimpašić's right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4267	Well, first of all, I think you'll give me the right, this isn't about any national interest. This is about money. And any normal parliament, the House of Peoples in that normal parliament would not even be discussing this, but those in the House of Representatives who do so. But here's how it is with us, so we have to go in some order. So, please, when the CEFTA agreement was signed, you will remember, he has been delayed two or three times, signed, because the former prime minister, Mr. Terzić, did not want to sign it without that article 47 22, I don't know, it doesn't matter now. Anyway, that's why he was delayed and eventually it was accepted and it entered into the Agreement. And, please, this is not about anything but only about excessive imports and protection of production here to stop that excessive imports. There's no telling if it's our authority's fault, and she didn't do it, or if she did it on the outside, because she did it the way she did it. So it's only about imports that are excessive. Is he excessive or not? Let's see if there's anyone here to prove it's not. But we do because the deficit of 10 billion... with Serbia and Croatia dominates. Then people don't have a problem with it coming down into that frame and saying the excessive deficit is huge, we have to do something to stop that thing and it won't be that big. I made an account of four goods: tobacco, water, beer, and non-alcoholic beverages, refreshing non-alcoholic potions. And we have with the four goods deficits over 500 million and it's very easy to prove that it's only achieved with those two neighbours. And now, look, the question is, if that's the case, then is we, if everything else is okay, whether we as a state can survive at all if we're not able to make any balances or balances on such four... whether we can even be a state or economy, if there's no economy or state, to sell ourselves to someone. Well, hello, students! So, can we even survive, or are there other things? Now, these other things, they're nice, they're very nice, here's what I have to say, I rarely agree, Mrs. Majkić said. It's very worrying how many neighbors are introducing non-tariff barriers. Of course, we're the ones who produce, sell, we feel it on our backs, you have no idea what it's about. I've told you this a few times, I've already had enough of you, so you interrupted me on that committee, I always say the same things about what kind of a barrier there is. Please, Mr. Jurčić, I think that's what it's called, it's an expert economics expert from Croatia, the other day, as we watch very often Croatian television there, says literally, 'We can find room on our market for at least 4 billion more,' (I translated the kuna, didn't say... euros or anything else), 'on the domestic market, on the Croatian market.' So it's politics, it's not like it's someone out there, it's something, it's politics. That's what I'm talking about. Politics there has connected the Ministry, the Chamber of Commerce, the inspection services, even the lab. Don't be angry, I've got a report here where my lab is responding: it's impeccable all the analysis for one item and then it says... support because you wrote that this product was produced from plant extract, and you didn't say which plants. And we copied it all as... declarations, from the declaration of cocktails, from the declaration of all products coming from Croatia to us. Now... there's no story, it's back and it's over. And we have as much damage as you want. I know it's not nice for me to speak my own experience, but all I know from her is that I don't know anyone else. Niko of our authorities have even tried. The first attempt was, if you remember, when I congratulated those in that Department of Veterinary, what's-his-name, but faith when you answered them with the same measure, when the milk was there and there from somewhere. So it's an official policy in neighbouring countries, and it's organized. It can't be organized by itself, my people, that's it. And that's what we're talking about, Chairman, about us not being able to organize ourselves like that. Why? We can talk about it now, can't we? And they're very easy. And we don't have any discriminatory measures against them. What he says... all the market is totally open, we don't even have rules. Here, I'm always talking about waters, we don't have rules, we don't, we've abolished water laws, it's going to be a rule tomorrow. Here, there are years and a few days, and there are no rules today. This area is completely unregulated. And if we want to carry out water in Croatia, then we have to... a country certificate from the EU. So you're a nice barrier. And I can't get that, that certificate, because they ask me: 48, give me permission to use the export. And to get that license... in that rulebook of ours, it's our fault, there's no story, is there. Why and how, we'll see and sometimes someone will investigate. Why can't we? Be careful, we, on my question to the Directorate for indirect taxation in the second attempt when I asked for excise duties in our country to be five times bigger on tobacco processing... imported than on domestic terms, because that's how it is in Croatia, we can't sell anything there, we have a deficit of about 138 million on tobacco alone, the answer was Management for the first time that there is no political will. The second time I asked what that meant, they say, it's not us, sir, but there's no political will to get rid of it somewhere. In the meantime, I have information that the EU has come across Croatia to even it out, and it will be a very long time. But, please, for 14 years, we've had damage. Not because someone, let's say, is guilty of sitting here, but someone lay there on their stomachs and invented it, and no one here reacted. They introduced that non-carinal barrier. And that's what we're talking about here. That's why I did it... and one more thing to say, so all by the book. Here, now you're saying there aren't any tariffs there, I don't know, the brewery industry did it a year ago, we still don't have a problem with that excessive imports, and a year ago, watch out, give it a shot, because we owe it to me, watch out, the producers have to prove excessive imports. Every country has statistics on it, you know... And it binds us to what is very bad in the law, for many, so we had money and financed it. [[You don't understand anything.]] Take the farm. Who will who, how they will raise the money to be, is in some way revealed that it is the way it is. And then when we proved it, then it started... Here, Majkić explained, so I don't want to talk any further. I mean, our people! Look out, our people, from our ministries! And, let me, we have to start talking about this who liked it, who didn't like it. Whoever pulled it, I don't know this one, so of course they'll say how you're gonna do it to us, he's not a fool, he can't root against himself. But there's state policy there, there's no state policy here. And we have to do this. Guys, this is starting now, this is the beginning of something, this is being cleaned up by the sea, otherwise we as a state have no chance, because our economy has no chance. Everyone sort of organized it, and we let it go, and you make more noise when someone like that makes a request to me, and it makes noises on us. Oh... guys, this is a pain in the ass. Look, I've often told you the truth, as far as I'm concerned, no matter how much you rely on yourself and your beaks and see how you're going to forge, there's always an alternative, but it's a question of who's going to buy my product. Will I have money, will I lose my job? I started (forgive me, nothing bad) but when someone comes to me like that and they complain about employment, so wait, come to Croatia, there's more to that beer here than mine, so ask there to hire you, don't come to me. And my people, that's how it's gonna go, you will, you won't. Sometimes someone's gonna come with the fly so if nothing else, they're gonna ask what's going on here, because we don't have any business of this. Our people can't get a job, because we're not doing as much as we should, not even close. Not just, but not at all. Here, come on construction, we can explain it, we can explain the steel, but we can't explain this product of broad consumption. How are we going to, with people introducing us to these non-tariff barriers, and we're pretending, and we amnesty more of them, like it's not their fault, it's our fault. We are, or our authority as much as you want, but they are there, too systematically... And this is, this is the beginning of something. And I'm not about to give you as much space as you want. Why... did my friend Rajić comment while it's being exorcised, we're going to die of donkeys? Because I know from my experience that a year ago we filed all that law and there's nothing left of it. Of course, another year and we'll get our asses killed. And this crisis adds to it. Look, the people out there seriously, I congratulate them, here, that Jurčić and everyone there. When he takes care of his market, he takes care of his producers, eventually, of his citizens who want 49 jobs. We can make a market in Croatia for our goods another 4 billion, at least 4 billion kuna, that's a billion marks. And so, please forgive me, let no one be angry, this is no one's boss, no one's accusing anyone, but this has got to get right... this has to be talked about. Why didn't we introduce these duty-free barriers? Because you thought it wasn't correct, fair, we're nice people, and they're not. It is not difficult to conclude who has any harm, and who benefits. Please don't just try to shut us up, 'cause they won't come after your hand. Let's all work on something that's going to make a better one and that we have... not to go now and fight who's right, who's lying, who's not lying, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4268	Thank you very much. You've been through a long time, I didn't want to interrupt you so you wouldn't be charged with anything again. The word is asked by Minister Zirojević. Here you go, Minister. After that, the vice-president, Minister Vrankić, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4269	I'm really sorry. If you take my explanation here as a silence, then it's not my place to just talk, I should have prepared myself mentally to endure all these insults. Simple, reasoned discussion of what we're doing? First of all, it's not the Veterinary Office that's been acting this way when there was a milk problem, because I insisted on it. The office was before me, the minister was before me, and the company had the same problems before me. But for the first time, it was reacted and assessed as a finding of work to protect domestic production, you say now it's doing nothing. Why can't we build outside customs barriers? Please, let's talk, why can't we? Because we don't have a rule book. Fortunately, we had a rule in the veterinary field, so we could get onto it, so we could apply an additional microbiological analysis that allowed the process of customs administration and the release of goods into free circulation in Croatia, so she reacted as she reacted. Lucky we had him. And you know how long I've waited on that rulebook, consent entity? For months! In Croatia... it is easy to end. Why don't you take this specificity into account, we're a complex state, there's a number of interests. The administration is now awaiting adoption before the Council of Ministers one main regulation on the field of plant protection, which goes to the Council of Ministers and each one I sign. You know what's controversial? I'm telling you, this isn't a silence, this is how hard it is to do. The appearance of a certificate is controversial, whether the coat of arms will stand here or here, or if it will be below here, only one sheet that will issue borders. Once adopted, 11 already ready regulations to sign and apply. He can't, so you're not considering it! It's another thing. Do you really think that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is the reason that all these troubles are beating us? One billion and two hundred million marks last year, Croatia allocated a subsidy to agricultural production and who knows how much (Mr Lijanović, is this true?) from IPA funds because the candidate, the candidate country, has access to the fifth component, i.e. agriculture and rural development, we don't. Serbia is the same, only without IPA funds. And we're just 160 million with some extra rebalancing 175. So where's our space to be competitive? 50 As far as outside customs barriers are concerned, I definitely agree that's the biggest problem. For the first time, here's how we've come in these few months, I've formed a commission in collaboration with the Foreign Chamber of Commerce,... seven regional centres in Sarajevo, the largest cities, talked to farmers, and we'll run an analysis of where these biggest problems are. And you mention Minister Dinkić. The first thing I said was, he says, Ministers on... but give me the letter. And I'll deliver it to him. For five times, in a month and a half, I've been talking to farmers and redecorators, they say that nobody's ever been that long, at least they have no idea how and how they can accomplish what they want, and they want protective measures, they want a full customs rate for certain products, they have no idea. We're sharing the brochures with the CEFTA. I call on you to be witnesses, the 8th is a new meeting that I invited the director of the Directorate for indirect taxation, plant protection, and veterinary, and food safety, and all control inspection bodies that I can, I can't order some additional analysis, compose the customs procedure, keeping the truck at the border, it's not popular to talk about. Let the media come, I can be reported for this, but I'm willing to react that way. They can, so we can show them where the space is. Why is "Bosnalijek" waiting in Serbia for 60 days, then 60 days gets consent to import drugs? Why is Vitinka waiting so long?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4270	And I ask those questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4271	Well, please, you'll see. Why is it incomparably more expensive in Serbia? Please come to the 8th meeting to see if there's a moduso to raise the services of our inspections, to be parity. I can't do it alone, but come see that there's a readiness, please, at the first meeting just as I took over this function. ... The businessmen say, Minister, we need blue diesel. It's no problem, in two days' time, a memo to the Secretary of Finance, is that right, where we're looking for the introduction of a blue diesel. Well a fantastic way, a concrete example of how to help domestic production. I get the consent of the Council of Ministers, the Management Board of the Board of Directly did not bring consent and, behold, it is not in the proposed Act on Excises passed by the Council of Ministers. Please, you respond, come on, so you mentioned, I mean, talk to me and you'll see the information. You just... don't do anything. How does he not do anything? Mrs. Majkić, where there are 10 million, 10 billion marks, nine and five hundred is not far from ten, but you should have looked at the analysis of the foreign trade exchange and noticed that it grew less in absolute terms than in 2006-2007. when we didn't have multilateral agreements and this is how we opened the market. And what is it, so only the naive could think that it could go without consequences. The adoption of legislation, the acquisition of candidate status by accessing IPA funds, is our option. You can't fight too much and successfully with protective measures by introducing customs. Here, let this law pass, you'll see what happens. CEFTA action plan? You've adopted it, both at home, which means one specific set of measures in charge of institutions, giving deadlines, determining activities. The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, if you had insight into it, was the highest part of the obligations of that document, which you adopted, divided. Use Parliament's strength, authority, and influence those who are not. 51 As for the Water Regulations, you are right. The Food Safety Agency is not an agency that is part of the Ministry, and it definitely needs to be done as soon as possible to bring these rules, so that we have something to catch up with, if we're going to go according to the principle of reciprocity. I'm ready for that, but there must be some conjecture. We don't have a rule book! You see how difficult it is, it's a sizif's job to get any regulation without speaking the law, past the Council of Ministers, not parliamentary procedure. We are not Croatia and Serbia, we have our specifics and understand the Ministry. If there are specific examples, I'm... ready for a deal. As for the brewers, please, it's not true for a year. It's not true. It's been a year since they filed that request, the brewers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4272	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4273	Let's not go into dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4274	Please just let me finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4275	Let the minister finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4276	Please. The brewers – well, you said at the beginning of the session that you didn't get a complete answer, I don't know, it's probably a process character error, and I've been adopted at the Council of Ministers with all the points you asked for, and you agreed, in the break, that there was some mistake here – long ago they should have been rejected with the documentation and with the evidence they made. Because, you see, the argument stands when the direct "Banjalučka brewery", which has filed a request and agrees with it, then there really is no room for doubt about these claims. I, believe me, didn't let them... get negative answers by now. Why? Because I care very much to show that there is another way, that there is an alternative... to what challenges this law. No Niko's been talking to this ministry this whole time, no one but the brewery. And I'm telling you, they didn't do the paperwork. Because if I suggest a Council of Ministers introducing a full customs rate, I sign that. Of course, CEFTA signatories will react in terms of their insight into the documentation provided. If there's a disturbance, I'll, I'm... Council of Ministers. I don't want to improvise, there's no joke. They were supposed to be rejected. I don't give it yet and the other day I explained at the meeting, let's try, if somewhere it's stuck in the sense of carrying out evidence, collecting documentation, if this Statistics Agency, the IRS, let me personally insist on it. And they're too happy to leave that meeting. I invite you once again eight to come to this meeting, to see how difficult it is to articulate their demands, because farmers and associations have a million in BiH, no associations, no chambers to say: yes, that's our requirement. The breeders of pigs from the RS want to remain the same legislation, the same rules, the Federation wants it liberalised by introducing tariff quotas. They fight 52 on their own at that meeting. Well, it's not an orderly state to say you do; Germany has five associations, a hundred million inhabitants and they say this is what we want. They can't agree on their own and then say, Minister, that's the decision. Come see, I invite you to see what the atmosphere is like and that it's not easy to determine what the businessmen want. Sugar passed, so the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' House was the 44th session, to make more (let me call, a list of desires of businessmen and needs) how to react in terms of reducing and increasing customs rates. And it was done, delivered, delivered for adoption. There are extended quotas, and that's a specific way of helping. I call you once again, the 8th will be the directors of all the agencies, to see who, where it's stuck, who's not ready for the principles of reciprocity, and we react, and everything else is here alone. No Niko's talking yet. Just recently, at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers passed this rule by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations where it clearly envisioned the existence of an organisational unit, it is called even Division, we wanted to give it importance, which will deal with safeguards and nothing else. But he'll hardly have a job, when no one's looking in one prescribed way to protect their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4277	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm also asking MPs who are now going to get word that we're not getting out of the topic. We're talking about the principles of the bill. Replica Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4278	So, I'm not, if I'm not mistaken, if I am, then I apologize; but I didn't mention anywhere in this presentation by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. I even heard positive things and I'm counting, but I had to, don't be angry if we're criticizing, this is a fact. This is a fact and don't try now... there's no story of us being silenced, no more of it. And another one, I'll be there at 8, what time is that? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4280	You'll get a call, it's off topic. Please, you'll get a call.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4281	Wait a minute, just something. So, the rules? Are they adopted by the Council of Ministers or the Ministry? That's what, at least you can't... you don't have it, that's your job. I allow you to have problems, and I remember through chamber 53.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4282	But Mr. Ibrahimpašić, I must, I must interrupt you. So we're talking here about the principles of law. So let go of the rules.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4283	Are you not letting me replicate?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4284	I can't give it to you, it's not a topic. The topic is the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production, a debate on principles. I'm sorry, but we have to respect the Rules of Procedure. The next word came from Mr. Vidović, then Mr. Zno, then Mr. Jović. I don't have any other reports. Here you go, Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4285	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be strictly on the subject. I am one of the representatives of the envoys who is not a farmer or beer producer or I am some sort of expert and lawyer in interpreting some legal solutions. I am an engineer who I approach about such important laws in a way that, before I say so, I collect the necessary consultations and with such thinking and I want to make it clear now that I am, as a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission, who supported the constitutional foundation, and I am obliged here to explain my reasons why I supported it, and one of those who was against the principles of this law on the relevant committee. So, the lawyers, two lawyers, have different interpretations on these issues, and when we discussed the constitutional legal basis for me, it was without question under the title of the Law on the Protection of Domestic Production, in fact, determined who would be against this law when we did not go into its principles but only in the interests of the citizens of BiH and that the Constitution clearly stated that foreign trade policy is in the jurisdiction of the BiH institutions, that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is where such laws are passed and that it gave me the idea that this law has a constitutional basis. However, when we came to the principles of this law and the opinions of the relevant institutions, therefore, which, in my view, are the most called in to BiH that we are not... deeply involved in this problem help, so, first of all, I think of the competent ministry, I mean the Directorate for European Integration, I think of the European Commission, etc., which has already been talked about, and all opinions have been given to me, and in fact it has not been possible to support the principles of this law, and in the first reading, because what is important to say is that today, in fact, BiH has concluded several hundred international contracts so far and that no specific law for its ratification and implementation has been passed in any case. So we know how international agreements were ratified, but this law directly affects its principles of implementing the international agreement. I don't think it's possible to edit matter in a way that's contrary to what's in the international treaty, and that's what I've said, I've made it clear to the competent institutions. But what 54 can threaten as a threat and those warnings we have received is actually what would happen if this law were passed and what possible consequences for BiH would follow. Likely, possible arbitration proceedings, and many are known that arbitration decisions are final and binding for all parties in the dispute. And, in the case of a negative arbitration decision in BiH, which is already to be suggested by these warnings that it could be negative, then of course the question opens, so who will be the one to bear the consequences of violations of international contracts and who would actually bear the financial consequences of the arbitration procedure. And there is a clear question for me about what BiH needs right now, arbitration and possible consequences, and, not to mention, much has been said. So today, when we declare these principles, I do not have enough arguments to support the principle of this law and I will vote, therefore, clearly and loudly against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4286	Thank you very much. Mr. Zrna, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4287	Thank you very much, if there's anything more to be added or taken away after this debate, even though I really thought we'd stay at the principle of this law. Unfortunately, we've had the debate, so if the law shows up in phase two, then we won't have to discuss it, because it's being discussed, it seems to me, until the end. It's not bad that we're this way, it's just bad that we even started counting around the law and on patriotism and patriotism, in a way of canned goods,... sugar and other things that are absolutely not good. It's not good to talk about these things with arguments for and arguments against, because, please, arguments for and arguments against fall off in front of the simple truth, in front of the fact. We just need to talk about facts, not arguments. Very often we have very strong and strong arguments for something that is simply inconclusive. So we simply have the fact that as a country, as a state, we have signed a CEFTA agreement that binds us as signatories. We've confirmed this agreement here, given him legitimacy and legality. Before discussing this law, gentlemen, submit a proposal to come out of the CEFTA Agreement as BiH, and then we will also discuss the Law on the Protection of Domestic Production under the CEFTA Agreement. Secondly, here it has opened, in fact, in the context of this law, a whole set of questions and problems that are objectively, which are objectively, and which are objectively ours. There's nothing to argue with my colleague Adem, that's all. But I ask the principle question: Do we have bureaucratic opportunities, do we have democratic apparatus, do we have democratic mechanisms that are not law, which are legal and legitimate?, and thus we open the question of course, we open the question, our own institutional impotences. Now, can we now argue with the law offered simply by us to amortise our own institutional impotence and say: Now we will dispute over the law with all because institutionally we are not able to protect ourselves, even to the extent that others are being protected, and we come, after all, we have entered a phase called the absurde phase, indeed the phase of absurde. I am going back to the principles that we are talking about today and the principles that we have to, because if I were to go further, it would not go from the report of our Constitutional Commission, which in any 55 words alone, has not concluded that the law is directed or has to... to the signed agreement, but only an explanation, says, has unanimously established the following, so stands valid; if there is a constitutional one, then there is no valid legal basis for the application of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4288	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. Mr. Jović, then Professor Neimarlija. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4289	Thank you very much. Well, I've had a long two-way call or not, but I'll try for a while because I saw that distinguished colleagues have entered the second stage of this conversation today. I'd like to show, and this beauty, how I love my country. So there's no dilemma, I love my country, and I won't support this. A reason? The proposer of this law convinced me deeply not to support it. And the reason first: the drought and the harvesting of cereals further worsened the situation, so the Republic of Croatia and Serbia have enough grains, then we are forced to buy on the world market. Does this mean if we don't buy in Serbia and Croatia, we'll do better if we buy on the world market. So it's good to buy anywhere but these two countries. The promoter himself shows that. If in the finding that agricultural imports are about 51% from these two countries, where they will buy those 49%, where they buy 49%, and we will put these two countries on a pillar of shame as far as trade is concerned, and that 49% should. Instead of the principle that we are putting CEFTA countries in the same position as these two countries. Furthermore, it is very happy to read: 'Analyzing previous years, the exchange of agricultural products and goods with abroad is growing from year to year. The most important export partners are Serbia and Croatia', it is being established. And that, it's listed by... product recognition, etc. And then crucially, or a conclusion that could paint everything, a proposal like this, and, on my part, support those who say that we should take care of things at home. We can't blame Paris for being cloudy here. And here's the absurd. Our BiH agriculture is burdened by poor coordination of BiH institutions. What do we get by adopting this law, will we improve the coordination of our institution? We won't. Poor incentive measures, absence of coordination, no speech. The delicacy of agricultural properties? Will we, by this law, increase our defiled estates? Eliminate fuel charges? Will the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia in BiH lift taxes and charges on fuel used in the production of agricultural production or should we do so? If Bog didn't pass this law, would BiH be a wider door for access funds? Because everyone who looks at us will say: a country that does not respect international contracts is not welcome for a partner. I am deeply convinced that if this law were to pass, not that we would be open to wider access funds but that what is open to us would be closed. And, again, the conclusion of one that was offered and hospitalized here would be significant, so in the event of the adoption of this law and the relationship to this whole thing, it would mean the preparation and survival of... a group of agricultural production in BiH, strengthening competitiveness and preparing for a fair match. 56 Well, if we cannot go with those countries that are in our situation, which are being prepared in the EU, so what will we be able to wait for? That's why I'm suggesting, if there's no coffee plantation in BiH, how it's possible that whoever's driving it is far cheaper than who's making it here. Coffee is a world product, here it is processed, processed and the market offers. Now how do we protect our neighbors from bringing us coffee and the cheaper ones? Do we make it our... or, I don't know, resin and rubber? I mean, I'm just confused, I can't understand this. Maybe, so be my modesty in thinking.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4290	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Professor Neimarlija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4291	I'm going to try to be as unscathed as possible and avoid getting away from the principle and, yes, here I am, saying that I'm not a businessman and that it makes it easier for me to do this eskicipation, so to speak, concrete terrains. Of course, as a citizen and a citizen of BiH and I are in pain of this discrepancy in, say, the exchange of BiH, first of all, with neighbouring countries, but I also have absolutely no illusions that we can be fully equal with Serbia and Croatia in any quantitative sense. However, today's debate, when we had this draft law on the Constitutional Commission, I have asked with more questions than the promoter to clarify mine, in fact, to clarify to me... which I had a priori resistance to this bill. He helped me in part, in part today's discussions convinced me that I would do the right thing by voting for the principles of this law for the simple reason that I believe that we could still understand ourselves in the need that no one should prove here or patriotism economically, or that someone was building political points on this economic patriotism right now. I think we got along and we proved it. But I also think that we have convinced ourselves that we should also convince the public that we as representatives of the most legislative and representative authorities in this country care that for all possible problems in our society are looking for legal solutions, exclusively legal solutions. And that the highest instance of finding legal solutions, if others are not there, is this Parliament. I want to understand this bill, and after this debate, I want to allow myself to do it in a way that makes sense. We are all aware of the terrible imbalance in exchange for, above all, neighbouring countries. And we are all also aware of the simple facts, and I justify my vote for the principles, that the CEFTA Agreement provides us Adem, precisely, the possibility of finding a mechanism to reduce imbalances. And, by my judgment, the positive understanding of this initiative that we can really gather around is the need to find solutions to mitigate an imbalance that we cannot bear. We can't remove it, just work. I would, of course, have no illusions about how we can be even in both formal and quantitative, in the formal assumptions that we will have, not to repeat how much this is all here, as far as it's been told, how far it's all up to us and how they've actually been having the debate and they've fully represented the same, let's say, Minister Zirojević and colleague Adem around these simple regulations. Watch out, rule! This impotence of ours, as states, compared to one rule? But that's a fact. 57 So, if we can't, if we can't do these other measures (I'm not sure that this law is right, I won't judge the content of the law) but the need to try to run or find mechanisms to mitigate this balance in a way or legal way. I think we have the right to do that and even have a duty. So I appeal that, here, we do not exploit this problem in a way that proves or challenges someone's patriotism, but that we try to understand it, among other things, and I would say politically, in a way that Parliament is an instance of representative democracy that no one can dispute, after all, whatever decision it is, that it is subjugated or that it has subjugated some kind of economic lobby. All other cases are, in some ways, more susceptible, let's say, possible accusations, regardless of how generally in BiH we are beaten by that voice that we are or are actually suffering, in fact, simply if nothing, judgment or conviction and the fact that we are as politicians suspect. But I do believe that this is a way of reacting to a terrible imbalance, I wouldn't say the details, but let's just say the terrible facts, which should really be binding on us, which we have heard here today, with, say, keeping the beer truck, I don't know how long, or asking for approval for something from the EU, which is not reciprocally set. Therefore, here I had the need to fence this law of bidding and, let's say, with this patriotism of ours, on the one hand, but, on the other hand, to introduce it into this obligation that we must indeed take care of: the formal argument of the interests of the citizens of BiH... Niko of us have the right to accuse Serbia and Croatia if they use informal, I don't know, measures that don't comply with the law, if they use regulations, if they use blocking opportunities, for obstructions, none of us, we don't have the right to blame them, but we have the right to seek and find these opportunities. If these options are not at lower levels, then this is kind of an attempt to protest in the way of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4292	Thank you very much, Professor Neimarlija. So, Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. Want another word after that? Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4293	It's essentially a replica. We've been talking here all this time about non-tariff barriers like they're allowed. CEFTA doesn't allow those barriers either, but they're not seen as customs barriers, just to be clear. Not that CEFTA non-tariff barriers, but they're very hard to spot and only feel them when they're exporting what's happening to him and how it's happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4294	Thank you very much, Mr. Ibrahimpašić. Minister Vrankić. Here you go, Mr. Minister. You've been waiting a long time. You let the MPs say what they want. Here you go. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4295	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished representatives, guests, since I am here today, I can say, in a double role, as the chairman of the Management Board of the Irregular Taxation Board, because this matter is being touched, and Mr Špirić is absent, so I will refer to this one of the next points on behalf of the Council of Ministers. And here, allow me a few words and my opinion on this. When it comes to the procedural part, I must say that there is no fair agreement on the transfer of jurisdiction. Naima, the Management Board has not given consent to this law, and that is an indirect violation of the Constitution, since you know that the competencies of the entities on which this area is transferred to the Administration, and that is one of the obligations that, I must say, although we have spoken in writing, I see that no one has mentioned, here, I just want correctness to say. On the other hand, here's a few words. Maybe, I'm afraid this whole debate didn't go the wrong way and I agree with this that no one should prove their patriotism here. I don't actually let anyone have a cantar to measure me and, if I'm gonna measure myself, then I put myself first. What I'd like to remind you of, and I don't think I'm going to hurt you if I say that, simply that we are in our transition, and not just us, but the whole region, taking a market approach and going to the free market. In that free market, I'll remind you as finance minister, that customs almost don't exist. One small percentage of total public revenues are waste on customs, but there are other benefits. That's what they'd say if we were going back to that process that has both carrots and beatings. The beating is exactly what you're talking about. A merciless market that sweeps everyone in front of it, destroys the weak, who must be ready and able to resist it. What's a carrot? The carrots are, simply put, agreements, one of them is exactly the CEFTA you mention, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and from all that and previous processes where we were supported by the international community on this road. So I'm just going to remind you of the billions of donations that BiH received, so I'm going to remind you of billions of loans under IDA terms, so I'm going to remind you of the billions of grant we've received, so I'm going to remind you of the IPA that is now current, which we signed for 2007 and 2008. (130 million marks for some 57 projects that are currently related to this structural adjustment). And I absolutely don't support any administrative barrier from other countries. I am one of those who publicly and bilaterally protested against Croatia, if she did so. And she worked, I remember well when the wine couldn't be carried out in Hercegovina because it didn't have the necessary documentation. But it's not Croatia, it's our fault, gentlemen. We don't do it, we don't do it. We are such a country, I think my colleague Zirojević explained very well, and in that context I think we are going the wrong way, we will not achieve anything through customs. We're gonna make a big problem, we're gonna do ourselves some damage, and we're gonna get back to the beginning, and that's not good. I'll just remind you of one little thing and the fact that it's fresh. Instead of adapting ourselves, to be trained and reciprocated through these regulations, if someone does this to us, and they will do it until we do it, be safe, because it is a law of interest, and, on the other hand, instead of dealing with speculation or false measures, I will remind you that as minister, I proposed the French, a few months ago, the Guarantee Fund Act, the law on... the credit agency, the supplementation, where I had the concept to secure a few, here I am now saying, 59 hundred maybe millions of marks through international institutions to form it precisely in support of our exports and domestic production – the laws fell in Parliament. Not in this, but in the one who supported this law. Here, it's a real example of how you shouldn't work. And that's why I'd just ask, in the background of what the minister said, let's institutionally build, let's talk. If we're going to talk about ending up having some lobby in agreement with someone at the table provide some 50 tariffs or five companies to get some quotas, then we're on the wrong track. We'll do more damage to ourselves. Let's build a system, build institutions, talk, perform together on the market, that's the only way. It's not easy, we're in big trouble and because of the economic crisis, but what we need to be aware of is that we have to do it ourselves, we can't deliver it to anyone. I can say on behalf of the Council of Ministers that I am standing in a position, the Council of Ministers stands and we will try to do what is expected of us as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4296	Thank you very much, Minister Vrankić. Mr Ibrahimpašić, turn off your microphone. Anybody else want a word? We have this proposal for Mr. Rančić's conclusion. There is another proposal for a conclusion that I made on the typing, until then Mr. Rajić wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4297	Nothing, I'd like to thank my colleague, Rančić, for delivering the proposal for a conclusion. I accept 100% of his conclusion, just so this is a previous procedure before the law is declared, not after. Here, that's it. So I'm staying with this same conclusion, with it being a previous procedure, before we go into making legal decisions. And of course, like my colleague Rančić, I'm going to ask the House to declare it, so fate as it is. So, the same conclusion I'm just asking to be the previous store.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4298	Thank you. I understand that there's a conclusion, and we're not making a statement about the law in the first reading. My conclusion, which I have proposed, is a protective measure of harmfulness for BiH. If the law goes through in the first reading, then I'll suggest that conclusion. It's typing. I am obliged to put on a statement and a proposal for Mr. Rančić's conclusion and ask him if he wants to accept this supplement that Mr. Rajić said. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4299	I cannot accept, Your Honor, the chairman. So, when I was speaking, I also told my colleagues that we should support the adoption of the law in the first reading, with the adoption of this proposed conclusion, which gives the possibility to the Executive Authority, the Council of Ministers, the Resolute Ministry, to take appropriate measures in accordance with all the positive regulations. And if they go in the right direction, both Parliament and one and another home are satisfied, then, in accordance with that, and besides that, we will declare ourselves concerning the amendment and the second reading of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4300	Thank you very much. As far as I'm concerned, here's what Mr. Rajić said, and I believe that's supported by the whole Croatian Club. Your proposal for a conclusion is a regular obligation of the real authorities, the relevant ministry and others to resolve these problems in coordination with them. That's not what we're talking about. But you have the right to your opinion. Mr. Rajić, do you need to suggest your conclusion? Let it be rejected, but suggest it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4301	Okay, I'm, the conclusion is exactly the same as Mr. Rančić's proposal, with me considering it to be a previous procedure, so if it doesn't satisfy us, then we're going to go to law review.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4302	Thank you very much. So, I must, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, put on a plea, first, a bill in the first reading of principles. Have we exhausted the debate? Does anyone else want to make a decision just before joining? He doesn't want anyone. I'm closing the debate. I find that we have three conclusions, so now that we've decided on the law in the first reading. Who is "for" the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production within the CEFTA Agreement in the first reading? Four, seven, eight, enough entity majority. Who Is “against ”? The "against" is five and "abstained". So this law has received support in the first reading. I am obliged to put on the vote on the proposal for a conclusion, firstly, Mr. Rančić. Am I gonna read it or are you gonna read it? The manuscript is, if I'm wrong, correct me. 61 The proposal for a conclusion reads: "It is up to the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry that due to market disturbances and a huge deficit and in the mutual exchange of agricultural products, it is up to the Council of Ministers to take action to find appropriate solutions in the direction of protecting agricultural production in BiH." Is it accurate? Who is "for" the proposal for a conclusion? That's eight. Who is “against ” this conclusion? Five. The conclusion was supported. Would you like some, sir? Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4303	I think there's probably no intention of making a mistake. My conclusion had to go before stating the principles of the law, because he meant delaying the statement of principles. However, since we have the result that the principles have been accepted, then it is pointless to now plead my conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4304	That's why I asked you. My suggestion of a conclusion is to type, but I have a text in front of me, I can read it. So now he's playing, because the law was passed in the first reading. I propose the conclusion in the following form: 'It is up to the Council of Ministers to urgently carry out the necessary consultations with the Signatory States of the CEFTA Agreement, in accordance with the procedures laid down in the CEFTA Agreement, and to inform the CEFTA House of the possible consequences of BiH in the event of the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Domestic Production under the CEFTA Agreement in the proposed form. Until then, the bill of law will not be discussed in another reading." My proposal for a conclusion is a stalemate in the event of excessive damage to BiH if such a response comes from CEFTA's signatories to the Council of Ministers. There is nothing harmful in it, nothing bad but an attempt to prevent the harmful consequences that BiH may be threatening. And about when the Council of Ministers, the resolution ministry and other factors, so and in how these consultations are done, I think the procedures are prescribed and that the procedures themselves in the CEFTA Agreement do not last long. They're even said to be treated in haste. So this is my proposal for a conclusion. Do you want me to read it again? Shall we wait for the text to come in writing?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4305	We'll wait. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4306	We'll wait. Thank you very much. Here comes the text very soon, until we hear Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4307	Dear Chairman, on the basis of listening to your proposal for a conclusion, I would like to state my opinion, therefore, on the proposed conclusion. Number one, your conclusion prejudges that we will pass this law. I hope so, but there you go, but it's still prejudicial. Secondly, your conclusion gives the Council of Ministers the wrong direction. Instead of focusing on borrowing the Council of Ministers to work in the affirmative direction to find measures and solutions to protect agricultural production, we want to task the Council of Ministers to record possible negative consequences. Third thing, you suggest that we do exactly the opposite of the Rules of Procedure to carry out the rest of the procedure, i.e. The second reading of this law. There is a possibility, and I wouldn't be determining myself now, when both the College and the House can extend the possible amendment phase and the reasons, but these three reasons are, as I have listed, the reason why we can't support your proposed conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4308	Here, until the text arrives, it will come very soon, so let me rephrase it to you, to tell you that by accepting your conclusion, it has been given the Council of Ministers' assignment and there is no delay. People will work to remove the damages we already have or which we might have. I don't prejudge with this conclusion anything. So, I just want to detect in the dialogue the most responsible authorities of this country's executive body with the signatories of the CEFTA Agreement. It says there to consult with them and with a special committee, to create these consultations and get potential threats that BiH could face. What's wrong with that? So, I've said possible consequences for BiH. If there's anything wrong with it, I don't see anything wrong with it. And until then, let's stop, that's the third thing you say, to stop putting this law on the agenda in the second reading, because it's Home that can postpone second reading with its conclusion. We have provisions in the Rules of Procedure where Dom has that authority. So I'm not prejudged on the matter that he'll be voted on. It will be if it is said there will be no major damage to BiH, so of course there will be. Here we have, I'll sign it, you'll get it now in a few minutes, so we can discuss the text of this conclusion, it seems very much too much. Here's Mrs. Majkić's proposal to take a break for lunch, so let's think about it, though, we'll take this conclusion, and then we'll have lunch, we'll think about the proposal for a conclusion, possibly 63 on his suggestion, and then we'll decide on the conclusion. So, lunch break. How long is lunch enough for us to see?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4309	An hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4310	An hour. So now it's 4:30 in the hall.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4311	When are we gonna get this?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4312	You'll get it right away, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4313	Somebody get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4314	They'll bring it to the Home Service Clubs.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4315	Let him bring down for lunch.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4316	Or down in the dining room. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4317	Are we waiting for something else?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4318	Wait a minute. I'm asking the MPs to take their seats. There's no Koprivica, there's no.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4319	No, he's gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4320	We'll get back to work. We'll get back to work, we've broken through six minutes again. We've got a quorum. The conclusion I suggested was typed... it's in front of you. I'm opening a debate on this conclusion. Who wants a word? Mr Ibrahimpašić, please. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4321	If we could end up like this: 'It is up to the Council of Ministers to urgently consult with the Signatory States of the CEFTA Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement', and point. If that's the way it works, I'd vote for something like this. And that someone will tell us what the damage is, so we're not taking kids. We know what we're going to.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4322	We heard Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. Who wants another word? Mr. Božo Rajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've tried a little bit in the pause to see if there's any chance of making a compromise, to reshape this conclusion, if necessary, in a certain way. It seems to me that Mr Ibrahimpašić has already suggested something in this regard, although I did not realize whether he thought that after this text the rest of the text should be deleted or not. I thought it might be an acceptable solution, respecting the proposal made by Mr. Rančić, however, he, in my understanding, is a task which is a continuous process in the work of the Council of Ministers, so it is a matter of concern for the protection of domestic production, for everything that belongs to domestic forces and opportunities, and that this is an ad hoc task. It seems to me that it could be a compromise to say this first part of the text: 'To be in charge of the Council of Ministers to urgently carry out the necessary consultations with the CEFTA Signatory States, in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement and the results of these talks, inform this House', therefore, not of the adverse nor of the consequences, but of the results to inform and that... this second part should be left until the deadline, to give a reasonable time limit within which the Council of Ministers is to be held, to inform the House and until then to extend the deadline for the second stage. These two suggestions, so to avoid these words of 'harmful consequences', to give a deadline, and to keep this the way it is, and then it would be about like what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4324	It is also acceptable for me to set a reasonable deadline and, after that reasonable period, to put the law on the agenda in the second reading unless there is therefore any information from the rest of the ministry on this matter, and to delete this 'until then, mentioning the bill will not go into debate, but when that time has passed' (i.e. we will go to another reading). So, to me, it's as the author of the proposal for a conclusion acceptable. Who wants another word? _________(?) Let's make a statement. 65 I'd like to make some kind of agreement on this conclusion. If there is no deal, turn it down, so, but he has a significant goal. A significant goal to get out of the problems we're going to get into if that's possible. That's the intensity of this conclusion. On the side of arguments and pro and... the opposite, yes. So we heard about and against, we heard. But I read carefully before my opening presentation and today's session of all the standards that warn us how the CEFTA Agreement is implemented. I'm afraid of our hasty decisions. This would give us some time not to make the biggest mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4326	Here, can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4327	Here you go, Dušanka. Let's try to come to a compromise a little bit. Let's try and respect each other's arguments. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4328	I'm really asking to bring this discussion to an end on this agenda point. What we don't know is what's going to happen, what will our neighbors do at the moment when we start discussing the subject. It's clear what he's going to do. They'll say they'll use all the mechanisms against us. Are we going to come up with any new knowledge that might come in favor of that? Oh, yeah, we're going to have those duty-free barriers we've been using for so many years today, we're going to destroy them because that's what BiH has been begging us to do. We won't get that answer. So, what do we get? So we're delaying our position on this important issue, and we can't get anything in return, we can't get anything else. I'm begging you, really, if there was one percent chance that this situation was getting out of our favor, I would support it with both hands. I know we won't get anything and that as long as they don't get the countermeasures, they'll continue to act the same way, and I'm asking you to finish this story and get to the vote to move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4329	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Rajić, then Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4330	Okay, I respect Mrs. Majkić's right to advocate that this story ends. I advocate that this story ends as much as possible with minor adverse consequences. So, I think neither Mr Filipović nor I nor the others who are in favour of trying to find a compromise are defending our post-spot position. I don't know, I can't argue whether we're going to get anything with it or not, but we're going to get something on credibility as a state, as its bodies, because we're going to do a 66 that we haven't conducted in the previous procedure before the motion of this law appears, at least in the subsequent procedure, we're going to talk to the neighbors, which is what the CEFTA Agreement obliges us to do, and then their arguments, if they continue to act like that, fall before us here, and then we're going to pass that law. The point of that conclusion is, Mrs. Majkić, that we show that we are ready to talk in accordance with the CEFTA Agreement that we have signed and if there is no result then we need it here in Parliament. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4331	Thank you very much. Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4332	It's me. I just wanted to say it for a little while. The truths are ahead of us. The Council of Ministers, the competent ministry, the Directorate for European Integration, the EU and everyone gave their view of the law and said it is harmful to BiH. In all that glue, we're missing more thinking about CEFTA's signatories. So no one is chasing BiH to be a CEFTA member. Well, let's get out of CEFTA and that would be better than embarrassing ourselves like this! Why would BiH have this kind of indignity? We get out of CEFTA and we're done. But if we have any sense of doing a quality job, then we're going to ask those countries with whom we signed that contract to show or to join this thing that I've listed as harmful or will say, well, the law can go the way it is. Why, where are we in a hurry? It's never too late to fall and fall.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4333	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4334	I have requested here by paper that Article 23 bis and it reads as follows: 'No matter what the other provisions of this Agreement,' therefore CEFTA, 'based on Article 23, given the particular sensitivity of the agricultural market, if imports of products originating in one side, which are subject to concessions granted in accordance with Annex 3, cause serious market disturbances or domestic regulatory mechanisms on the other side, both parties will immediately consult to find an appropriate solution.' And last sentence: 'In the expectation of such a solution the relative side', it is to me, 'it can take the appropriate measures it deems necessary.' So nobody forbids us to take measures and talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4335	Why didn't you say a member? 67
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4336	Article 23 bis. Thank you. _________(?) Let's open the conversation first, and then we'll lead. Well, here, we'll open up, we didn't pass the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4338	Wait a minute, if I could help with one thing, I'd say two things. First, by proposing my conclusion, which is before you, in the first sentence, I do not direct the Council of Ministers to consult with the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, because they are mentioned as Member States, which are practically, in which they are most exported, from which the most imports of BiH, where they are most exported, are mentioned. So here I prefer the discussion and the necessary consultations with the CEFTA members. And, as already respected counterpart Ibrahimpašić read article 23, so one article cannot be observed and it points to consultations. Articles 24, not to mention the second, paragraph 42 to 52, shall read as follows: 'Before the launch of the procedure for implementing the measures provided for in Articles 20, 21 and 23, the Parties shall endeavour to resolve any differences between them through direct consultations.' So, please, with my proposal for a conclusion, I suggest that the Council of Ministers, as our state government, the most responsible executive body, consult. So what's the harm in that? So who's that bothering? Therefore, point 3 states: ‘No damage pursuant to paragraph (7) of this Article’, so this article has seven items, ‘the party intending to apply the measures provided for in Articles 20, 21 and 23.', so it is us, 'it will immediately inform any, or party and the Joint Committee, and provide all relevant information. The Joint Committee will examine without delay, be careful, without delay, means a hasty, 'examination of the case, and may make any recommendation necessary to end the difficulties that have been reported.' So please, I ask you: let us be fair to the end, hear and judge and judge the argument that I make to you. This proposal is based on the CEFTA Agreement. I'm just asking you to keep that in mind. I'm not asking anything else from you. I won't be too careful, I want to warn, so I have knowledge that by adopting this law without any prior talks, agreements, consultations, etc. with members could be big. We knock on the door and ask for EU candidate status. In a way like this, I'm afraid we're closing and unopened doors. I'm terribly sorry. I'd like to get out of those shells a little bit, frames, discipline, orders, party options, we have options, we have standards ahead of us. Let us read these standards in a way or understand them as is the essence of the Agreement. I can't squeeze myself here to the extreme that I can't speak, I have the most honorable intentions here, to stop one harmful law, so we don't bring it, and until we've made some kind of preconditions, we've taken steps to have as few consequences as possible from such a law. 68 So, I'm not closing the debate, I'm letting all of you say so. If you say you don't want to talk anymore, I'll put this conclusion to the statement. We can all decide how we want it if we don't want the arguments. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the proposal for a conclusion ahead of you. So, the conclusion of Ilija Filipović, please. Who is “for ” this conclusion? Five from the Federation. Who is “against ” this conclusion? So the rest of the Federation, Bošnjak and Srbin are not up to this conclusion, Hrvat are up to speed. The conclusion didn't go through. I'm sorry. We're going to the next item on the agenda: ad. 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of BiH (first reading), Proposer: House of Representatives The House of Representatives is the proposer of this law, so he accepted it as such. You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. This is our first reading. And I would now ask Mr. Jović to as chairman of the Constitutional Commission if he has a need. Here you go, Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4340	: In order to rationalise time, everything is written and I stand behind what is written.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4341	Is there a need for the proposer of this law? There isn't. I'm opening a debate, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4342	Can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4344	Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you that this is the second time that this law comes into parliamentary procedure. Mr. Huskić of the House of Representatives was a proponent and we explained to him why this law cannot be adopted like this, because, let me remind you, at the 21st session of the House of Peoples, we adopted a conclusion saying: "The House of Nations asks the Council of Ministers to organise 69 BiH Official Journal as a new BiH institution to be financed from the budget, and all the income achieved by this institution to go in favour of the BiH budget." I asked the minister of justice how far he came with that law and he said the law was over. What would it mean if we passed a law like this if the laws published in the Official Messenger were published on both the Internet and free of charge to the public. Different countries have different ways of resolving the issue of official texts. Some countries betray it for free and then publish it on an official website, and other countries charge its..., publishing as we did yesterday. Which of the measures should it be? That's what we said, we left the Council of Ministers to decide what is more appropriate from the aspect of BiH institutions, and the minister told me that the law is finished, so in a few days it goes into parliamentary procedure, so I think it would pass a law like this that would practically bring down a company called the Official Journal with vaguely defined status would be unnecessary now before the new law comes in to regulate this matter. So here, we will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4345	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Mr. Rančić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4346	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, therefore, we have before us a bill on... the addition of the Law on the Official Rule of BiH. This law is very short and it foresees, i.e., the possibility and obligation to publish the adopted rules on the Internet and that they are free of charge to the public. So this is the essence of this law, and it will lead to all citizens or other legal persons being as easily, faster, more efficient and cheaper as possible, so that citizens can get acquainted with them, so that they can comply with the provisions of these regulations and that they can exercise their rights and protect them, and based on what regulations are available to them to get to them as easily as possible. The question of legal status and regulation of legal status, when it comes to this public enterprise, is absolutely not touched by this law and, of course, I remember that conclusion and our efforts to settle this issue in an appropriate way so that this company is very efficient, whether, business, but that thing doesn't need to be mixed with this thing. This law that makes it possible to publish the rules on the Internet, and that free of charge for the entire public, will not question...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4347	You finish, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4348	May I? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4349	Of course, of course. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4350	...will not question the functioning of this company. I can speak from my own experience, because a few years ago I did a similar job, I was a secretary at the Tuzlan Canton Assembly, and with the support of the entire Assembly we managed to do this thing in a way that we had passed the proper regulation, that we had collected all the regulations of the Tuzlan Canton Assembly, all the decisions, all the acts, published them on the website and made them available to all citizens and anyone who wanted to use them. On the other hand, some fear or argument that this way of applying regulations will lead to a crisis in the financial way of doing business for these businesses is not true, I am almost saying absolutely out of practice that there has been no disturbance in this case regarding financial operations in this part. So here I propose that we support this law and allow citizens to make it as easy as possible, whether to come and get acquainted with the regulations to rule it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4351	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić began to replicate as you spoke, and now you will hear the final replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4352	Mr. Rančić, when you're saying this now, it's obvious that you're one of the people who doesn't use the Internet, because to use it, you'd know the basic thing: the moment this law comes out on the Internet, it becomes public, and there's no more man, no more legal person, no more natural person coming to pay the amount for the Official List. What she'd pay for, when she's on the Internet, she can take whatever she needs. So, you're looking for, this means this harmless sentence that looks like this when it's read by someone who doesn't really know what it means: that from today, when we adopt this law, the law is public and no one buys it anymore. Thus, the House of Nations assumes responsibility that there are no more centers of an institution called the Official Journal. There's no money left, no one's gonna buy them anymore. The state itself must determine which version it wants: will it still be paid or will it be free? But that's the thing to bring the Council of Ministers. They need to analyze what's more acceptable to the state. So, be aware that this, by this decision, if we support this, we are not solving any legal status, and we are just dealing with the Council of Ministers, but this decides that as of today, if we vote on the day of publication in the Official Journal, we are done talking about paying the Official List, there is no more. So we have everyone sitting here and all citizens have the possibility of using this note for free. So if that's the point, then it's okay. So we need to know that this company and those people who work there don't exist anymore, because there's nothing more to finance. They now have 10 million profits, or 6 million pure profits. So someone has to say they're going to finance themselves further. Here, in the end, here is Mr. Vrankić, so let him say from the point of view of finance if he wants to. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4353	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić, the replica short, so that's Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4354	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4355	Turn on the microphone, you can't hear anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4356	So, you could have at least been through the discussion, if you'd listened to me, heard that as Secretary of the Tuzla Canton Assembly, I provided this kind of thing without ever using it, I don't know how to provide it. So it's so much about using the Internet. The second thing, you theoretically state that it will be brought into financial danger by a company called the Public Enterprise News Organisation, is not the Official Journal of BiH. You're saying that without adequate indicators, and I'm telling you responsibly from practice, in cases from practice that I've done to put the rules on the Internet in a way that all citizens can use it is not and will not put anyone who publishes it and who sells it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4357	It will.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4358	But that's not the point either. So, even if what you're predicting is, we need to know that the law, therefore, begins with the Constitution, and international acts, and all laws, regulations, etc. It is not a matter which is the property of Parliament of this or any lower, but rather the things that we bring in for all citizens, which all citizens need to meet, and by which all citizens should rule and, in accordance with them, achieve and protect their rights, and even, therefore, at the cost of this state establishing an institution, an organisation, a company that will do all this, and in a way that we finance it with the funds from the budget. I think it'll be a good benefit and a good thing. We are obliged to allow citizens to have information. How will the citizens behave according to one law if they don't have a chance to read it? How it will exercise its right, etc., etc.? But I am responsibly telling you from practice that publication of the law on the Internet and their availability to anyone without charge did not lead to a crisis of whoever published it and sold it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4359	We'll see. He's right in front of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4360	Thank you very much. Mr. Jović, then Mrs. Čolo. 72 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4361	I must say, Mr. President, that I was not surprised at all, so I can say and confused. On the last proposal by Mr Hasić, whether, Huskić suggested, it was then disputed by the same speakers as my predecessors that the legitimacy of the institution was read and, on the other hand, that it was, now suddenly the situation changed. Those who said it wasn't legitimate, are now protecting interests in finance, and those who said it was legal, see, will not be damaged. Well, somehow I can't manage to define myself, but I have to tell you that I am eager and obliged to define myself as pro-European BiH. If we are, it seems, here we are trying to get out of CEFTA's European path, so let's not have our children in the intellectual sense, because what we're going to do is we're making laws for all BiH citizens, that a citizen can be consulted, informed, and when he needs what he needs to have on him and attach where he needs it to get what's printed in the paper. Let us not hinder the public of our work, the information of the citizens of BiH in a modern, modern way, thank Bog, so we can do this. I thought I wouldn't have the need to pick up, so I said it was all written here, we supported it on the Committee, I just thought we'd vote. Can we prevent the modernisation of the future?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4362	I gotta go again, I mean, I'm really sorry, but I can't listen...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4363	Replica, second time. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4364	One more, I'm sorry, I didn't just finish, and 10 million surpluses in the official paper last year, 10 million.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4365	Mrs. Dušanka, replica next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4366	Mr. Jović, I have no objection to what you said when it comes to the transparency of everything that an official enterprise or institution is, I don't know what it is and it's nothing, what it does. I don't have a single remark about it being on the Internet, but someone has to say who's gonna pay for it. If the Council of Ministers says, okay. It will pay the Council of Ministers or it says that the budget will fund it, wonderfully, it's the best thing that can happen. But you can't make a decision that it's all for free without anyone saying how it's gonna be paid. That's what I'm talking about. Secondly, his status is unclear, but it will be resolved by the Council of Ministers, and I will not deal with the team. I'm just saying what kind of repercussion this law takes if it gets published and no one buys it anymore. There's no more one cent to that facility. That's all I'm saying. Somebody tell us how it's gonna be paid, we're all gonna raise our hands for it. Is someone going to finance it from the Council of Ministers, the budget, and we've solved the problem. All citizens have access then. No one's against it, don't speak wrong. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4367	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mrs. Čolo and then Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4368	Well, I didn't know the debate about this one short bill would last this long. I understand Mrs. Majkić's reasons. But the Public Business Official Journal of BiH does not only issue the Official Journal of BiH, but also the Official Journal of the Federation and the Official Journal of Canton, so the Federation Government and its Official Journal of the Federation published and published regularly on its website, so that the Federation government did not worry about who would make up for this money to the Public Enterprise. So is Canton Sarajevo. ... I think all the cantons in the Federation are publishing their regulations in this Official Journal of BiH, they didn't worry, they have websites on their websites. I think they're making a lot of money from advertising, and I don't think they're going to get much damage by passing this law. I wish we were like the Republic of Croatia; therefore, you type the National Journal, all the regulations of the Republic of Croatia are available to you on the Internet and you can see them and I think this company should make this money, which will lose by public publication of the Official Messenger of BiH on its website, to make up for the lengthy funds, by publishing public ads. They do it very well. So I would like us to support this law and go towards the internet of BiH and publish all the rules on the Internet.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4369	Mr Ibrahimpašić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4370	Well, here, I think we can reconcile this situation. I understand Mrs. Majkić's concern, but what if the company fails, let's just get back to normal. But please, how would I know what obstacles we've been facing with these non-tariff barriers if I didn't have online Croatian legislation as a whole and regulations, etc. I think it'd be good if we had that, too, so anyone who's interested in seeing where his government is wrong, so we'll come up with some things easier. But if it were to blow up the company, I wouldn't vote either. So, I suggest we adopt this in our first reading, because we all think this is good, and until the second reading, to show the government... whether the company will go to the helicopter. If he goes to the helicopter, I'll vote against him. Is he all right?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4371	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill, so one article, so the fifth is the most important thing here. 74 Who is “for” such a bill?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4372	With this conclusion, as I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4373	We'll talk about the conclusion later. So who is “against ”? "Contained"? Two is "against", we don't have enough entity council. Consensus after the College meets. We haven't decided anything yet, so we won't even decide on the conclusion. Moving to point 15. Ad. 15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers You've received the bill of law and the opinion of the Committee. The House of Representatives accepted the bill in the first reading. If you have needs, Mrs. Majkić?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4375	I don't know, I don't know if you would.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4376	Proposer of the Council of Ministers' Law, is there a need? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this law on the line in the first reading. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted the bill in the first reading. Point 16 is: Ad. 16. Proposal for a Law on Postage of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You've received the bill of law and the opinion of the Committee. The House of Representatives adopted this law in the first reading. 75 Is there a need for the Committee, the Proposer? I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. When we had the first Post Law, it was a debate that lasted a few hours. Who is "for" this Post Law proposal? Unanimity. I find that we accepted the bill unanimously in our first reading. Moving to point 17. Ad. 17. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4384	Mr. President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome you as the chairman of the Council of Ministers and briefly present what the Council of Ministers did last year. I also consider this a good opportunity to improve the co-operation of the BiH Council of Ministers and Parliament. During 2008, the Council of Ministers held 39 regular, 6 thematic sessions on which 1,132 agenda points were discussed, of which 1 106 points on regular sessions and 26 points on the thematic sessions. The Council of Ministers also set out in the parliamentary procedure 60 drafts of the law, established and addressed to the adoption of 39 proposals for international contracts, 134 proposals for the basis for negotiating and... international contracts, adopted 7 strategic documents, adopted 200 decisions, 16 solutions, established 87 proposals for decisions on ratification of international contracts, adopted 17 regulations, confirmed 8 and agreed on 11, discussed and adopted 161 information from different fields, as well as 138 reports, identified answers to 192 parliamentary questions and 51 parliamentary questions. Given that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed in the previous year when the visa liberalisation negotiations began, the BiH Council of Ministers focused, in addition, on meeting the conditions for further integration of BiH, and our work was, above all, focused on the realisation of priorities in the area of the European Partnership, obligations under the Interim Agreement and implementation of the visa liberalisation commitments from the Map of Ways. For this reason, the Council of Ministers began holding the thematic sessions dedicated to European integration where, among other things, we discussed the level of implementation of commitments from the European Partnership. One of the Council of Ministers' thematic meetings was called for the first time by the present entity prime ministers, thus strengthening institutional co-operation between the entity governments and the Council of Ministers when it comes to fulfilling the European Partnership Championship. The Council of Ministers adopted an Action Plan for the Implementation of Priority from the European Partnership, an Action Plan for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as well as an Action Plan for meeting the visa liberalisation requirements of the Roadmap. The abovementioned Action Plan sets out relevant institutions to be business operators. The 2008 Action Plan for the Implementation of the European Partnership Priorities envisioned the establishment of nine new institutions. Of the nine planned, six were established, namely the Committee on Appeals of Police Officers, the Unit for European Integration, the Coordination Body for the Implementation of the Strategy for the Prevention of Juvenile Crimes, the Standardisation Council, the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and the Data Protection Agency. The remaining three are in the phase of realisation, namely the Committee on Citizens' Appeals, the obligations of the BiH Parliament, the General Education Council, in the final phase of the establishment, and the establishment of a Unit for the Implementation of the New Approach Directive in relevant institutions. 79 The Action Plan for the Implementation of the priorities of the European Partnership also envisioned the adoption of 15 laws. The Council of Ministers established 14, amending and supplementing the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the Administration, amending and supplementing the Law on Police Officers, amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, amending and supplementing the Law on Border Control, in order to bring these four laws in line with two new police reform laws. The Council of Ministers also established the Law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest, the Anti-discrimination Act, the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, the Law on genetically modified organisms, the Civil Aviation Act, the Law establishing providers of air navigation services and the Law on Border Control and the Law on movement and residence of foreigners and asylum. By way of effect of the Interim Agreement, the Implicit Taxation Administration has successfully implemented the first obligations consisting of the suspension of the charge of 1% of customs duties on imports of goods and products from EU Member States, as well as the area of customs duties on products and goods imported from EU Member States, and on the basis of the customs rates and dynamics provided for by the Interim Agreement. During last year, the 1st session of the Interim Committee was successfully held, operating on the implementation of the Interim Agreement, which will be in force until the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Given the need to further strengthen co-ordination in the process of European integration, the Council of Ministers has taken a decision to establish European integration units in all ministries and bodies to the Council of Ministers. During 2008, the Council of Ministers also adopted a Strategy for the implementation of a decentralised implementation system for the management of EC assistance programmes in BiH, appointed me, Minister of Finance, as State Coordinator for Access Assistance Instruments, and established an advisory body in the form of the Co-ordination Committee for IPA Projects. With regard to public administration reform, it is important to note that the Public Administration Reform Fund became operational during 2008. The Management Board of this Fund approved 11 projects worth 8 million marks. Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office on Acts...... Public administration reform strategies. With regard to legal projects that the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, passed through the parliamentary procedure during the reporting period, can certainly single out the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, which was first systematically done in this area for the first time, and a series of sublegal acts that arise from this law. Then the Financial Lising Act, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions, the Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations. The Framework Agreement between BiH and the European Commission on the use of IPA funds has also been adopted. I would stress the BiH Fiscal Council Act, which adopted parliament in the report period on the Council of Ministers' proposal, which was among other things one of the objectives set before BiH by the Peace Implementation Council. The Fiscal Council has held a series of sessions so far, has proved to be an extremely operational, useful body that has enabled effective fiscal coordination. The first real test of the functioning of the Fiscal Council was the 2009 Budgetary Frameworks Agreement for all levels of government, as well as the adoption of the budget of BiH institutions, Republika Srpska, the Federation, the District, within the borders established by the Fiscal Council, which confirms the awareness of all levels of government to lead a coordinated fiscal policy. 80 Law on Agriculture and Food, Rural Development, Law on genetically modified organisms, Framework Law on the Protection and Rescue of Humans and Material Goods from Natural and Other Accidents, Public Procurement Act, Civil Aviation Act, Law establishing a service provider in air navigation. In order to meet the objectives of the Peace Implementation Council, it is important to note that during 2008, the Council of Ministers laid down and in the follow-up procedure the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly and adopted two strategic documents, the Strategy of the Justice and the War Crimes Strategy. The adoption of the three documents meets the goal of strengthening BiH's rule of law. As far as education is concerned, it should be stressed that the Law on secondary vocational education and training in BiH was passed on a proposal from the Council of Ministers of Parliament. A number of decisions have been taken to further implement the Framework Law on Higher Education. First of all, it is important to stress that decisions have been taken to start work and determine the headquarters of the Information and Recognition Centre in the field of higher education, the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, and the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education. These newly established institutions shall be provided with resources for work and appointed management. In 2008, the Ministry of Civil Affairs committed the establishment of a General Education Council, which is a commitment from the European Partnership. The Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices was passed on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. As a reflection of the implementation of this law, a decision has been taken to establish the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and to appoint its Headship. From newly established institutions, it is important to mention the establishment of a State Regulatory Agency for radiation and nuclear energy. The procedure for appointing the head of the agency has not been completed yet, but in order to carry out the duties of the agency in due time has been appointed as acting director. The data protection law, also on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, was passed by the Parliamentary Assembly. The law's in progress, too. The director of this agency has been appointed and the Internal Design and Systematization Regulation has been adopted, creating conditions for its full operation. The establishment of the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH is in line with European legislation, allowing BiH to fully comply with the European legislation at the moment of candidate status. The Council of Ministers also adopted a strategy to combat drug abuse. The Council of Ministers also financially supported the anti-drug campaign, but adopted a number of implementing rules in this area. In June 2008, the Council of Ministers adopted an Integrated Border Management Strategy, with the accompanying Action Plan, and the adoption of this strategy is one of the set conditions for BiH on the path of European integration. In order to implement the Strategy effectively 81, a decision on the appointment of the State Borders Commission and a Decision appointing the Commission for Integrated Border Management has been adopted. A Action Plan for preventing human trafficking in BiH for the period 2008 was also adopted. - In 2012. This plan sets out exactly the operators of the activities for the individual obligations provided for by it as well as the deadlines for their implementation. A number of decisions have been taken in the area of protection of human rights and the rights of national minorities. I will briefly single out a Decision establishing a Coordination Body for the implementation of the Strategy for the Prevention of Jurisdiction (2006). 2010), Decision establishing a Co-ordination Committee on the Monitoring and Implementation of the Action Plan to address Roma problems in the field of employment, stable care and healthcare. The positive attitude of BiH authorities towards resolving the Roma problem has been assessed as one of the major shifts by the European Commission in the Progress Report. And BiH joined dekada Roma in September 2008, one of the important documents adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2008. Of course, there is also a policy to be mentioned in the area of disability in BiH. As far as the energy sector is concerned, I would like to inform you that, together with the entity prime ministers, an agreement on the principles of energy policy was signed on 13 November 2008. The agreement defines the principles of energy policy in the areas of transport and distribution of oil and petroleum products, transport and distribution of gas, production, transmission and distribution of electricity, transport, transmission and distribution of clean energy and biodiesel. Given that the Gas Act was one of the conditions for the European Partnership in the part of the signed gas agreement, coordination of the development of the gas network and of the liquid gas terminal, as well as that the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federation will agree and adopt, Republika Srpska, forgive me, and the Government of the Federation agree and adopt the Gas Act as part of the obligations under the European Partnership. All areas treated with this agreement provide for the introduction of rules and standards in accordance with EU rules. The Council of Ministers confirmed this agreement and tasked the restoring ministries with joining the implementation of this agreement. This would be a brief summary of the Council of Ministers' work last year. Much more information on all activities of the Council of Ministers is contained in the Report that has already been delivered to you. And what I have experience with the previous parliament, in the end I would ask, when we criticise ourselves, that there is a constitutional basis for our work and our powers that we can bring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4385	Thank you very much, Minister Vrankić. We got a good lead for the debate, I'm opening the debate. Mrs. Dušanka Majkić. Our work is being followed by three ministers, so if there are any questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4386	I must say, it is not pleasant to have such a complex topic at the end of the agenda when forces are quite exhausted, and to speak and to listen. But here, this is too serious material, not to talk about it. 82 We know that the work of one country's executive government certainly represents a point of heated debate in the parliaments of many countries. There are different methodologies in which this material should be prepared when it comes to Parliament, but basically that material should look at the work of different ministries, administrative organisations within the framework of ministries, directorates, agencies, so that Parliament can take a position, i.e. a proposal and conclusions on how to improve the work of the executive government, because this is probably the very essence of the debate on such a topic in Parliament. The fact is that we cannot escape to the Parliamentary Assembly with the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for the first time. Here, I think this is the fifth year in Parliament that one first report on the work of the executive authority comes to this house. We must bear in mind that it is also a legal provision, it is Article 34. The Council of Ministers Act, and the business provision, that is Article 156(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House. The law states that at least once a year, the Council of Ministers submits a report to the Parliamentary Assembly, not stating whether it is just a report on the work of the Council of Ministers or administrative organisations, or whether it is a report on the work of all BiH institutions that have, as we know, crossed number 60. It seems logical to me that this would be the last one, so the report on the work of the Council of Ministers includes a report on the work of all BiH institutions. We often ask ourselves what they're doing to us, especially, newly formed agencies, directorates, if they're working at all. I ask myself: Wouldn't it be more complete if once a year the Parliamentary Assembly organised a plenary session to discuss the work of many BiH institutions, which would have previously delivered a report to Parliament by some method defined by the Council of Ministers? Thus, conclusions could be drawn that would relate to each individual institution, about as we are now doing with audit reports when we analyse the implementation according to the audit reports. Eh, and since we've done this year quite awkwardly, probably because neither the Council of Ministers... has a stalking mechanism, and neither Parliament nor its competent authorities, therefore, the Council of Ministers is 5. 2. still adopted, i.e. discussed and adopted individual reports on the work of the ministries for 2008 and concluded that the same unions and to be delivered as reports on the work of the Council of Ministers. So, reports from individual ministries. At one of his meetings, the College of the Peoples considered and submitted this report to the committees responsible for each commission to consider it from its point of view. It's obvious that the commissions were also caught by this report,...the team before they first considered it, so they had every methodology of their work. I, as the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, considered within the competence of the Commission that I am running; in addition to having the Council of Ministers, I did not have the other institutions that were to be found here, which is the Directorate for indirect taxation, the Public Procurement Agency, another one, I can't remember, another one of the institutions that are in the power of the Finance and Budget Commission. So what are the commissions doing here now? ... In contrast, one of them adopted him, the other rejected him, the third asked for a supplement, as was the case at the House of Representatives, mostly a very charming attitude. But basically, an additional confusion actually caused the Council of Ministers when they were 14. 4. of the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers came two materials under the same name, one material was presented as a United Council Report of Ministers for 2008 which states that it is the most important activities of the BiH Ministry and the Directorate for European Integration, and the other material that was adopted at the same session was aimed at, says, 'additions and provisions... contained in the 2008 Work Reports, and we are delivering to you for the Directorate for European Integration, FIPA, 83 Public Procurement Agency and the Border Police and Foreign Affairs Agency.'. So it was on several occasions, we were clapped by reports, and we didn't really know which side and which way to take the methodology of work at all. I must admit that, in addition to this report from that set on the work of the Border Police, which, in one responsible, clear and precise way, provides information on the work of this institution, all other reports from this group, particularly the reports of FIPA and the Public Procurement Agency, cannot possibly get a passing assessment. I ask myself a loud question: What does an institution like FIPA do anyway, why does it spend money? No Niko in the Council, it's probably in the Law Office, because I don't know who prepared all these materials, no one noticed that in the Work Report... there was also material called the Work Programme Proposal. Be careful, it means in the Work Report: Proposal for a Council of Ministers' Work Programme for 2008 by the Plant Health Protection Authority. In an unexplainable way, but that material is attached to other materials! Reports on the work of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Civil Affairs deserve attention and praise, in my opinion. And the most convincingly bad impression on me has left the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. To explain that the largest number of laws that we did not support within the Parliamentary Assembly refers to the Ministry of Security, as a form of its unwillingness to make a wider co-operation with, in particular, entity institutions and bring, contributes in such a way as to bring legislation into line and thus gain a passivity in the House. And as for the Foreign Ministry, which even in one sentence says that the overwork of the minister is the reason he didn't achieve more, and I would, I'm sorry there isn't a minister here, to ask him if he has a deputy. We know very well how an affair between the deputy and the minister is a regular theme of all news editions and how good it would be if he didn't have time to replace him, so he could do that part of the job he's not coming for. Also, this ministry, in my opinion, cannot get a passing grade because it has done nothing to repair the state of the DKP network. We know, even though that's the point we left behind for a better time, that we're talking about it, that it's done very little to strengthen economic diplomacy, that it hasn't practically done anything to fix this country's image in the world. That's my reason for thinking that this ministry in its work can't find at least support on my part. And constantly, again, to pull one parallel, as it succeeds Minister Nović to agree on all the legislative proposals before his draft laws arrive in the legislative procedure and to gain transparency in the Parliamentary Assembly for all his laws. So he's, uh, very much making sure that these laws get everybody's support. Unlike the minister of security who absolutely does not come to mind to agree and to get support even in Parliament, let alone from other structures that participate in the drafting of these laws. Finally, another question arises: Could the Council of Ministers have been more effective, could it have been better? And we always say that it can always be better, making sure that Parliament itself bears a good share of responsibility because the situation within the Council of Ministers is as it is. So we will support this report on the work of the Council of Ministers, but at the same time I suggest that three conclusions be adopted: 84 1. That the House of People is ordering the Council of Ministers to draw up a unique methodology for drawing up reports on the work of all BiH institutions. 2. That reports on the work of all ministries, directorates, agencies and other Councils of Ministers will be delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly no later than 31. 3rd year for the previous year so we can determine ourselves during the month of April. And in the end: 3. That reports on the work of BiH institutions should be discussed at the plenary sessions of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4387	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. We also heard the praises and awe of certain segments, so certain ministries in the Council of Ministers. Who wants another word? If no one wants a word anymore, we won't forcefully ask for a word, so I'm closing the argument. I'm closing the debate, and I suggest the following. So, before us now, we have held a united debate on the incoming reports from the Council of Ministers, but we also have two conclusions from the House of Nations and four conclusions from the committees of both homes. The House of Representatives did not plead because heterogeneous in their approach were the commissions... therefore, and in the content of these conclusions in relation to the reports discussed. In the first case of the first report when there was a speech then it was said that it was a report that only spoke about the work of certain ministries and that it was a collection and, behold, this is the Council of Ministers' report. However, we later received an updated report, you got it, we all got it, we could discuss it and we heard it, including Minister Vrankić, so in the opening statement and that part. And, in order not to be silent and we go over all the conclusions, I suggest that we accept the Council of Ministers' report after this united debate and deliver to them without a statement of conclusions that have been done in this way (there are a number of conclusions that have been made by the committees only taking into account the first report and then it is an incomplete observation). After now to return... to the commissions again, so to supplement their conclusions, I don't think that would be a practical job. But we have a way out of this situation: to accept this report as we have received for the first time, so in the Parliamentary Assembly, such as the application, they already know it in the Council of Ministers, that the second time this report comes fully and timelyly and that it covers all segments, so those who have all the administrative organisations, all segments that have contact with all the ministries within the Council of Ministers, and that we deliver these conclusions to them even though they were so inconsistencies, that they see what essentially about the work of the Council of Ministers, about this report in two parts that have arrived in Parliament, think of the permanent parliamentary bodies and both homes and the House of Peoples. If that is acceptable, we could approach the plea. I ask you then to accept, in that sense, the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for the period we have heard and to deliver to them as part of the decision on the adoption of this report and... all the conclusions of all the committees and the House of Peoples and both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. 85 Who is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4388	Is that the end, is it gone?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4389	In order for it to be no more, I would like to make a statement on the Council of Ministers' work report. Who's "for"? I find that we unanimously accepted, so I apologize, does anyone have a "against"? Of course, the opposition is “against. ” Thank you very much for your opposition. Two votes are "against". We accepted this report. We'll deliver these conclusions to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4390	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4391	So, I said we'd deliver all these reports, because they're inconsistencies. And this is the conclusion after yours.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4392	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4393	Would you like to read it one more time to listen to your colleagues?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4394	So because we didn't have a methodology, we didn't know what methodology it was done, so the commissions didn't even know how to set up these reports, my first conclusion is in that sense: 1. The people's home orders the Council of Ministers to draw up a unique methodology for drawing up reports on the work of all BiH institutions. I think that makes sense. That methodology doesn't exist now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4395	Under 2.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4396	2. A report on the work of all ministries, directors, agencies and other Councils of Ministers will be delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly no later than 31. 3rd year for the previous year. 86 And I think that makes sense. And third: 3. A report on the work of BiH institutions will be discussed by the Parliamentary Assembly at plenary sessions. That we can all look at and not repeat them or us twice the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4397	It's doubtful that it's a plenary session, I'd say at a joint session of both homes, because it has a different interpretation which is a plenary session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4398	All right, together.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4399	Whether it's a solo work of a home or, let's say, it's a joint session of both homes. As far as I'm concerned, I also included in the proposal before joining the vote about this content and I find this acceptable. I'm opening a debate on the proposal of these conclusions you've heard. Can we approach the plea? Please, who is "for" this conclusion? I understand we're unanimous.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4400	I had an objection, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4401	...we have now accepted the unanimous proposal of these conclusions, but I will not deny you, Mr. Zrna. Please, if you have any needs.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4402	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4403	Well, you see, you don't have to talk, be careful.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4404	Well, I had to, because I'm really principled against the third conclusion. We have a home and a nice, quiet, thorough and normal discussion of everything. We turn joint sessions into 87 parades of vanity. Six years from now, I've only seen all those sessions as sessions of vanity parades, but I'm resigning now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4405	Here, I can, I'll take it back, though I think it's good to work together sometime. Here, I take it back if you think that's better.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4406	Thank you very much. I am finishing the debate, the final debate, paragraph 3, we have adopted points 1 and 2 of Mrs Majkić's conclusions. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Thank you very much to the ministers for having patience and monitoring our work. Thank you very much. Point 23 is Ad. 23. Report on the work of the National Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2008, applicant: State Regulatory Commission for Electricity You've been given the opinion of the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy. The House of Representatives has accepted this report. I'm asking Mrs. Čolo to bring us into the story just for a short time with two sentences. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4408	Well, I don't know, Chairman, you got in our report that this report was filed on the basis of Article 4.10. The law on transmission, regulator and operator of the electricity system in BiH. It was delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly in the second month of 2009. A debate was held at the meeting with representatives of the State Regulatory Commission on Electricity. We had no objections to their report, we realized that this independent institution was doing its job well, as an independent regulator, and we supported their report as we propose to Dom.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4409	Thank you very much. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Šaraba, please. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4410	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, in front of us, we have an extremely high-quality report like it was last year. And I think this report from that aspect deserves a special attention, for one basic reason why it's taxed on what this one is, I'd say, a quality state institution was doing last year. My main objection is that this commission does not have full legitimacy, and it does not have its full legitimacy in the work because entity governments did not fulfil the obligations they had, therefore, chosen in full the legitimacy of those members of the Commission who, in the previous year and that year before this previous term, had expired, and I really believe that in this direction, the entity government must fulfil their obligation and name this body at full capacity. Also in the previous report, and also in this report is a special chapter that deserves special attention, which is called Consumer Protection. In fact, the widely accepted practice across Europe is to protect the most vulnerable categories of the population. Since the energy sector in BiH has space and has the opportunity to do so, and since this protection is lagging behind, as it is very specific here, I really believe that the Council of Ministers as one body that will co-ordinate together with the entity ministries must try to reach the most vulnerable categories of the BiH population that will be subject to subsidies, because there is space, there are opportunities and it should be done because it is a widely accepted obligation everywhere in Europe where there is opportunities. And in our energy sector, there really is opportunities. I really propose in this direction that we make one conclusion here that we will assign the Council of Ministers as one body that has a co-ordinated role in this to identify together in coordination and co-operation with the relevant entity ministries the users of the subsidy, the level of the subsidy and the way of implementation and, of course, to do so within a period that can be quite broad, but that the issue of customer protection in BiH is raised, because there is space and there is an opportunity to do so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4411	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? We'll wait for Mrs. Majkić, we don't have the quorum again. We're going back to work. We will access the statement, the statement on the 2008 report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity. There were no reports of a hearing. Branko, is that necessary, you want a discussion or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4412	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4413	We'll approach the plea. Who is this report we have just discussed? We unanimously accepted the report under point 23. 89 Point 24 is the Work Report
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4414	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4415	Please, wait a minute, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4416	I was going to formulate a conclusion with this, so I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4417	You haven't announced.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4418	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4419	You had an intention? I can't know that you meant it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4420	Well, I said I'm suggesting a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4421	What conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4422	What conclusion, on what?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4423	Conclusion on the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4424	We had a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4425	The fact that I didn't give it in writing, but okay, let it stay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4426	Make it your fault, because we had an argument. You were supposed to say through the debate that you had a conclusion. I've concluded the debate, we've voted on the report and... you've come to that conclusion, if that's okay with you. We'll keep an eye out in the future. So we move to point 24. 90 Ad. 24. Work and Business Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2007 Radio Television You have received the opinion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The House of Representatives has adopted the conclusions of the competent committee, I don't see here whether he has accepted this report, I believe. Yes, together they will decide on the 2007 and 2008 report when it arrives. I, given the very extensive report of our competent committee, please Mrs. Čolo, will not let us fall asleep when we speak, when I work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4428	I think the more extensive this report is from another committee. It's the Finance and Budget Commission. It's the next item of the agenda, it's the report on the financial operations of RTV, and we on the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy we had on the agenda the report on the work and business of RTVBiH, and that's this report that was delivered to the House of Peoples 31. 12. 2008 for 2007. So the report submitted by the board of directors has already been in parliamentary procedure at the House of Representatives. The home of the people got it, given the circumstances, only 31. 12. In 2008, we too discussed this report in February and concluded that the situation in TV is very difficult. The debate, believe me, when it comes to the report on the state of RTVBiH, the debate that lasts for several hours, Mr Miodrag Deretić, as chairman of the Management Board today, is there whether or not I did something wrong, Nikola Deretić, forgive me, meddling (because I was in Parliament when Mr Deretić was an MP, but the other Deretić, so I intervened), Mr Nikola Deretić, the debate lasted several hours. We realized that the situation on TV was very difficult, we suggested certain conclusions. Will these conclusions, if the House adopts them, be of any use, but of course we expect the 2008 report, because the month of May is already near, so we suggested two conclusions: 1. To require the Management Board to respect consistently in its work the provisions of the Law on the Public TV System and the Law on Public TV Service as basic legal documents whose adoption of the Parliamentary Assembly created a framework for legal action within the Public TV System and the Public TV Service. 2. To ask the Council of Ministers to establish a Working Group in which experts from the field of public broadcasting would be, with the task of assessing the compliance of the Law on the Public TV System and the Law on Public TV Service with the Constitution of BiH and European standards in this area, and therefore to draw up a proposal for any amendments and additions to these laws. That's when it comes to legislation in this area. As for the financial situation, which is very difficult, I think Mrs Dušanka Majkić will speak more in detail about it in her report as part of the next agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4429	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Mr. Šaraba and Rajić. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4430	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I don't think we should discuss these points of the agenda today for one basic reason. So, I've learned from the media the last few days that what's in these reports that we've received is not true. So there are other facts and there are some other data, and there are other data and facts that have come to light in the past two months of professional television services that have been correcting financial reports, together with the audit house that was hired to do this job, established some other facts and found that debt is not as much written as it is, even, by 6 million of those shown in the Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4431	My colleagues, we're talking about the report on the work, not the audit report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4432	Mr. Chairman, here, so I'm talking about both one report and another because I consider them...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4433	But we're talking and you can't count, so the points are different. Don't be angry, those are different points. He'll be here, next item's business. Does he want, yes, Mr. Rajić? Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4434	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm joining this thinking but no, perhaps for the same reasons Mr. Šaraba said. There should be no discussion today about such a difficult, complex and serial story about RTTVBiH at the end of the working day when objectively we have no more capacity, neither intellectually nor physically that we can deal with this issue. In that sense, I suggest that we consider putting this point in one of the first two or three points, right after the parliamentary issues, at the next session, and be ready for both us and all those representing RTVBiH in terms of one and the other report. And regardless of how this proposal will go, of course, and fellow Šarabe, I have to ask two or three principles. The first question of the Presidents of the Committee, i.e. the Committee that delivered us Opinion on the report on the work and business of RTVBiH for 2007 without the attitude of whether this House should be adopted, accepted or rejected. So there's no clear view of what needs to be done with this report. And two conclusions are proposed which I will say – I would not want anyone to take this wrongly, to be offended – this presents me, reminds me of the self-management formulations of some conclusions. We call, this proposal concludes number one, but imagine: just calling one part of the structure of RTVBiH, calling only the Governing Board to adhere to the law as if not keeping the law bound by all those who do any work in this country! But it is interesting that the proposal only requires 92 of the Management Board that it respects the law, while management is not obliged to do so? And we all know that one of the major accidents and the troubles that occur in this Croatian TV facility has arisen from the management relationship to the Management Board whose decisions, rights and competences are not recognised. At least he doesn't admit it. And another conclusion: now we need to form a commission on the commission. We already have one formed at the conclusion of this House on the application of Article 7. The Law establishing several channels, etc., is now proposed that some phantom experts from this area, and where those experts are, I don't know where we're going to find them, should determine whether this is in accordance with the Constitution, so whether the Law on the RTV System is constitutional, whether it is in accordance with European Conventions on Rights, Human Rights and Freedoms. So really two completely counterproductive, completely unnecessary conclusions. I really don't think there's anything to do with this. And what seems most important to me is that the TVBiH problem is most obvious in the financial report that Mr. Šaraba somehow touched. However, the RTTVBiH problem just appears in the financial report. Problems in relations, in competences, in clans, in political control of this area, and thus we should deal with and establish relations to know who, who, in which structure of the government, or other public institutions, is responding. We have this... we have a closed circle, maybe it's not closed yet, in which the Management Board makes decisions, management denies them, board of directors shifts, Constitutional Court returns etc. And we would take this in five minutes today, at the end of the day, get over it. So, with all these remarks, I really invite you, Mr. Chairman, to postpone this point and that when we are fresh, prepared, respecting this knowledge, the information Mr. Šaraba has prepared, in fact, has not been prepared, that we have them as a debater, because I also know from many sources that what we are offered here is business, relations and financial business at least 50% incorrect. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4435	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. I've made a consultation with Mrs. Majkić. We accept that suggestion. We're at eight o'clock, seven o'clock, eleven and seven is eighteen, seven o'clock, it's seven hours of our work. So there is indeed a decrease in concentration on certain important issues, and it is two very, very important points. So, it's about our significant public broadcaster, and here we propose as a College to accept this suggestion from a respected member of Rajić. It is acceptable for us to put this immediately after the adoption of the minutes and parliamentary questions to accept it at the next session to be the first points of the agenda. So to switch for the next session and then at the beginning, rested, we have time to prepare further, we consider point 24. 2007 RTTV Work and Business Report We think, too, that the two of us should discuss it and end it in 2007. When it comes in 2008, we'll discuss it in 2008. I wouldn't resort to that approach that the House of Representatives had. And let's put point 25 there too. Report on the financial operations of RTVBiH in 2007, not waiting for 2008 because it will come to who knows when and when to finish this story, that... certain measures and to carry out a quality debate. 93 Please, we must make a statement: to remove this from the agenda and to begin the agenda of the next session. Who is "for" this proposal? I agree that we unanimously agreed to postpone the debate on these two points at the next session. We thank Mr. Deretić and the BHT gentlemen, I believe you will respect our reasons. It's aimed at better discussion and better conclusions about your house. We're going to point 26, that's ad. 26. Decision of Mr Ivo Bradvica, Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH, due to the submission of an irrevocable resignation We won't discuss irrevocable resignations, but I'm still asking if anyone wants a word. I'm closing the argument. No one wants to. We need to approach, so we need to make a statement about whether we accept that resignation. I'm asking you to make a statement about it. Who's "for"? ‘Non’? One “abstained. ” All “for ” and one“ abstention. ” In point 27, be good, you from the Secretariat invite Mr. Zrn, he's out on a chic break, let him in. Ad. 27. The appointment of three envoys to the Ad hoc commission to conduct the procedure for the appointment of the Ombudsman from the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4438	No, no, it's drago. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-27-0.u4439	Ah, Drago Ljubičić, yes, yes, instead of Dušanka Drago Ljubičić, Alma Čolo would be on behalf of the Bosniak people and Branko Zrno was on behalf of the Croatian people. Can we accept a proposal like this? Who is “for ” such a proposal? Please make a statement. Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained" is only one. Thank you very much. We appointed this committee for the Ombudsman. Ad. 28. The appointment of three representatives of the House of Peoples to the Ad hoc Commission for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment: a) The Independent Committee and (b) the Committee on Appeals of Citizens, as independent bodies So the suggestion is to be the same composition. So, the composition was, just a little bit. What was the composition, help me? From the Bosniak people's ranks he was Rančić, right, Branko Zrno was from Croatia, from the order of the Serb was Mladen, now he will be Dušanka. Here, I ask you to make a nice statement about the committee's appointment: the Independent Committee and the Board of Appeals. So again, it's Rančić, Zrno, Majkić. I'm putting on a plea. Who's "for"? Is there someone “against ”? The "against" is one. We've established. _________(?) ‘Contained’.
