ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30448	I am opening my 64th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, aside from the MPs at the session, our regular guests were invited: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations monitoring the work of our home, as well as representatives of certain NGOs. We also called on the auditor-general to discuss the BiH institutions' audit report on the 2008 audit of BiH institutions. I welcome all present MPs and guests, as well as media representatives. According to service information, there are currently 36 MPs present. The absence was justified by MPs: Sead Jamakosmanović, Sefer Halilović, Jozo Križanović and Zlatko Lagumdžija. I find the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. Let me brief you on the changes to the earlier proposed agenda of this session. Point 17 is removed from the agenda. A report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH. We've received a notice from the secretary of this committee that she has not met because of the earlier commitments of her members. The following points are added to the agenda: point 3. Confirming the decision of the BiH Council of Ministers' Chairman on the appointment of Sadik Ahmetović as BiH Security Minister and deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Point 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of BiH, following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Point 5. Commission's request for external trade and customs duties to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the indirect taxation system in BiH, following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. 2 Point 17. Proposal for a Resolution on the historical value and importance of the first session of ZAVNOBiH (November 25th 1943) for the statehood of BiH – Proposer: MEP Denis Bećirović. Point 26. The appointment of three MPs from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to agree on the identical text of the Foreign Trade Traffic Control Act and services of strategic importance for BiH security. We have also added the following points: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in BiH, with a Report from the Commission on Transport and Communications; - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public TV Service of BiH, with the Opinion of the Commission on Transport and Communications; - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport and Communication; - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Excises in BiH, with the opinion of the Commission on Finance and Budget. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30449	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I have one remark at point 21. ...to the College. Here says: Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2008 with Opinion of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. With the Office's opinion, and there's no commission anywhere, because the Commission's doing this just fine, we've been doing everything for two months, public hearings, we're making conclusions, it turns out we're nowhere. The point should be: the Commission's Finance and Budget Report on the 2008 revision of BiH institutions. That's a logical point. This is how it turns out that this is basically done by all the Office of Audit, and the Opinion, and you know what the Office of Audit does: forward to parliamentary procedure, come to us, and we continue to do so. I don't think this point makes any sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30450	Thank you. Let me give you a brief transmission of what your... chairman of the club also asked for and our answer was that it was common, and last year this was the point of the agenda, and for no report, nor law, when the opinion of the commission is positive, we put the opinion of the commission but only for the negative. Therefore, this is a common practice, so far we have defined the agenda points 3 and we have never particularly put a commission's opinion if it's not negative. I wouldn't go favoring just one commission and putting a commission's opinion on it. However, if the House decides differently or we decide differently on the Expansive College, we will do so. Next up for discussion, Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, international organisations, means of information, dear guests, be careful, the agenda is really something that we spend tens of minutes on each session, so we knew for an hour. Here, on two occasions now, we had a delayed session of this house and we were able to agree on both agendas and before the very beginning of this Parliament. It's unacceptable to say that point 3, here I'm going to say that we don't need any new knowledge because it's been talked about these days, and I can kind of figure out that it's going to be on the agenda for today's session, but it's inadmissible to point 4 and 5 and some other points that have nothing to do with urgency, or whose materials we didn't get, maybe someone sent it to the post office, etc., but I didn't get it, and I'd like to see who got the law under point 5, who got the law under point 4. We propose amendments and amendments to the law by a reduced procedure, a very serious matter, without having time to prepare for it. And we have a session of the House in seven days, that is, eight days from now, next Wednesday. I suggest that all that is not necessary today on the agenda because of the lack of material, i.e. the amendment and addition of the law in writing, because of the lack of time for certain consultations and so that we may not be wrong, maybe we will support something in the short procedure or see if it is necessary etc. or vice versa, means points that don't matter today don't put on the agenda and that's how we end this agenda in as short a period as possible. If we're doing this in the future, I don't think there's any point in putting something on the agenda that we haven't been able to get to know each other very well, and here, theoretically and practically, we haven't been able to get to know each other, and it's about amendments and additions to the law. Here's something, I said, I can also tolerate as point 3 and we can talk about it without any further consultation, reading, etc., but this really doesn't make sense, and that's my request to get these points off the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30452	I'm sorry. We accept a suggestion about moving the session schedules, and for each individual, we can give a certain explanation. On the other hand, I believe that you know the views and members of the Rules of Procedure in which mandatory items of the agenda are required, and the request for consideration under the shortened procedure, which is 126, these laws that you mentioned, which we have received from the Council of Ministers, are mandatory points of the agenda and cannot be put to the vote to remove those items of the 4 agenda. Therefore, your request cannot be put to the vote, and it suggests that all other materials will be sent in time to the MPs. In this case, a request from the Council of Ministers came 24 hours before the appointment of this session, holding this session, so that these requirements as mandatory items of the agenda (and I remind you, we are only discussing the request for a shortened procedure today, and we are not discussing the laws) we must leave as mandatory points of the agenda in today's agenda. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30453	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I said, but you disobeyed me. At one of the previous sessions last year when we spoke about the reports of the Audit Office, I had an observation as Parliament relates to these reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30454	Wait a minute, quiet.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30455	So, the thing repeats itself, it repeats itself this year as it did last year. One item of the agenda, which has 28 plus 31 reports, 28 with a positive opinion of the Office for Audit and 31 with a qualification, is proposed, so we are discussing under one point this financial audit report for 59 BiH institutions. We can do it anyway, it's probably gonna work out that way, but I just don't think that's what we wanted to achieve when it comes to state review and when it comes to state audit reports. I think Parliament should pay much more attention to this. We don't have many mechanisms to control the work of state institutions. Today it is the Office for Auditing in financial business and in the case of an impact review that has not yet been revived.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30456	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30457	So, I suggest - I respect what our commission has been hearing for days and days and treated it all together, but I think it is unacceptable for 59 institutions to consider under one item of the agenda and at one session - to you as a College, I suggest that you consider the possibility that if we at least separate these two for today and leave these with a qualification for the next session, and that we consider only those for which there is no objection to the revision. And I am particularly interested in when we will start to deal with impact review in BiH, because every day, reading materials coming from the Council of Ministers and from BiH institutions to this parliament, I am showing growing dissatisfaction or growing dissatisfaction with what we are getting here and this is a special problem that we will have to deal with. I'm not satisfied with the work of the state administration. There are no control mechanisms, there aren't, I don't see that through State Service 5 anything is doing, so at least let's see through impact review what time it is and where we actually are, and some of these things I'm going to talk about today when we talk about concrete points of the agenda. To sum up, my suggestion is that you as a College consider the possibility to separate, if anything to begin with, this half-review, to be in two sessions. Today to be this first part with 28 institutions, and this second part with 31 institutions at the next session, let us at least pay a little more attention to each institution individually. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30458	Thank you. I want to remind both you and Dom that the College, of course, is an extended college that determines the agenda and has tried a series of different modes. In the last year, we had 10 audits divided and you know that every time we discussed the revision when we opened those points, we tried to turn into one item on the agenda of all audits. So we were trying to find the best way to discuss it in this House. This is your latest proposal that we could consider at the Extended College, but we can put it here for a vote, to divide this into two parts: we have in the first part 28 points, and in the second part would be 31 points of the agenda. It could be one of the models, but I'm saying that we were trying to find the best model and we said that maybe the best model for this commission to work around it every day and that this parliament had materials that they had chewed or studied well to take this home for consideration. Dear Ambassador Sado Bahtić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30459	Well, it is a replica, and it's not a replica. ... I cannot accept such a proposal in front of the Commission. I don't think it's okay, because these 28 positive ones, we got nothing. We commended it on this committee, we should only commend today. I'm up for it, this proposal is okay. If we are to give him any meaning, let's just let one session just review reports, one day, that was last year of such similar discussions: to determine one day when the College can until the new year only consider these 31 opinions with the reserve. It's going to be a real effect, because this way with two sessions we don't get anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30460	I remind you that we had a joint session with the People's House about it, so we decided not to do it anymore. So we tried more models. I hope we find the right one. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić, replica. Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30461	Well, here, just more opinions than... In fact, I agree with Mr. Džaferović's assessment that today is an excessive agenda for all of these reports, but to separate them into two parts then it's a bad approach, in my opinion. Why? Because there's always that introductory part that's common otherwise for the revision problem, and then at one session we'll talk about one group of reports, so positive, on the other, about the one with the qualification. I think it is also better to discuss at one session all reports and overall this issue, particularly, given the fact that the Commission's report on finance and budget is very comprehensive, I will say, and a very high-quality form of which the Council of Ministers has many obligations, especially the Ministry of Finance and some other ministries, and it is necessary to discuss this really quality, and I suggest that we discuss this in one whole as a single item of the agenda; whether at today's session with this kind of agenda, this is a question. I don't think that's good, that at another session when there are fewer points of the agenda, because I think that just flying over this without one quality debate is not good, because the Finance and Budget Commission really put a lot of effort and time into it, I'm going to say, have done good jobs related to this revision, and surely both recommendations and opinions are very good and should be discussed in detail and quality, reach conclusions. I expect that this home will respect, that is, the great majority, if not all of our conclusions, which will be our contribution, and especially later the realization of these conclusions in improving the management of public funds, which is actually our main purpose and task through the work of this commission, or these audit reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30462	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30463	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs,... not a replica, but I would just like to say that it would be a good decision for the Kolegijum, if possible, to consider reports at a special session, to be given at one of the sessions in December, perhaps it would be best to have a regular session on Wednesdays, and Thursdays, or Tuesdays to choose for this session; it may be more logical Thursday if some of these sessions were unfinished. It's unlikely that 30 of us can hold a session. So it would be logical if we were to consider the reports in particular. And, above all, to draw public attention to the importance of this issue through possible direct transmission and conclusions that we would adopt in order to go – it would not be only good if this problem were transferred over the next year – so that we would end in December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30464	I thank the Commission members for the discussions, but the Commission members had to make a written request to this Parliament, or to the Kolegijum to discuss this at a special session, and not at today's session, when this is the point of the agenda, to suggest that 7 be removed from the agenda and to organise a special session on this agenda point. We are aware of all the importance of the revision, but I think the Commission could have found a way not to put us in a position to discuss today whether we're going to take this off the agenda when the MPs all brought the materials and discuss these points, and I don't mind doing so. However, the initiative had to come a little early. We have two replicas. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30465	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected guests, I think we're having a debate, and we could've already started with the agenda. I'm proposing an initiative here, so it's not the agenda to be abolished, but to keep this review point for Monday, because we're not going to end this thing today, so it's just to be permutated at that time that on Monday, when we discuss it, it's going to be its place and take its place, let's as a special session that it's going to be, just means that it's seven days apart. That could satisfy all these demands, and I think that might be good. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30466	I don't want to answer to everyone, just a little bit, but I want to remind you of the respect of the Rules of Procedure. We can't postpone the agenda without finishing the rest of the agenda, nor can we vote on all the remaining points of the agenda until we finish the whole agenda. Therefore, there is a possibility that if this is a unique position and this Parliament decides to remove the agenda point and that the College is tasked with holding a session on only one item of the agenda. Please, don't make an exhibition that's not in line with the Rules of Procedure right now. Dear Ambassador Sado Bahtić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30467	So my proposal is precisely that the College is considering, means number 1 below (a) being one special session and calling all these institutions that have opinions with the reserve, (31) to make it the strongest effect. If he can't, since the members of this committee, the leadership, next week he won't be here to transfer today, if we're going to do this point up to the very top, and what remains to be done next week.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30468	I thank you. Is that your proposal or this committee?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30469	The Commission. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30470	If the Commission proposal, please, you have 5 minutes of time (until the others who have called for the agenda are discussing) to formulate that point and put that proposal to the vote. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30471	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so here I am going to state the SNSD's position on this new agenda situation, and here's this debate now open about the revision, I'm going to say my position. I don't think that things should be complicated if we remember what kind of debates were in this House when there were audit reports and I think there's more a declarative commitment to things here than something can essentially be done that couldn't be done so far, which can't be done in a normal debate on this agenda point. I think that the Commission has done its job well and that I don't think it is something special – and by the way, I would remind you that there are things that we don't want to put on this Parliament at all, that we are directly controlling, where there is no revision and we are running away from putting these things – and here we have the work of review, we have the work of the Commission, I am not against it either, but that even some endless debate doesn't think that this will give any particular importance to this issue, which is really important, and I think it is given the right attention that needs to be given. But that's not why I answered, and I wanted to make this fact about these certain points of the agenda as they were. I don't think that's good, they're overvoted at the Extended College and I have to express on behalf of the SNSD Club protest because we've come to this situation to vote on the extended college. I don't think that's a good thing, and often those who pull out the story of entity voting forget that we're getting more and more institutions in BiH into voting, that the vote doesn't lead to good, we know what the water is, and that we should try to try and analyze things like we're making analyses for some... The commissions have become unsustainable about voting and in some other bodies, we have now come into a situation that I think we should look for space for consensus, especially when these things are. You see, and today the MPs were mostly right: unprepared agenda points and yet as such are being put to a vote a minute before the session, and then you have a situation like this that people are justifiably protesting that they cannot be prepared as they should be. We tried to set things up in principle and to leave enough time for such important things. Here, I'm just getting information that the Committee for Confirming the Council of Ministers' Proposals isn't put together in the right way, and I'm going to try to take a break to check it out, but it's not right that I'm getting it right now, but we should all have these materials and have enough time to clear up some of the dilemmas we have, and not now to collect it in the sitting itself. We can't accept that on such an important matter this committee met this morning, that it was in a few minutes, and we remember some of the commission being held completely justified all day because that's an important question. I don't think that's the way we should be brought in, especially if we're dealing with these things by revote. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30472	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30473	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I ask that you place a new item on the agenda of this 64th session of the House of Representatives under the heading: 'Conferring the conclusion on the submission of information by the Council of Ministers on the state and activities undertaken in BiH on preventive protection and the fight against influenza A virus, or H1N1.' The proposed conclusion would read: "It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to provide information for the next session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives on the state and activities undertaken in BiH on preventive protection and the fight against influenza A virus, namely H1N1, with all the necessary contents and data, and to inform the House and provide full support for planned activities to prevent the spread and treatment of those suffering from this virus." A very short explanation: This virus has certainly become a global health problem today that takes wider and more serious proportions from day to day, and the worst is taking ever greater victims. At the 59th session of the House of Representatives, I asked the Registrar of Civil Affairs a question about the state and activities being taken to prevent and combat this virus, and on the existence of a single strategy to fight it at BiH level, and I received an answer that was positively surprised by the content, seriousness and professionalism of the approach, as well as by this problem. Meanwhile, this virus has taken alarming proportions in an environment where there is a rise in the number of deaths caused by this virus's disease. The first death case was also recorded in BiH, and the number of patients was growing in BiH day by day. Often today, we are also witnessing contradictory information about the proportions and activities in the fight against this dangerous virus in general, and also in BiH, which, with the possible wider consequences of the spread of this disease to the citizens of BiH, I consider sufficient and serious reason for this information to be urgently on the agenda for the first next Dom session. Thank you very much. I shall apply this request in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30474	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30475	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, was a problem with the Commission, and I think it should be answered very clearly. As regards the Commission to make recommendations on the appointment of 10 Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers Act is relevant, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives is relevant and the Rules of Procedure of the Commission is relevant. Under the Council of Ministers Act, which we have adopted, from the moment of obtaining the appointment decision, the Commission is required to implement the recommendation within eight days. From the moment of the Commission's recommendation, the House of Representatives shall make a decision within three days. There are no other provisions relevant to that. Within eight days, the Commission has scheduled a session, first one, and due to the request of a significant number of colleagues, because they could not, on Friday, move for today, have held within eight days and delivered the Opinion to the House of Representatives in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Parliamentary Assembly within three days, it may decide to appoint within an hour, two, five, two, but within three days. It's according to the Rules of Procedure and the Council of Ministers Act. That's one thing, so there's no other relevant provision to treat it. The Rules of Procedure of the Commission shall establish a quorum and decision-making method. Members of the Commission are representatives of each political entity from the House of Representatives, a total of 12 representatives. The quorum is most of those 12, so seven. At 8:30, when the session was scheduled, seven members of this committee were present. So it was a quorum for work. And this commission, after ten minutes of waiting, began working with a full quorum; I note that this committee, according to the Rules of Procedure, adopted unanimously by all the members of the Commission, decides most of the members present, on condition that the quorum is secured. So we started working at 8.40 with seven members, along with the quorum, invited the candidate, held talks. Meanwhile, two other members of the Commission joined and asked the candidate questions. And after the debate, the vote was held. The vote was of nine present: six for appointment, three abstentions. This opinion was delivered to the College before the start of the session of the College and, therefore, fully in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, without any breach of the Rules of Procedure and without a derogation from the procedure, the process has been completed. I note that in similar situations, in June of this year, the same for the appointment of Mr. Vidović we held a session at 9:00 p.m., we gave a recommendation, the House of Representatives was at 10.00 p.m. and we carried out the confirmation and appointment. Therefore, both the practice and the Rules of Procedure confirm that there are no misunderstandings about this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30476	Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30477	Well, I've been listening to this argument from Mr. Genjac, and apparently you don't have anything special to object to. But everything he said is about the entity vote, and Mr. Genjac, wherever he arrived, is a problem. And it's according to the Rules of Procedure, and it's by law, and it's in accordance with all the rules, according to the Constitution, and you've been having trouble with it all the time. When we used it past the Rules of Procedure, past the Constitution, beyond all else, that's what it's all about. When I translate what you said, who came, there's enough of us to vote and the story ends, look at the Rules of Procedure, that's consistent and that's true. I didn't deal with it when the agenda came up, I'll do 11 of them. I was dealing with what the MPs were talking about, is it okay if they get it on the table, if we break some other rules, that they get it at that moment when they get into the O.R. Why do other materials get in time? Then what, is someone early? Is someone else's material then, just like everybody's waiting for us in ten and a minute here and then everybody's gonna be calling on, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, I still don't think it's right, that it's wrong and that it doesn't allow normal work, especially when these are important issues. They can be or don't have to be problematic, but we're talking about form. And it wasn't right before what we did. And today we tried to break that practice. To enable people to obtain materials in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this provision is as important as the quorum. I can't turn each other off. But here, in this situation, it was acting the way it was, and, behold, we accepted it that way. We'll talk about the content itself and the rest when it comes to the agenda. But this is what I was talking about, and if you think we're introducing this as a practice, then we're sending a message to everyone else that it can wait for the last day, from 8:00 a.m. to 10.00 a.m. to whoever does what, that these papers are being exchanged and that people can somehow manage here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30478	Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30479	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's what I was talking about at the Expansive College, and I'm not going to talk about it right now. Namely, I belong to those who consider the debate on the points to be placed on the agenda after the established agenda at least or least incomplete. But here, I'm saying, I'm not going to talk about it, and I'm not because this is how you put the dots on the agenda, and I'm not talking about this particular point of appointment, I'm talking about all the points of the agenda... or some of them that are sitting today. To allow as much debate as possible, and given Mr. Okolić's discussion, I ask that materials be delivered for points 4, 5 and newly named this 17th item of the agenda. So it's about laws that require discussion under a shortened procedure, which, as far as I can see and how far I've been able to hear, most MPs have not received in the material and that they are only 18. The 11th were adopted at the Council of Ministers, or on this committee. And of course, this resolution that's also put in place later,...we get these materials, we'll get there because we have a point on the agenda of "Sends and Answers," which usually takes about 40 minutes, and I think there's time for the service to prepare those materials for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30480	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30481	Dear President, Dr. Milorad Živković. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30482	Thank you. Although it is not a debate on agenda points, the debate on the agenda is. Starting with the appointment of meetings and the way they have been postponed, for objective but also other reasons, I would like to remind all MPs all together that, apart from the rights, they have obligations, and that there is no more important activity in the work of this Parliament than the session of Parliament itself. All other activities must be subject to this most important activity. And we tried in the College to work that way, not to allow going abroad, to ban the commissions from delivering reports 24 hours before the session, etc., etc. And obviously, we're not ready to respect that practice, we're ready to keep breaking it every day. It was bad what we did and what our commission was doing for... previous appointments of ministers, and we agreed both in the College and the Expansive College that it was a bad practice and that we didn't do it, that we would continue to do it. On Friday, there was no quorum for the work of this commission and a question arises where is the responsibility and obligation of each of us MPs. The question and appointments of the committee's meetings, in which the meetings are scheduled only for members of the committee and it is forgotten that the committee's session is not only open for members of the commission, but for all members of Parliament who can attend and participate in the debate on the points on the agenda of the commission. The Commission shall be drawn up every day by telephone, and no other parliamentarians shall be informed that the commission is scheduled for that day, thereby denying the right of the MP to be present at the meeting of the commission and discussing the agenda. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues, we must also take care of our responsibility for everyone, not just the responsibility of the Kolegijum that is most responsible for... the active work of this House. Since I have not received proposals for amendments and additions to the agenda in writing, I am giving a 15-minute break to deliver it and warn our service that MPs must receive materials from the Council of Ministers who are on the agenda, otherwise there will be no such points. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I beg your patience to continue our work. Is there any need to talk about the agenda yet? I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a plea. With me, I have a proposal from honourable MP Rifat Dolić to include a new point under the heading: 'Making a conclusion on the submission of the Council of Ministers' information on the state and activities undertaken in BiH to prevent and combat influenza A virus'. This point could be, if adopted, the 27th point of the agenda. I ask the House to prepare for the vote. Is everything okay with electronics? Yes, it is. You can vote now! 13 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30486	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30487	At 4 a.m., that the agenda point that was 21 suggested to be placed as point 4. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 16 votes, "against" 10, "abstained" one. An insufficient entity majority of the Federation. ... Shall we, Berize, go to the second round? We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 20 votes, "against" six, "abstained" two,... two-thirds from the Federation. I'm guessing we transferred this point to... Allow me to read the agenda
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30488	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30489	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30490	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30491	No microphone 14 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30492	Yeah, yeah. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 63rd session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Confirmation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Chairmanial Council Decision on the appointment of Sadik Ahmetović as Minister of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Deputy Chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers; 4. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the 2008 audit of BiH institutions, with Opinion of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions • Institutions with a positive opinion 1. Constitutional Court of BiH, 2. Court of BiH, 3. Agency for Postal Transport BiH, 4. BiH Archives, 5. BiH State Service Agency, 6. Prosecutor's Office of BiH, 7. BiH Agency for Labour and Employment 8. Centre for Mine Action BiH, 9. BiH Standardisation Institute, 10. BiH Insurance Agency, 11. BiH's Attorney General, 12. BiH Market Control Agency, 13. Directorate for the European Integration of BiH, 14. The Central Election Commission of BiH, 15 / 15 State Regulatory Commission for Electricity BiH, 16. BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, 17. BiH Statistics Agency, 18. BiH Border Police, 19th BiH institution's Joint Affairs Service, 20. Public procurement agency BiH, 21. The Ministry of Justice of BiH, 22 / 22 BiH Return Fund, 23. Committee of the State Service for Appeals of BiH, 24. BiH Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office, 25. Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (with a distraction), 26. Institution of the Ombudsman for the Protection of Consumers of BiH (with a distraction), 27. The BiH Missing Persons Institute (with a distraction), 28. The Committee for Property Requirements for Displaced Persons and Refugees of BiH (with a distraction). 15 • Institutions with a qualification of 1. Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH, 2. Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, 3. Food Safety Agency in BiH, 4. Office for the Legislatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, 5. BiH Plant Health Protection Administration, 6. Institute for Intellectual Property of BiH 7. Commission for concessions of BiH, 8. BiH Defence Ministry, 9. Institute for Accreditation of BiH, 10. Institute for Metrology of BiH, 11. Ministry of Security BiH, 12. The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, 13. High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, 14. Co-operational Council of BiH, 15 / 15 The Srebrenica Memorial Centre – Potocari, memorial and mesar for the 1995 genocide victims, 16. State Agency for Investigation and Protection of BiH, 17. BiH Veterinary Office, 18. BiH's Ministry of Civil Affairs, 19th BiH Presidency, 20. Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments of BiH, 21. Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, 22. Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH, 23. Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH 24. Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments in BiH, 25. General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH, 26. Directorate for Economic Planning of BiH, 27. Institution of the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH, 28. BiH Foreign Affairs Service, 29. BiH Foreign Ministry, 30. BiH Civil Aviation Directorate, 31. Office to consider BiH's appeal; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of BiH, following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure; 6. Commission's request for external trade and customs duties to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the indirect taxation system in BiH, following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure; 7. Proposal for a law on tobacco BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-8909, of 30. Nine. 2009 (Second Reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-6-6-909 of 21. 8. 2009 (second reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-8009, of 14. Nine. 2009 (second reading); 16 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH – Proposed by MP Bajazit Jašarević, Law No 01-02-4-8309, of 8. Ten. 2009 (second reading); 11. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on the Roads to BiH – Proposer Momčilo Novaković, Law No 01,02-02-3-9409, of 13. Ten. In 2009, with the Commission Report on Transport and Communications (second reading); 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-10309, of 6. 11. 2009 (first reading), 13. Proposal for a law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the working days – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-9-10209, of 5. 11. 2009 (first reading); 14. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public TV System of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, with opinion of the Commission on Transport and Communications, Law No 01,02-02-3-9709, of 16. Ten. 2009 (First Reading); 15 / 15 Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public TV Service of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, with opinion of the Commission for Transport and Communications, Law No 01,02-02-3-9809, of 16. Ten. 2009 (first reading); 16. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Communication Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, with opinion of the Commission on Transport and Communications, Law No 01,02-02-3-9909, of 16. Ten. 2009 (first reading); 17. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposed by MP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, with the Commission's opinion on Finance and Budget, Law No 01-02-4-6809, of 11. Nine. 2009 (first reading), 18. Proposal for a Resolution on the historical value and importance of the First session of ZAVNOBiH (November 25th 1943) for the statehood of BiH – MEP Denis Bećirović; 19th Commission Report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Missing Persons Act (first reading); 20. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Free Zones Act in BiH; 21. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the BiH Law of Law; 22. A statement on the initiative of the BiH SDP MPs' Club, which reads 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly', asks the Joint Commission for Administrative Affairs to comply with Article 58. The Rules of Procedure shall review the eligibility and sustainability of existing salary and compensation levels, the material costs of all employees in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and in particular MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH'; 23. A statement on Parliamentarian Branko Dokić's initiative "to present a written and oral report on relations with neighbouring countries to the BiH House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH"; 24. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the entry into the agenda of the House of Commons "A consideration of the conclusions on the reduction of salaries and other material rights of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH" (proposed by MP Denis Bećirović from the 63rd session of the House); 25. Changes in the membership of the House of Representatives and Joint Committees (a) Vesna Šain is appointed to the Committee for Gender Equality and the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development, instead of Jovan Todorović, whose term of office ended 17 because of death, (b) Ljiljana Milašin is appointed to the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs and the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development, instead of Hadži Jovan Mitrović, whose mandate ended with the decision of the Central Election Commission; 26. The appointment of three MPs from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes for the adoption of the identical text of the Foreign Trade Traffic Control Act and services of strategic importance for the security of BiH; 27. The conclusion on the submission of information by the Council of Ministers on the state and activities undertaken in BiH on preventive protection and the fight against influenza A virus, H1N1 (proposed by Honored MP Rifat Dolić); 28. Giving consent to ratification (a) of the Agreement of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Kingdom of Denmark on Development Co-operation. We're moving on to the realization of the proposed agenda. Let's go to point one. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 63rd session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30495	Since there are no colleagues of Križanović, I found in one place a technical error in which points 13, 14, and 16. – writes who participated in the debate, writes – Jozo Prodanović. Since there's no such thing here, I think it's working, someone should change their name or name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30496	Thank you. The secretary will find out what's wrong with either his name or his last name, so he'll fix it. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. MP questions: (a) Comments on answers received 18 Comments on the answers received. The questions to this session were answered: Šemsudin Mehmedović of the Council of Ministers, asked questions at 52, 59 and 61 of the Ministry of Security, asked at 59th sessionJašarević Željko Ajanović of the Council of Ministers, asked at 59th session; Slavko Matić of the Council of Ministers, asked at 56th session; Drago Martin of the Council of Ministers, asked questions at 45th and 57th session; Denis Bećirović of the Council of Ministers, asked on 9th, 10th and 62th, and asked by the Ministry of Justice, asked at 62nd and 63rd session; Husein Nanić of the Council of Ministers, asked on 14th, 50th and 61st session; Jerko Lijanović of the Council of Ministers, on the question asked at the 26th and Ekrem session; the Head of Justice of the Council of the Ministers; the Ministers of the Ministers of the Ministers of the Council, the Council on the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers, the Council of the Council of Ministers, the Ministers, on the Council of the Council on the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Ministers, on the Ministers, on the Ministers, on the Council of the Council of the Council of the Ministers, the Ministers, on the Ministers, on the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, on the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers of the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers of the Ministers, the Ministers of the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers of the Ministers of the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, Mr. Answering our emergency with 61st session Selim Bešlagić of the Ministry of Communications and Transport, asked at the 59th session; Niko Lozančić of the Constitutional Commission, asked at the 9th session, also answered our emergency with 61st session; Sead Jamakosmanović of the BiH Ministry of Defence, asked at the 62nd session; Rifat Dolić of the Council of Ministers, asked at the 34th session, Ministry of Defence, asked at the 62nd session and the BiH Ministry of Justice, asked at the 59th session; Azra Alajbegović of the Council of Ministers, asked at the 56th session; Milorad Živković of the Council of Ministers, asked at the 59th session. We're going with comments on the answers delivered. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30498	I thank you, Mr. President. The question I asked at the 59th session of the Council of Ministers concerned the Federation Government's decisions on radical change in the course of the southern section of Corridor 5C, which, since adopted, we know under what circumstances, means, without a single vote of ministers from the Croatian people's order. I received a response from the Council of Ministers set out at the 104th session, since 12.11. this year, and with it, I can only say, only partially satisfied, because in this response the Council of Ministers cites the chronology of certain decisions taken both at the level of the BiH state and within the structures of the Federation, from Parliament to the government, but there is no clear answer to the question of what is the most important project, not only infrastructure in this country and region, and why it is late, and why it is so slow to realise. And there's no direct answer to the question of whether he's currently being blocked. So, one correct information is given and a review is given when the proposal is submitted, when the documentation is made, that the latest proposal, which the government has offered, departs from the proposal accepted by the State Ministry through the planing and study documentation, but there are no deadlines in which the Federation Government will determine the final appearance of the route and propose it to Parliament and bring it into line with the State Ministry of Transport and Communication. In particular, there is no answer whether 240m euros in funding for the signing of a credit agreement for three 19 shares of Počitel – Vijača, Vlakovo – Tarcin and Svilaj – Odjak will be able to realise this country at all. I therefore believe, therefore, that I will repeat this question to the Council of Ministers, expect the Council of Ministers to see what it will do, given that it is responsible for this project, that both blockades and delays and funds are indeed placed in one balance and that the work on this project will finally begin and responsibility to those who, for their own reasons, are untransparently preventing the realisation of this most important project.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30499	Thank you. Is this an honorary Member of the Vesna Šain, or a business intervention? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30500	Dear Chairman, on behalf of the SNSD Club, I'd like a half-hour break. So, at 12:00, a conference begins jointly against violence against women, organised by the Gender Equality Agency and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees in co-operation with the Federation of BiH and Gender Centres of the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30501	Thank you. In case, please, in accordance with Article 77. The Rules of Procedure of any club of MPs have the right to request a break of up to 30 minutes for each appropriate point and the chairman is obliged to give a break immediately. I ask Mrs. Šain: Is it possible for us to work with these questions by 12:00, not to take a break immediately, so that at 12:00 a.m., we can take a break? At the same time, due to the commitments made by the Kolegijum in connection with the arrival of the Kuwaiti delegation, the lunch break will be from 13.00 to 14.30. I ask dom: Is it okay if we take a break from 12:00 to 2:30 so we can finish all these jobs, and then it'll be for lunch and everything? _________(?) 20 [[no microphone turned on]] No, because at 13.15 with the Kuwaiti delegation, we need to have a meeting by 2:00. So it's the least we can do by 14:30, so let's make a deal, it already means 12.00 to 14:30 to be a break. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30503	It's just...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30504	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30505	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30506	It's about the money that BiH got from selling part of the salary of the former Marshal's barracks here in Sarajevo. That is, therefore, the plot and buildings that were given to use the Sarajevo University but it is the owner of that state of BiH and we have made the decision to sell here. And it's all right, it's all legal, the money's been charged, but the money hasn't been distributed to the Sarajevo University to which it should belong. I received an answer from the Council of Ministers on this question, because I asked what about the money, why not give it to the Sarajevo University. Then it was said that they proposed to Parliament in 2005 that Parliament determine how these funds would be used. I'm asking you as a college to take a little interest in that thing, because that's the answer that came to me as an agent. I can't continue to be interested in seeing what's on that relationship and making the right decisions to get the money to the Sarajevo University. That the thing is no longer blocked, because if that thing is blocked, then we will find a place in BiH where we can behave in the same way. And this is a request for you as a College to be interested and to see with the Council of Ministers that money is given to the University of Sarajevo. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30507	Thank you. Please note that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30508	No microphone 21
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30509	He'll dobići an answer from the MP, we need to see what's going on first. Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30510	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have a need to comment on the answer to one parliamentary question. On my request, I received an updated response from the Ministry of Justice in the Council of Ministers, to the parliamentary issue concerning the number and financial value of BiH's powerful judgments on the burden of the budget at all levels of government, whose execution has been delayed in any way. Let me remind you, I asked the question at the 48th session of 18. 3. and request for addition at the 59th session of 2. 9th and after the supplement I did not get a satisfactory answer to the asked question. I understand that the Ministry of Justice is objectively unable to deliver a full answer, because there is no single register of powerful and incomplete judgments and there are no mechanisms to force all levels of government and courts to deliver this information. I mean, after all, that this is another and too serious question to be approached extremely unseriously and irresponsiblely by all levels of government. It is clear after all that even birds do not know the financial weight of BiH's non-rule verdicts on the burden of budgets at all levels of government. As far as irresponsibility is concerned, I will remind you that in the first version, I received the answer that the total amount of non-rule sentences in BiH is 24 million KM. In commenting on the answer, I said it was incorrect, because according to my knowledge only in the Un-San canton that amount is twice as high. Confirmation that this is true is in addition to the answer where it reads: 'The Ministry of Finance of the UN-San canton states that at the Unic Credit Bank, as a depositary bank, on the 25th day of 25. Nine. In 2009, there are a total of 4.326 judgments of 29.000,159 KM, excluding interest and other costs of the procedure.’ It should be said that these are not judgments for old foreign savings or something. It is clear that non-executive verdicts and judicial judgments are a problem that must be more occupied by the authorities of this country, because they are the place, the first human rights violations, and then a dangerous fuse for bankruptcy of countries that, as BiH approaches, will be increasingly at risk of being burned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30511	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Željko Kuzmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30512	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, on my question of spending funds from a stand-by arrangement with the IMF and the purpose for which it has been used, I would like to thank the Council of Ministers, in particular the Ministry of Finance for their involvement in obtaining a response from the Federal Ministry of Finance 22 and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia, by not being satisfied with the length of the response of either ministry, with a special reference to the Federation Ministry of Finance which provided a response to the cost of their budget lending, and the rest of the funds, or the purpose of spending other funds, have not been provided, so I will probably repeat this question. Of course, I'll wait for this second tranche to be agreed on by the IMF, and then I'll submit a new question about spending the funds afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30513	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bajazit Jašarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30514	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, I received an answer set at the 45th session: "When will the Excise Act come into parliamentary procedure?" The answer is correct, of course he came with a great delay, I'm satisfied with the answer. But please correct the technical error, it was written that the question was asked at the 45th session, held on 27. 5. 2009 and that the Excise Act in BiH was adopted at the 54th session of the House of Representatives, held on 27 March 2009 5. In 2009. So in order not to turn out to be asked the question and the law adopted at the same session, let it be corrected as it is true, that the question was asked at the 45th session, held on 4. 2. In 2009. This is all checked out, but let's leave a clue that it wasn't in the same session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30515	Thank you. This is gonna be fixed. Dear Ambassador Savo Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30516	Gentlemen Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to ask you and repeat my two questions: one question I asked and one about the VAT inflow, and another question relating to the 2010 budget proposal, so please just let me get those two answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30517	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30518	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. 23 I have asked a few questions, and they are bound by a law that we have brought here. So I'd really like to comment on that. Namely, it's about that famous import of sugar, so I asked, "What companies have applied to use sugar import quotas." And I got the answer that one company signed up, it's "Studen-Agrana" d.o.o. I could also ask how, in what way all sugar producers were informed that the quota was called, so I would probably get the answer that on the Council of Ministers' website there was a list of laws that he proposed, so that on the... website of Parliament there was a list of laws that Parliament adopted and, ultimately, that it was published in "The Official Messenger". I probably wouldn't get an answer about what would happen if anyone else called in to use this customs relief. The second question, 'how much was used', I got the answer that 86.04 was used, which will say that someone reported that they could use very little of this because it was already used 86.04. Third, 'what measures the Council of Ministers has taken to prevent possible abuse of law', I was given the answer that raw materials were used for the purpose of producing sugar. I just don't believe it. So, here we have controlled that sugar cane sugar is solid, or raw sugar is used to produce sugar. And it's a good thing it's not for cocaine. I don't know what else this could be used for. Therefore, very effective control has been established for the purpose of the use of imported sugar. I asked further if the Council of Ministers has called a public tender, and it has been said that the Council of Ministers has not opened a public tender, because the Council of Ministers has no need in such cases to call a tender, since it was not foreseen by law. That's the law we passed here. But what is unnecessary in the full response is the following sentence or part that says: 'CEFTA sugar rate for refinement is 10+1%, while... sugar from the countries signatories of the CEFTA Agreement is imported into BiH without payment of customs duties'. Now this sentence applies to at least a few dozen more goods in this country, which neither the Council of Ministers was prepared to put on this list. He even warned us here about violating the CEFTA Agreement if, God Bog, someone showed up with a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30519	I can see there's a certain sugar investigating commission coming up, but I'm asking you to stick to the weather. In three minutes to give an answer, comment on the answer. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30520	Dear Chairman, I suggest that, as far as possible, we speed up today's session. That is why I propose that you, as chairman, conclude this 2nd item of the agenda, and that all of us, including myself, who have prepared new parliamentary questions to deliver it, as the Rules of Procedure and orders, in writing and that the continuation begins from point 3. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30521	Thank you. Dear MP Mehmed Suljkanović, who sought business intervention. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30522	I had the same, the exact same proposal was, since we have the answers in writing, to simply attach them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30523	Dear President, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30524	I would like to comment on the response to the MP's question. In fact, I am not satisfied with the answer, because I did not ask the Council of Ministers to provide me with partial answers to each individual ministry, but quite clearly and loudly: "Is there any transfer of jurisdiction in the laws we have passed, and more importantly, in fact, the effects of these... institutions that have been established?" And I expect to get such a consistent answer for the entire Council of Ministers, not individually. I thank the Ministry of Security for giving the answer. So I repeat this question. We are now putting to the vote the proposal of the honourable MEP Bećirović to stop asking questions and deliver them in writing. I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At this session? Yeah. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 24 votes (18 from the Federation, six from RS), a sufficient entity majority. I find that MPs can provide new questions in writing. We move to the next item of the agenda after the break at 14.30. 25 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30528	Nikola Špirić 26
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30529	I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30530	I will first repeat the consistent and principled position of the SDP Parliament Club, which is that all state authorities should function effectively and responsibly and in full capacity. In this sense, the SDP does not have any dilemma that all authorities, especially the BiH Council of Ministers, should work fully and make up for the huge lost time behind us. However, today at this point in the agenda it is quite logical that, as representatives of the largest opposition party in Parliament, we ask the question What was waiting for this appointment almost, behold, four months? Do those who have blocked the appointment, what has changed in these four months, I think that this Parliament and the public deserve to receive decadent and clear answers to this issue. Today we have to ask a question of responsibility for a situation like this, because what we had, and we still have in BiH, when it comes to the Council of Ministers, this has not been recorded so far in BiH. This is absolutely one political race that has probably not been recorded anywhere in Europe, not in the world, that coalition partners, who make up one power to one another, treat one another in this way. But the least of it is that they treat each other that way, the problem is that, because of that relationship and that kind of government, ordinary people in this country suffer. I am particularly sorry that the BiH Parliament and the Council of Ministers of BiH have been transformed into a kind of trade shop, not to say the harder word - markets, in which even normal fill-ups of certain ministries are a matter of trade, delay, bickering, etc. I don't think that's how we contribute to building credibility, not the Council of Ministers, not this Parliament, not this state. The SDP's position on the appointment itself is also very clear. We were against this Council of Ministers of BiH. More than three years ago, we presented very clear arguments as to why we are against it. All that we stated three years ago was completely, unfortunately, true in these three years, and I'm afraid that if today, hypothetically, I say, in this Council of Ministers of BiH, even Nikolasa Sarkozi were to be the Minister of Security, he would not be very useful to this Council of Ministers. In this regard, I will not speak personally of counterpart Ahmetović, a man I personally appreciate and respect, but I believe that in this relationship with the Council of Ministers, with this kind of work, with this attitude of those who exercise power, there is absolutely no progress there. It is unlikely that it will be in these last 10-11 months of this term. So we at the SDP Club will be against it. In addition, I would also like to add, in the end, that, when the SDA has already filled its seat in the Council of Ministers of BiH, it would be good if the SDA itself had a little more sensitivity for what our colleague and colleagues often call the 'GENDER project'. In fact, out of nine SDA MPs, as the largest current parliamentary party, there is not a single woman. Of all the ministers in the Council, 27 SDA ministers have not offered a single woman. Therefore, it was expected that at least here at one ministerial post, the SDA has a sensitivity for a woman to come to that place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30531	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30532	I have to say a few words to my colleague Bećirović, because yet he reads us a moral lesson here: a SDP consistent, a SDP for the entire Council of Ministers. It was this SDP who voted against Minister Tarik Sadović. If so, then you should vote for this Minister Ahmetović. If you stick to what you're saying, shop, market, if anyone knows a good store, market, that's what you SDP know. You've learned nothing more than that, wherever... you're in power all over BiH, you're going for chickens and eggs, not some other chair. So don't transfer it to anyone else. And you beat up Dodik, and he didn't want you. You'd be in this six right now. You have no right, gentlemen of the SDP, to read the lesson, because your consistency is known: from Bihac to Gorazd, wherever anyone wants you, you go to the power of the egg one, not the function and chair. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30533	Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30534	So I call on Mr Bahtić as much as possible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to intensify the SDP-oriented replicas. We've been doing very well in the last two or three years as he goes with those replicas. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30535	Hold on, hold on, hold on. Šefik, are you?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30536	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30538	I'm not going to get too involved in this, there's no need, I mean we know everything already in BiH when this thing is in question, just about this gender. So it is true that we today have nine MPs 28 and that out of nine MPs none are women, all men, but I would also remind that in the previous SDA Parliament's meeting of 10 MPs, four were women. So 40% were women. And, please, you know that. It's just the circumstances of what they eat. The SDA has always been sensitive, therefore, and will also be sensitive in the future to this issue, and after counterpart Sadik Ahmetović, in any case, it is up to a lady from the SDA to come into our ranks. For the truth to be known, only here in Parliament. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30539	Thank you. Sadik Bahtić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30540	To my colleague Bećirović, he says they're doing the right thing. Now, you'll have my replicas by the end of my term on this big corruption affair and your crime, what are you doing where you are in power? Well, everybody just voted for you, but the people will see that you're the biggest thieves and criminals and the biggest affairs where the SDP is in power. So let everyone vote for you, and I say it everywhere, and I will say it, and it will be so.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30541	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30542	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30543	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say that the atmosphere looks quite solemn in the election of the Minister of Security, so here I am not to spoil, so these bright faces of colleagues who are ready to support Mr Ahmetović as Minister of Security. It would really be good if this decision, which we received today by the chairman, or at least in its explanation, were any attempt to see what was going on in the period of 28. 8. In 2009, since the CEC submitted its report on the similarity of candidates and since the Agency for Investigation and Protection established the accuracy of the candidate's data for the security minister. I assume he's also the chairman of the 28th. Eight, so here he is today doing the candidate's checks, because I don't see here that it's possible he was doing anything else. But it is, when we look at this report, it really works that way. He says, 'After a report on the truthfulness of the data', and now an explanation from which, etc., 'the CEC on meeting the conditions of Sadik Ahmetović, provided for in Article 10c) of the Council of Ministers, has been made a decision on the appointment.' So that, after which it happened 28. 8. In 2009 and immediately thereafter, it means 29 about three months, the chairman of the Council of Ministers made the decision. I think this shows overall relations within BiH. In fact, this choice shows a total of relations within BiH. The fact that there is no Council of Ministers chairman here today when his deputy is elected, according to his proposal, is also talking about it, and about co-operation in the future between, I believe today, the elected or newly elected minister, but it speaks more than that. It says that this parliamentary majority, in addition to all disagreements, has entered into a phase of disagreement over human resources solutions. So, at least so far, it wasn't a problem, and now it's become a problem. So far, it's been very easy to agree only on the position, the position, and very difficult on the principle. Now it seems to have become a problem and personal solutions. How important this place is also talking about the fact that BiH has been good for several months or more than a quarter and has no minister and it all works like it has a minister, or nothing works like it has a minister. So today we haven't solved it, except we're going to choose the minister and vice president, we haven't solved anything. And that's why I got up, because of this last sentence, to say that with this solution, not because of Sadik Ahmetović, not because of the name and last name, not because of the personal solution, but because of the way we came to this solution and because of all these and all these atmospheres and so far, and today it's evident that nothing will change in this ministry or in the Council of Ministers, so if you want to go to BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30544	Dear President, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30545	Thank you. Here, let me start in the back. So, the atmosphere in BiH has long not been a candlestick, and we all know that here, and the reasons for this are numerous and are not just about the parliamentary majority. At the same time, for questions to be addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the committee of clubs who were in session this morning could have been in accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Commission to prepare the Council of Ministers' election to seek a statement, in this case, which was proposed by Mr Sadik Ahmetović as Minister of Security, to explain this. No one, not even from your club, asked for it on that committee, and he was right. And you all know that Mr. Špirić is in the UN and yesterday and today and I don't see any reason why he would call himself because he's not attending today's session. At the same time, when you point to a problem in forming government at the level of the BiH state, it would be good to show examples of where you and your presence have shown how it can be formed at the level of municipalities, cantons or, say, the city of Mostar, because then you could also tell us the way the opposition can show how it should be done. And that's enough of the words or letters of position or the majority of Parliament, and you've shown by your own example nowhere how it can or should be done. At the same time, when we talk about today's agenda, the SNSD had a clear attitude and said it through its members this morning. He asked the candidates to make it clear and loud about three things, the same things the party itself asked to change, and we voted because that's what 30 SDA parties asked to replace their previous security minister. To solve the problem of terrorists in BiH once and the centre issues where they have been transferred from the centre to the justice ministry for many months now. You can't spin around such an important problem. To make a clear and loud determination towards the blockade of other appointments on the agenda in the Council of Ministers. And as a third, as a moral person, in case the election commission finds itself conflicting interest, to withdraw themselves from that place in order not to unnecessarily open the story that we had in a few things here in Parliament. And we've received assurances for all, all three of our demands that they will be irrevocably met. And that's what we wanted to hear out loud from the people who will be proposed to this place, and then we'll see who leads the consistent and principled politics in BiH. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30546	Well, I want to correct one of the president's allegations. In fact, the members of the Commission are not proposed by clubs, nor are they in front of clubs in this commission, but are political parties of the coalition and independent candidates. So it is defined by Article 1 of the decision, so that the failure to appear or... the issue of the chairman's Council of Ministers is not the result of the club... or the presence or absence of a representative of a political party. Of course, even if it wasn't, and that in a way like the chairman said, it does not release the chairman's council of ministers to answer the question of MPs here regarding some misunderstandings related to this election, and nothing else. And I still think it would be much better if when choosing the vice president that he's here today as chairman. I think it would be correct for this parliament to confirm its appointment and which I assume has a majority, a necessary majority for that. But regardless of even having the required majority, it would be correct to respond to those who are not part of the majority, and I think there is much to be answered about this appointment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30547	Replica, Honorary Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30548	I thank you for these additional clarifications, but I would like to say that the SDS Club, which you participated in at the beginning of this session, gave its member to that commission. After that, in accordance with Article 30(a) under number 2 and mandate, or members of that committee may not change, regardless of who leaves their party. Therefore, you could not have been a member of this committee, but you were right, since you were in a party at the beginning of your term in the same, to ask your member to do so. And at the request of that member, a request could have been made, with which perhaps this commission would have decided or even I think it would have violated the Rules of Procedure if it had not waited for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to appear and to respond to the request of a member of this commission to have the chairman explain. Hence, there were opportunities and do not blame anyone else because we ourselves did not respect or take advantage of these opportunities. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, please, I think it's your turn. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30549	Thank you, Chairman. As for the Commission and its position, or seeing it take the position of Parliament, that is impossible. Here every MP should get a stenogram from that committee if he wants to know everything he said and said, because it is not seen from this record, and otherwise, I think that every MP, because the House of Representatives confirms this decision by the Council of Ministers, has the right to ask what he is interested in, so that I too can be interested in something else from this morning until now. I didn't even know that the chairman of the Council of Ministers was here, and I wasn't interested in him on this committee, and I'm interested in him here right now, but since he's not here, it's something else. At the meeting, the Commission discussed some other issues and similarities of candidates, not the Chair of the Council of Ministers, etc. That's what I'd ask him today if he were here, but, my Bog, he's not here or what I'm gonna do. It could've been done to be present, maybe someone else's choice. When it was three months, it could have been three months and seven days, because it seems to me to be Parliament on Wednesday, but good. But what made me particularly happy on this committee and I had to give one finding, let this parliament know, and it seems to me that it would be very important because everyone who thinks he made a mistake, and there was after Mr. Tarik Sadović's shift discussion of certain MPs whether or not he should have... We have heard from the candidate minister today that the situation at the Ministry of Security, thanks to the deputy minister who served as Minister of Security in this period, is much better, that consolidated orders and that soft and consolidated relations with the international community and domestic and foreign institutions etc., etc., which means that those from the SDA themselves have acknowledged that the shift to their proposal was as it should have been and that this parliament probably did not make the wrong decision. Today, whether he will get the candidate support for the minister, Mr Ahmetovic or not, it now depends on the position mostly or on the others he wants to give, but regardless of which I loved, or probably we would like to have him here and the chairman of the Council of Ministers to ask him about the deputy, because he will also be his deputy, but since he did not, that question is now out of the question. And so those who today support this Council of Ministers, they will have the right to collect the laurels of his work, and those who do not support it will be denied that right and vice versa; if the Council of Ministers does not meet its requirements, those who today supported the Council of Ministers will not be able to buy these laurels but will be able to receive criticism from those who have said that the Council of Ministers will eventually not be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30550	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the agenda. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Office for the Review of the BiH Institution 32 You received a report from the BiH Institution Audit Office on the audit of the BiH institutions for 2008 29. Six. 2009; 6. Seven. In 2009, you received a review of the Office's opinion on the revision of the operations of those institutions. As indicated in the call for a session, the 28th institution has a positive opinion, and 31 institutions have received an opinion with the reserve. The Finance and Budget Committee is 6. 11. In 2009, she delivered a summary opinion on the financial institutions' financial performance audit reports for 2008, with the proposed 10 conclusions that were immediately forwarded to you. Conclusions! Do I need to read these conclusions? Because of the stenogram, there's seven of them, there's plenty of them, there's plenty of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30552	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30553	Business? Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac. Here you go. About what?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30554	I'm really sorry, I expected a slightly different set-up so we didn't respond in time to the previous point. I think it would be good, as was the practice, to hold a vote within this point of appointment, because it is still a solemn act and to do so, to make an exception in terms of not voting at the end of the session but to end this point and end this point. I suggest we do that, if we agree, there's no business replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30555	It's not a business intervention, since it doesn't say that anywhere in the Rules of Procedure, it can now be your motion to vote. It may be a motion to vote, but then we have to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30556	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30557	On behalf of the SNSD Club, 15 minutes break. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats. The chairman of the SNSD Club wanted to comment on the break. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30559	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here, in a somewhat longer period of time in these consultations, even though it's not a practice, we've been considering Mr. Genjac's proposal. It might make sense that we did it at the beginning of the session, so it would make that kind of sense, but here's to not being misread, we still accepted that we can do this job now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30560	Given that the proposal was by the SDA to vote on this immediately, I ask you first to make a statement on the proposal, and if the proposal receives support, we will also vote on the Chairman's decision. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 34 votes, there were no votes "against" and "abstained", all were to confirm the decision of the chairman's vote immediately. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 27 votes, "against" six, "abstained", one with a sufficient entity majority and I find that we have confirmed the decision of the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman on the appointment of Sadik Ahmetović as BiH Security Minister and deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers. Please, Mr Sadik Ahmetović, Minister, approach the solemn oath. 'I declare
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30562	'I declare
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30563	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30564	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30565	I respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30566	I respect the BiH Constitution, 34
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30567	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30568	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30569	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30570	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30571	Congratulations. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30572	Dear colleagues, the esteemed chairperson, I thank all those who voted, of course, and those who did not vote, I hope that we will work together in the future, because I will be able to recognise the relationship between the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as I come directly from the parliamentary benches to the Council of Ministers. I hope that in the future we will work well together and that, if Bog does, we will take our country on a journey that is expected by all citizens in BiH, that is its European path. Thank you very much. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30573	Thank you, Minister. We're going to agenda item four, it's about Ad. 4. BiH Institutions Audit Office Report The House of Representatives will also send all the conclusions to the Council of Ministers, the conclusions of our commission, with the request that the Council of Ministers of BiH provide the House of Representatives with feedback on these budget cuts, no later than 31. 12. In 2009, it is in line with this conclusion number 10. 35 And to remind you, the subject of the statement is to report the BiH institutions' audit offices for 59 institutions with the Assembly opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission, with Annexes 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. I'm opening a debate. I ask the Office for Auditing whether it is necessary to give preliminary consideration or to let the discussion be opened first by the MPs, so that in case you need to report for a certain sign? Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30575	Thank you. As you know, the BiH Institutions Audit Office conducted an audit for 2008 into 59 state institutions. Of the 59 institutions, 28 were given a positive opinion and 31 were given an opinion with a qualification (reserves), meaning that certain irregularities and non-compliance with the law were observed in their work. The Finance and Budget Commission adopted the Work Plan and methodology for the analysis of the audit reports, and we also adopted a summary opinion on the audit reports and financial operations of BiH institutions for 2008. You've all got this summary opinion. The first was, then, that methodology of work, and it consisted of holding sessions of the Commission within two months and completing all these reserve reports. Three sessions were ten, eleven, the fourth was this summary opinion. I have to say, there are my colleagues, that all the institutions that had an opinion with the reserve have come to public hearings, some have already removed the recommendations, some of them are in progress. I think there's a lot of movement. The advantage is that this year's positive opinions just mean we commend those who had 28, and those who had reserves, so we invite them to these public hearings. And we take special care of those institutions, this year there were 14, which a few years ago have a constant opinion with the reserve. I said that this approach to this commission, thanks first and foremost to the DFID, the United Kingdom government's Department of International Development, and USAID, has proved very successful, because we have more and more positive reports year by year. In 2006, it was five, 2007, eleven, this year 24. Most often they repeat themselves in the audit findings, the recommendations were weaknesses in budget planning, so we had a surplus income of 110 million, which shows that some institutions are very, very bad planning, spending everything on wages and expenses, and where they need to be seen their work, development, there very little is left over funds. And those funds would be very welcome to another institution. Also, the internal control system: from 59 to 35, a lack was observed. Public procurement: 34 out of 59, etc., not to read, you have this..., I hope you have read. We have proposed conclusions, 10 conclusions and the paper is that now in the conclusions, not to read all 10, only in the conclusions of 8 and 10, that we first introduce responsibility. Because without responsibility, the effect of this work is not the best. In this conclusion, number 8, you read "the House of Representatives tasked the Council of Ministers of BiH with preparing and delivering the draft law on the completion of the Law on State Service in BiH" within the shortest period of time, where failure to comply with the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary 36 Assembly on audit reports will be prescribed as a violation of official duties, with the aim of determining the disciplinary responsibility of the responsible persons in BiH institutions of established findings. So far, there has been no such thing, and we know that there are disciplinary rules: easier and more serious injuries. So, all those who do not respect this house's recommendations will be sanctioned in a certain way. Also, we have already reduced by 14 institutions by 10%, who had... three years back with a reserve, when it comes to fuel costs, oil, car purchases, use, replacements, etc. This year we have introduced a newspaper from UK experience, so we have been working on that institution that has the worst report a few years ago, in this case it was the Ministry of Defence, we have scheduled one session only for this Ministry of Defence, so we are doing it in Great Britain, and they are also the biggest budget user, so the session is under way, we are coordinating with the Office of State Audit and the DFID on issues and all that. I think we did a great job thanks to all of us, not just us, so teamwork, we have good cooperation with... The BiH Institutions Audit Office. Parliament praised our work last year and I think, I said, that we have achieved significant and good results in this area. This is a very, very important area. I am sorry that individuals and ordinary people, few people understand – audits, in the west and in the world are given a lot to this revision. In the United States, some countries choose an auditor for life, and about 15 years, it is elected even directly in the elections. So much man is independent, so much works, but it eventually has... effect. It has an effect because the revision should tell us how it works, whether the funds spent have achieved their goal. The public and citizens, of course, are interested in how these funds are spent. And as far as I'm concerned, I've already said, financial audits, I think we've done a lot of things here. Next year I expect even better results. But we're still going, and we want our Audit Office to go into impact review. They have made a pilot project with two institutions, an impact review that will nevertheless show whether the institutions have worked economically, efficiently and effectively, means these three "e". We still have an institution, we have a director who makes such a nice budget, goes here to the Council of Ministers, Parliament, and the effect of his work is zero, there's nothing. I was saying that, some are more out than here, more on the plane than on the ground, no more. And when an impact review is done, we also have experience and other countries, then you know exactly about every institution... what it does, how much, if it's invested in health care, whether the effects are justified... whether there are more dead, dead, and in infrastructure, roads and so on. I believe that the Office for the Review of the Institutions of BiH, although it is a young institution, has really done a lot, and when it comes to all state institutions, those who are dependent on the state budget, believe me, they have already entered the system so much, and I hope for a year, for almost two years, that as far as financial audit is concerned, we will achieve excellent results and move on to impact review. And my Bog, the entities go on, let them work, we have a low-level audit problem, cantons, municipalities, funds, there's still a revision that's never been made, in a lot of municipalities never even entered... And as for the state level, we've done a great job here. I said our countries are not even close to this area as far as BiH is concerned. I wouldn't do it anymore, whoever read this report saw it was thoroughly done. This is nothing repressive, this is all preventive, so, my Bog, just read and remove this. All that can be removed, and I think we're here to help each other and to suggest. 37 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30576	Thank you. The next one was registered for discussion by Honourable Ambassador Savo Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30577	I'd really like to commend the Office for the review. From the previous two reports, this report certainly differs both quantitatively and qualitatively. The material that we have received, and this brochure, means, which we have in front of us, we can see exactly what our seriousness is and how all the institutions chosen from this Parliament are doing in fact. I'll look back on these incomes and expenses, and then I'll give some of my opinions about the expenditure part. So the arrivals of 77.22 and primarily relate to indirect taxation. The necessary revenues are 9.24 and current in the form of money shares are 2.8 which shows that we are not transparent in revenues. Now, I'm going back to that expense story, so we see how it's being spent, and this parliament would certainly have to pay more attention to how these funds are being spent, and the question of how the next generations that come behind us will have the opportunity to see that revenue side. So if we look at the salaries, so the expenditure, it's 49.62, the employee costs of 16.7, travel 2.2 and order, so now we look at this blue chart, we'll see that all the story comes down to the cost part. The task of the audit and all of us is to see how this money is transparently spent and to see how to reduce that expenditure part, that means definitely justifiable existence. The audit office has indeed made a major shift this year compared to the previous two years, which was said by counterpart Bahtić, just because one part of the institutions never wanted to come to this commission, submit their report, explain the report, mean that they were acting on their own initiative, self-initiatively, and have acted arrogantly, not interested in Parliament's opinion. And they also show that they have received power from their party and that they do not need to respond to anyone and most likely to behave in this way through spending. If we look at 51% of such institutions having an opinion with the reserve, I can freely add that these are negative opinions that should really be sent out of here with much more attention and more criticism. If we take just one item here: rent costs 25,367,139 on one annual level; if we already know that we're here for ten years, we take one decade forward or backwards, whatever you want, that's 250 million. Is anyone in the Council of Ministers discussing that you should definitely put an end to the lease, create space and put into office the executive institution that is the subject of this audit? If we look at it that way, then we'd have to put an end to the lease, the cost of the phone, the 18 million travel expenses, the energy of 19 million. Let's see where it can be saved and in this recession let's see what our savings path is. It should definitely be the subject of the safe next budget I tried to talk about today. What is evident is that these 28 institutions, which have a positive opinion, are some bit of hope that something more serious will happen in these institutions in the future. And that's our job to try to see how much we can save next year, that's one question. And secondly, there is a question of responsibility and who is driving that responsibility. If we don't run it, then surely the following reports will be similar to these reports by now. 38 Thank you, so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30578	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30579	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to say just a few words. Since the revision is the BiH institution, it is based on the adopted plan made for 2008, then I can say that personally looking at this report that 28 has received a positive opinion and that 31 BiH state institutions have received an opinion with a qualification. Let me just highlight some of this data. I believe that the 2009 budget should go, as Mr. Erić said, to make a plan, to see if we will go further with the law, etc. But what's interesting here is these 31 institutions that got an opinion with a qualification. I've been trying to run a little analysis. Of those 31 institutions, 21 institutions have received, I would say, this qualification in part because they are public procurement, let's say, non-transparently done. Others are... other costs that are far less, but this 65%, means through public procurement and public procurement error, tells us that, apart from those responsibilities, we should introduce a seminar for the education of all these ministries that have this in public procurement education. Let me make a little parallel. We have reached a conclusion in the Traffic Act: if someone makes more mistakes, they have to go back to education. So when we were able to bring this into traffic, why couldn't we introduce it into the institutions of the BiH state that, for example, Two or three times it's been repeated that he didn't do it for public procurement. And what is very important to me and I would like to get and to confirm it, and here it is almost in all of these 31, as it is in these first 28, says this: the Agency’s financial operations during 2008 – this was the conclusion of all these institutions on all materially significant aspects in accordance with the applicable legislation except for the qualification referred to in point 1.2. - one means, let's say, procurement, the other is, I don't know, which says that there's a certain improvement, in my opinion, I have to say, but I think that here we should really go with the conclusions that the duty and obligations of those who work in these public institutions, who repeatedly repeat this error which is now public procurement, which is 65% represented, should, in fact, provide seminars for them and then I think that these reports would be far more positive in terms of a positive report for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30580	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Velimir Jukić. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30581	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, here, therefore, the Financial Business Audit Report for 2008 is a very interesting topic and in fact one of the roles of Parliament, which is the supervisory role, which is most widely expressed through the analysis of such reports. However, the purpose of the report is certainly to establish the state of law, the truthfulness of what was done in terms of financial transactions, the spending of public funds, with a view to improving and increasing the responsibility of all in the use and use of public funds. We have been as a competent commission over the past half of the year, and we have worked very intensively on these reports in recent years, so that we have passed certain and improved, we have seen some of the practices of some other countries, and I must say that my own assessment is that we have already done a lot in BiH. And if we compare ourselves to countries in the region, I don't think we're behind anything, if we're not in some elements, maybe even among the better. This, of course, should be thanked, first of all, and cavalier work, responsible, our auditors, but equally, I will be immodest, I believe that part of this contribution has been given by our commission, i.e. the commission of both at home, of course, and by the BiH Parliament. The statistics were discussed by the chairman of our commission, Mr. Bahtić, so I won't. I'm going to talk a little bit more about what, how and how we should do it in the next period, and we're going to advance our work, so I see the situation the next way. I think that we as a commission will have to make certain changes in our work in methodological approach to increase the quality of our work, and then overall monitoring and determining responsibility in spending public funds. So I think it would be a good idea to put in practice, and we're going to have to arrange that with the Audit Office, that the reports, which are done, can then be considered, and not get all the reports at the end of the sixth month, then we have just one pressure to do a quality review of these reports in a shorter time. But that's what we're going to do with our Audit Office, and I think that way we're going to do even better and more quality of our job, which is to carry out quality checks and, of course, give some recommendations. Furthermore, it is necessary to specify and address some questions about the conditions and procedures of public hearings. So it is known that a few years ago we introduced an institute of public hearings, which is certainly a very significant improvement in our work. And when we talk now to people who are responsible and in charge of law enforcement in the financial business of institutions, it has become quite normal for them to come, to answer questions at these hearings. And let's just say, when it was introduced a few years ago, there was a little bit of resistance, etc., but now it's already one state of mind, that's a job that's perfectly normal. We will also have to determine what is the minimum function, so whoever represents the institution, so that he can answer all the questions raised at these hearings. It is also necessary to further enrich cooperation with the Audit Office and to determine certain forms of cooperation on public hearings. In fact, I am saying this in the experience of some other countries that are and are our role model in this business, where the cooperation of the Office of Audit and members of this Commission is of quality and content, in the sense that previous meetings are held, where appropriate, by members of this Commission and the Office of Audit, relating to the revision of a particular institution, in order to clarify and raise such questions as will be relevant and give the right answers to what it wants to do through the qualification, in fact, in some ways, to investigate, or to clarify. 40 Furthermore, also that this job would be even better and more quality should be arranged for certain other changes, and these are changes in the planning of our budgets, but it is already working out, so people in charge of planning the budget of our institutions are also going through certain training and training as well as how to approach planning. Here, I'm going to say that this is a targeted budgeting goal when clear and defined objectives are set, and then to achieve these objectives, you're looking for certain means, which then creates the assumption that a quality impact review can be done. Because the question is how much can we sometimes talk about whether a goal is achieved, if, in fact, budget planning and budgeting for some budgets are not set clear goals. Furthermore, the impact review, I expect, in the coming period, to be the second step and that we will also have some institutions and already this year we have one institution that we have agreed to do, we will see what has been done, so that we can plan for the future even better. Also, an important assumption of even better and better quality work and what is seen as a lack is an unedited normative framework, with a lot of scarcity, and then the responsible people, the managers of institutions, are in some way almost, and forced to slightly improvise and a little bit and (perhaps some like, some do not like) decide with discretionary rights to determine for themselves something, because it is not normized in any documents. So we, through our report here, see that this report is intended to be passed, it seems to me, 60 or even more acts – from laws, sublegal acts, regulations, instructions and other acts – which will certainly then specify everything that is necessary to specify and determine, and then whoever implements the law simply has defined and will be much less volunteering and arbitrary in determining, I don't know what these are, how something, some expense is realized, justice etc. Here, these are the most important elements of our report. And another thing for the end, it has already been a little commentary, about which the most frequent failures and errors were... in the business of our institutions for the past year, so it is said that these are weaknesses in budget planning, internal control, unmade... internal controls, and it stands in recommendations in a very high place that this should be improved, weaknesses in the application of regulations, then public procurement, deficiencies, hence weaknesses in the functioning of IT systems etc. So I wouldn't repeat this all that's written in this report. Finally, I would say that we have done a lot, that we have improved the responsibility of spending the public funds of BiH institutions, the statistics show it best, and I expect that, in the next period, we will, in addition to all that I have said, also go and expect equally good results, perhaps better, with those conditions that I said, and that is even better and better quality planning, our cooperation with the Office for Auditing and Of course Enriching, i.e. rounding the normative framework with, I said, over sixty of the proposed acts here to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30582	Thank you. The next is Deputy Chairman Beriz Belkić. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30583	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll be very brief. So, I absolutely support this way of working and... the great effort that the Commission has done before, of course, and then the Commission has done. And this time we got really completely understandable matter, so sublimed, the grades are pretty clear and, in a way, we got a kind of shortened these procedures, short-term reports that could replace us reading hundreds of pages, etc. So, as far as I'm concerned, I kind of understood the overall situation. I absolutely support the conclusions proposed by the Commission. I guess they covered everything that was referred to as weakness and as a practice that wasn't good and that went that way. Chuck, here I see there are conclusions that go, in a way, towards some sanctions, budget cuts, etc. But I answered the most about one thing. So, we already have one situation today that has reached such a level that we can freely say that this practice and understanding of the need for this Office to exist and I think that in these Commission conclusions, or we should, in such a verbal way, express the support of the Audit Office, therefore, in relation to their work so far and reach the level of effects that they produce, invite them to remain independent, invite them to be completely depolitical, although we know in what way the appointments were, etc., but now there is a situation where this Office can really be completely independent, completely torn away by all possible, so to say, on the side of the attacks and that in co-operation with this Parliament really work is done properly. So, I am the most informed to express my support for the BiH Institutions Audit Office, to invite them to continue their work, and here in Parliament, through our committees and the Council of Ministers, we will seek to provide you with the conditions and assumptions that you can move to this second phase that we are all talking about, so this quality review that Mr. Jaferovic was talking about yesterday... and Mr. Džaferović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30584	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30585	Mr. Chairman, here we are, when the vice-president is short, then there's no point in me being long, so I'm going to say what I meant. First of all, I would like to commend our commission, which has worked very seriously and thoroughly on all these reports, with the fact that I must say immediately that I also have some objections to the Commission's conclusions, therefore not to the Commission's work, but to the conclusions of the Commission which I think, at times, the Commission has taken into account something that others should have done, and that is all the Commission has asked them to do. So, before I talk about it, I have to say I don't agree with those who say that significant progress has been made in the work of the institutions that are subject to review and that it should now be, I don't know, some kind of, let's say, is a positive impulse, but not in terms of praise. Because, look, we've been doing this job for years, reviewing for years, and auditors have been making remarks and at least it's natural that these remarks are being removed, and that there is no need to remove these remarks 42 for some special commendations, because that is probably the least that institutions are expected to remove the observations they have been warned about by the auditors. I also fully support the independence of the institution of the auditor, although I must say that when I proposed this law amending the Law on Audit, where I proposed and meant some possible different views on these issues, then even one of the auditors made a statement to one medium that it was a pressure on auditors. Watch out, so changing the law can't be a pressure on anyone. The law can be passed or not adopted. So I give full support, means the work of the audit, the independence of the auditor. I think that we need to find a different way of selecting an auditor so that they are not representatives of political parties, we should find some different way. Which one? I'm not so smart to know, but in any case, you should work more seriously to make sure that auditors are not subject to political calculations, agreements, etc., or their choice. When it comes to the Commission, so I commended her work, and here I am... preparing a few remarks that I would like to highlight. The Commission's proposal for a conclusion means under regular number 4, it is proposed to amend the Public Procurement Act, given that a large part of the audit findings relate to the complexity and poor application of certain provisions of the law. I have to say it also says that complexity and poor applicability are in place, but I'm not sure there are any intentional gaps and looking for holes in the law to avoid the application of the Public Procurement Act. And such a finding, at least according to what can be read here, could be added to these really problems in the application of this law. We know that we've already had two changes here, that they haven't received support in this House, that obviously there's something to be done, looks different than it's been done so far. What I don't think is good is that under point 6. The House of Representatives tasks the Council of Ministers to establish a programme of staff training by the end of the year to an organisation called the Ministry of Finance. I expected us to conclude that the Council of Ministers and Institutions that are listed here with this, I don't know, some remarks, etc. prepare us for a proposal of measures or action plan, however you will, to address these problems, or objections, and not to tell them what they will do, but to tell us what they will do so that it will not be and that we are considering such an action plan here in Parliament. It is still stated then what everything needs to include training and who needs to be included in that training. Well, if the Council of Ministers doesn't know that, if the ministries don't know that, if the executive angry there, I don't know how we can direct them in that direction. Another conclusion – I do not think he is well-formulated – is the conclusion of the 8th Council of Ministers, which requires the Council of Ministers to supplement the State Service Act in which "the failure to carry out the conclusions of the homes on audit reports will be prescribed as a violation of official duties". I think that, as a violation of official duty, it should be defined: not disrespect for the conclusions of the home, but a recommendation from the audit report. Therefore, the recommendations of the audit report should be subject to analysis by the managers and submission if they are repeated year by year, several times, the launch of certain disciplinary measures or other measures. And while I'm at these measures, I'm not a supporter of measures below 10, and that's where the mistakes are being repeated by the departments, and that, be careful, when you take the analysis here, they're all being punished for the cost of representation, fuel consumption and the purchase of new cars, or, I don't know, car equipment, etc., it's usually so that you could draw an easy conclusion that 43 there is unrealized fuel consumption, that the resources of the team are being spent unnecessarily, that cars and cars are being bought and maintained, etc. If that's the case, then it's a little small to do it according to the audit report. Then we should have done it differently. I'm not saying it's true or not, but I have a reservation to this conclusion, precisely because I can draw from it these conclusions that I've now drawn here in this story. Therefore, it would be necessary to correct these conclusions a little bit, especially those relating to amendments to the Law on State Service, where, under violation, it involves the non-execution of our conclusions, not audit remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30586	I thank you for the short notice of Honored Representative Novaković. Next is Honorable Representative Lazar Prodanović
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30587	Mr. Vice-President, Honorable colleagues and fellow Members, the honourable ministers, this is the third year in which this meeting of the House of Representatives discusses audit reports and cannot be seized by the pressure that positive progress has been made. However, my personal impression is that BiH is a rare country that seeks to develop a modern democracy and an orderly society where public revenues are irresponsibly spent, hence the funds of the BiH taxpayers. We are only considering one segment of it, it may be only 15% of the total public expenditure in BiH, but it does not release us from responsibilities in this sense to introduce greater order. I must say that the positive progress in the methodology of work, first of all, is from our commission to the reports that we receive and our approach to the analysis of these problems. But there's one more thing that's worrying. In BiH, in public, no report for the three-and-a-half years has been repercussed in terms of any degree of responsibility for abuse or inadequate use of public funds. Is this a problem of inadequate legal definition, when we talk about the revision, whether it is a question that has not been regulated by law, when the main audit service is auditing institutions, which are subject to review, that at the moment there is a strong abuse of public funds should end, say, the procedure and that the competent investigative authorities lead the procedure. We will often say that it is not our place to deal with issues of possible abuse, crime or anything. That's right, but we have to solve this problem. We can't point to failures for 10 years. These issues are issues that are unnecessary to talk about, to talk about what is needed, what level of government in BiH to do. I believe, for example, that it is necessary to point out the highest responsibility of the Council of Ministers that it must be determined according to audit reports and to report to Parliament, so both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which measures have been taken according to the responsible persons for the perceived failures. We don't need any legal regulations here. To explain, too, that only internal procedures currently lack 47 legal data, regulations, instructions and so forth. There are 22,000 employees in BiH institutions, I see absolutely no problem that we do not have the capacity to do this. 44 And we have a qualification that often deceives, so we have a certain opinion with a reserve and an opinion with a distraction and in a certain sense negatively, and only one, for these three years in one case. In fact, a negative report, regardless of how we want to present it in public, is every audit report that points to an opinion with a distraction, i.e. an opinion with a reserve in all these reports, and that is a very large number of remarks. I think in that sense it is necessary to do everything to make these issues and these problems correct. I don't see the reason why it wouldn't be as the highest degree of disciplinary responsibility either to implement the recommendations of the Chief Audit Service. I advocate full independence in every respect of the BiH Institution's Audit Office, but if we settle whether anyone is right, in that sense that we will remove it for this or that period, we will continue to tolerate unnecessary spending of... money. In this regard, I think it is necessary to approach as soon as possible before the revision of the impact of all institutions, or at least institutions that are significant consumers or significant institutions in terms of functioning of the BiH state. We must, for example, break up, when it comes to the Commission, break up the practice of calling on 10 institutions, call on two or 20 representatives who will be and end these public hearings within, I don't know, three or four hours. We have to point out every mark spent in any ministry, any agency, any institution. In order to indicate this, we need to take a more serious approach to a methodology that would be meant in this sense in order for the Chief Audit Office to point out issues that are significant, and how to conduct a public debate, and how the media will inform. Also, I think it is necessary to find a legal possibility for all institutions on their internet addresses to publish the cost, i.e. expenditure of their budgets, by name, from travel to the use of a service car or anything. If we don't do this, we'll have, say, some... to perfection can be done, that there's absolutely no violation in terms of what we're talking about right now, but that we have, say, an institution that has no effect on BiH, so for the functioning of the state has not contributed and that we have people who have infinite privileges that are wrapped up in one, conditionally said, rule, legal framework or anything. I think that there is much more to be done in this regard, and to do so requires strengthening, therefore impact review, it is also necessary to put in full the internal audit function, in line with the Law on Internal Audit in BiH institutions. So to do this, I think internal auditors should do their part of the job, according to the law, and that's not a negligible figure. The institutions that have high incomes, we say the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Security, security agencies or institutions in the country, cannot stand and that we always think about whether it is necessary to discuss it. I think so. I think there's a 360m budget in BiH, that we have to make it clear, let's say for the Ministry of Defence, what our goal is. Is standardisation according to NATO's rules a pact or is spending that money on a non-functional employed structure in the Armed Forces. No matter how much we confirm and say, you know, we're standardizing ourselves towards NATO, I often see it as a poor improvisation in some segments. Also, there is a need to open up the issue of spending funds for security agencies and each other. I don't see a reason... whether it's against the state's interest if we discuss it. Let's just say clearly that we can allocate so much and so much resources. It would be much more meaningful from the Ministry of Defence budget to invest 60 or 70 million marks on standardising equipment and weapons in accordance with NATO standards that awaits us, than to spend 20 or 30 million on some cost because we still haven't done or 45 to spend 20 million on maintaining inspective military facilities that, by all rules, should be written off or handed over to local communities or entities. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30588	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30589	Replica to Mr. Novaković. He mentioned the auditor's independence. Of course it is very important and important, but the independence of the auditors, at least with us, is not questionable to me and of course it is also related to the way of appointment. I think our procedures for the appointment of auditors are no worse than most procedures and ways to appoint auditors in the countries of Europe and beyond. The example works, in the United States the auditors are appointed by the President, confirmed by the Senate, or Congress. The term of office is even 15 years, some for life. In England in a very similar way, so Parliament. In some other countries, too. Sweden, Norway, again, very much alike. So the question of how, how does someone have to make appointments, but it's important to be independent in their business. And I think that, at least for me, it's not a dispute, I don't think it's a mistake. I'm going to comment on one more thing Mr. Novaković has problem with, and that is this conclusion number six. I think, among all these conclusions, that this conclusion is very good because it speaks of the training of those people and the training that do certain jobs and for whose execution it has been found, often, an observation in these reports. And it's very logical that these people first learn how to do these jobs, that they're not the mistakes they're making, perhaps due to the lack of knowledge and expertise of these people. And the first step that needs to be done is really to get people dressed and then, of course, extra-skilled do those jobs better. If he repeats after that, then the question is, eventually, both motives and intentions etc. But because of ignorance, I think it's a lot less responsibility than if something is done consciously. And in order for ignorance to be removed, then you have to learn, and the only way is to actually organize, here's this training to be perfected. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30590	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30591	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Audit reports if we pass this year, as so far, will not give effect, since we have always supported the audit reports. There's little results behind that. And that the small results speak about the repeated observations by the audit, i.e. those mentioned in the audit reports. 46 I will look back at the conclusions. This is Chapter IV, which means on page 11, where it is said, 'After a detailed review of the 2008 audit reports,' which I agree is really detailedly processed by both the Commission and the audit itself, 'the Commission proposes to the House of Representatives to adopt the following conclusions, with a view to creating general conditions for reducing the risk of repeating audit findings in a number of institutions.' Before I go to any particular conclusions, I'll tell you what bothers me here in the proposal for these conclusions. And that is, he says, 'in order to reduce the risk of repeating audit findings in a number of institutions'. There are no sanctions anywhere, gentlemen: 'in order to reduce the risk!' This tells you nothing concrete and does not oblige anyone in the sense that they do not repeat the same negative actions that the audit has established during the audit report, or control. So they should be proposals for sanctions that would follow for all those who do such things for the second time. Well, then he says it's up to him to adopt, suggesting the adoption of the following conclusions. He says, 'The House of Representatives should...' then that's not a proposal for a conclusion, I guess here it should stand that the House of Representatives stands out and praises etc. Well then, point two. The House of Representatives should adopt the proposed conclusions." I guess she's adopting them, if she's already giving Dom any conclusions about adopting them. Next, I'd look back at the point '3. The House of Representatives specifically asks the Council of Ministers, e, this is already a concrete conclusion,... 'that by the end of the current year, the auditory report for 2008, with the obligation to launch the activities set out in the conclusion of the 7th part of this summary report, and informing the House of Representatives no longer than six months from the date of delivery of the notice to the Council of Ministers of BiH'. In this conclusion, I'm not reading, you can see what it's supposed to be in this legislation that doesn't come to this. And I don't mind. However, in addition to this conclusion, I would suggest a more concrete conclusion and, in order not only to avoid repeating the conditions to re-make audit reports with opinions such as we have received for the time being, but also with a proposal for sanctions for all those who should not carry out what I am about to read, the Council of Ministers to propose to the Parliamentary Assembly and the Parliamentary Assembly to adopt them. Only in this way, if we have certain sanctions and repressions will we bring in all those entities, which have this current audit status at the end of 2008, have to seriously deal with how it will work in 2010 or 2009. ... My conclusion would be: 'On the basis of the summary opinion on the financial management reports of the BiH institutions for 2008 it is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to make a plan to remove the shortcomings mentioned in the reports, with a proposal for measures to not execute them,' (means, here specifically, a proposal for measures to not implement this plan which, possibly, the Council of Ministers would make and deliver to this Parliament and, if Parliament adopts it, means measures should be taken if someone did not respect it), 'and deliver them to the Parliamentary Assembly for adoption and in order to rationalise the spending of funds, and to fit into the world's austerity measures.' The deadline for drawing up the plan may be short, but it is only so effective that in the following year we will have a different state than we have in 2008 and I believe in 2009. 'The deadline for drawing up the plan until the adoption of this budget of the BiH institutions for 2010. year.' Why is that? So that we can, at least through the budget, sanction certain institutions that have not spent their resources rationally, and it is evident that there are, until the right proposal for measures by the Council of Ministers and adoption by this Parliamentary Assembly comes. 47 On page 5 of this report... The Agency for Identification Documents, etc. Here is also, these are the reasons why I have proposed this conclusion, presented several proposals or conclusions, where it is said: "The Commission requires further construction of an internal control system." It's abstract: warrants. No one's in charge, no one's responsible, no one feels called to do this. 'Finishment 3. Since weaknesses in the functioning of the IT system are repeated in 2006, 2007', (here you see, we keep on saying), 'in 2008, too, the Commission specifically draws attention and requires further construction of the system.' It's not like it's a special distraction. It's something to tell you that we were just arguing and we didn't want to do anything about it. To that end, it is my conclusion that I hope nothing else is colored, but merely with the intention of making one conclusion that we would try to prevent in 2010 obtaining an audit report for 2009 in the form we received for 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30592	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30593	Oh, I'd just like a little bit. Here, again, colleagues come in very often. We have, however, proposed certain measures, sanctions and responsibilities. I have already pointed out that the revision is not repressive but preventive. I asked the U.S. State Audit Office yesterday about their sanctions, in Great Britain, to ask. Believe me, they're lighter than these. And we're sending our backup reports to the D.A.'s office. I have information that the D.A.'s office has conducted five investigations, so it's all going to the D.A.'s office. And this is quite enough, so it's quite enough moral, public and this... responsibility. I think we've gone all the way,...in some countries they're gone, at this point that this is quite, quite acceptable. I don't understand, we can't now, Maltens... that we need to change everything who's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30594	Thank you. We have two replicas, right now. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30595	I first commended the work of this committee, and I don't think anything that they left out here on purpose or that they eventually didn't want to do anything. On the contrary, they have put forth a great deal of effort. Even after some discussions here, and in my opinion, they took too much responsibility or responsibility more than this commission should be doing. So we even took it on our backs, and I certainly give it to them. However, the prosecution will go, I agree, what is a criminal offense, and it is not disputed. However, little goes to the prosecution, because the prosecution is looking for evidence of this, evidence of those etc., etc. As long as the prosecution proves it, that is, until such an act occurs, we have the spending of 48 funds unintendedly, irrationally, and otherwise they are not, let me say, for a crime. I have proposed a proposal for measures, and what Council of Ministers will bring, whether I will discuss when he brings it, and I will say: "People, what is a crime, will be done by SIPA and the D.A. and ok, it is not a problem, but there is something that may not be a crime but it is a moral, political, human, etc. Work and compassion. No, it's not a crime if someone didn't prescribe how much they'd spend their phones, and he spent, by political assessment, on social assessment, every other grade, that's too much. In that sense, I went to the Council of Ministers to make a proposal for a measure. So the measures he'll take that would be concrete, that's what we'll see. If we adopt this conclusion and he takes action, maybe it won't be.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30596	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30597	Well, I'd just like to see the Honorable Chairman of the Commission. Look, the location of responsibility, be careful, we are in Article 8, or you suggested in Article 8, that it should be located on those covered by the State Service Act. I'm not sure you've located the responsibility or located the full responsibility at the right address. In fact, when I proposed a law on the Commission, it means, and it still went the way it did, they suggested that this question cannot be resolved by the State Service Act, only by the State Service Act, but also by the Council of Ministers and ministerial appointments, because in this way certain people are completely excluded from possible responsibility. Look, if someone, some minister, has twice in a row or three times in a row in some four-year term of qualification for his ministry, means there's an opinion with, I don't know, a reserve, as we already call it, then it's not logical that responsibility and a third time is located on a civil servant. So someone would have to, she'd have to be in part of the responsibility, those executive responsibilities being located on the minister himself. So, and here, I agree that the Commission's attempt was to locate responsibility, but I don't think it's fully located in the right place.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30598	Thank you. We have already discussed this several times and your law is in the Finance and Budget Committee and the proposal that you have seen and translated into law – we will discuss this further. And now we have a discussion and a replica, 13 minutes in total, honourable MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30599	The chairman, it'll be enough just for discussion, and this replica is just a preventive application, because I have to do more myself. I checked in and waited 30 minutes, a replica, that replica, that replica, and here I am now preventively. No, thank Bog. The order has finally come for this discussion. I don't think we understood each other very well this morning when I suggested that we approach these reports differently, and it went the way it went, and let's go the way it started. And my intention was, because I know that the problem with what Mr. Prodanović was talking about, and then what Mr. Okolić was talking about, so it was defended by the President of the Commission, who normally made a good report – so we have nothing to say to the Commission, that there is nothing left for us but to detail here in Parliament on concrete things. Look out, we have two options. First, to authorise the Office of Audit to file criminal charges, to report for a commercial offence or criminal charges, and to do so in law. Obviously, it's not a concept or a world trend, whether we're missing it, we see it all the time, we notice the problem. People find the problem, it comes here to Parliament, and then in Parliament it goes all in one bag and no one sees any of that bag what's inside, none of the woods see any trees. And then, so it has to... work out. I will, so we are in charge here, first of all, to define the concept. And then you pass by, let's say, a report and says this: 'As the procurement of packages for children employed in New Year's has no consent from the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, we feel that the same or appropriate decision of the BiH Council of Ministers is needed in the future.' That means someone bought packages of state money, we... that money. I don't want to speak on purpose which institution, because it's not that concept. If someone had bought the packages, they had no approval of the Council of Ministers, no proper decision, spent money, where you were – nowhere, what you were doing – nothing, what happened – bit the wolf's ass, finished the story and finished the thing, got the children's packets. Please nice, so this is what I'm talking about. We approve of the budget and we have a debate over every mark and we need to see where the Audit Office is in the overall system, what it is that he has replaced so far and what it is that it lacks. Previously, before the Audit Office, we had the Social Accounting Service, we had the Department of Payments, reports were filed, they were controlling the final accounts, applications were filed, there was some sort of responsibility. It's all in the car now, because the system is different now and let's be, but let's see if we've built institutions that can answer their job. Can we be satisfied that year after year we have what people do? The audit office is doing its job well. Here, our commission did its job well. And I've read you one thing now, there's still as much stuff here as you want that's not normal, that's not logical, that can't happen and that, if they happened, they have to be subject to sanctions, and they won't be sanctioned. They won't be sanctioned! Therefore, I think that we as Parliament should give an answer to this question: What should we do? And since it's not going, so since it's not going to get the Office of Auditing a real criminal report, making criminal charges, then we have to open up the matter here in Parliament and therefore consider the report by report, bring this director here or the minister, it doesn't matter who he is, the warden, to see what you did, and then deal with it or figure out a system that will bring these cases into sanctions. This isn't how it works. There's no sanctions here. And that's the point. 50 Therefore, I have been dealing with the Audit Office since it came into existence, so since 2000. As early as April 2000, when the budget was approved, I had the efforts to enable the institution to function normally. And I've been following that paper, and I've been to education with this Norwegian office. It's all beautifully imagined, but I don't think we have the right endings here. And the time has come to seriously consider now in BiH how to make this thing worse to the end, to have a proper conclusion. And that we have, so we have failures, they are seen but there is no responsibility, there is no criminal responsibility, there is no civil responsibility, there is no criminal responsibility, there is no liability for economic crime, and there is no disciplinary responsibility. In 10-11 years, no one's ever answered for anything. They were just, what was going on?), which is positive, things were improving, the revision was counterproductive. But I don't think it's enough for the whole system, I think some things have to be sanctioned. We must seriously think about this problem, so we in Parliament and people in the Office for the Audit and Council of Ministers of BiH – to see what we will do, and not just at BiH level, but at both BiH and both entities. We have two more audit offices. Besides this office at the state level, there are offices in both entities. Not to talk about public enterprises now. Watch out now, this right now, this isn't our problem, our country. The state doesn't have public enterprises, but entities have public enterprises. And there's an audit there, and there's the same principles. Even there, the review can't file criminal charges, it can't file criminal charges, there's no final accounts, no SDKs, no controls. What about it? So that's a serious problem. It is not the same when a full report is sent to the prosecutor and he says, "Here you are, so see if there is anything, so go away if you find anything, and for the offense, and for the trespassing and for the crime." It's like when you write a criminal report and you say, "That's the one who did it that day and that's what I'm asking you to process it." That's two different things. And we'll have to start dealing with it if we want to circle the system in this area. This is how we stopped somewhere around the finish line, but it's actually missing that most important part. And one more thing, as part of this discussion, I'll replicate, Momo, I won't, don't worry, I won't go 10 minutes; the financial audit is going its way, and that's good, and we've mostly put an accent on financial audit so far. I also know a little bit about this impact review. I think that in the coming period, however, we will have to take into account the degree of construction of BiH institutions, everything that follows their creation and development, more specifically address the issue of impact review in order to improve it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30600	Thank you. Simply these discussions, we can agree, that later on, our Finance and Budget Committee and the Office for the Audit and Council of Ministers, or that you should make concrete proposals to vote here. I don't see any other way. Here, we all have a good will to advance this and make our proposals. But we see that there are laws, we see that our commission has called on all institutions that have received a negative opinion and held a public hearing, it is not now time for Parliament to hear again publicly the same persons because the Commission has done so. Or, if you think that's okay, suggest we vote on it. So, we do, obviously we need professional help from the side to bring it to an end, because obviously we all want to bring it to an end. 51 Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30601	No, it's just a brief clarification. He says no, here we are now offering in this conclusion means this disciplinary responsibility precisely for these reasons... and I support all these discussions. A member of the Bureau or a minister, there a driving park chief does not write travel orders, and a two- or three-year audit report is therefore an opinion with a reserve. Now, if that minister or that member of the presidency, of course he's going to punish this state official who's been through this right now, he can't do anything right now, right? You know these around ministers are now civil servants. It's just Article 8 that regulates everything. But again, I repeat, it's a great effect. We know that there was a mass phenomenon of life insurance, that's what the auditors established, we called it in, and it was massively interrupted. There was tuition, they paid postgraduately, the auditors found it, we asked it, interrupted. So the effect was achieved after all. He can't be put in jail, he took, broken practice, so the company did benefit because that practice was interrupted, which is not in accordance with the rules. And there's a responsibility, so this article 8, believe anyone can be sanctioned. And I support all these discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30602	Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30603	Short, chairing you, so let me answer. I have no ambition to solve this problem. My ambition is to point out the problem and try to solve it all. We come up with a model in a year or we answer the questions I asked, I'll be happy. And that's why I said, so all of us here in Parliament, 42 of us, the Council of Ministers completely, and the Office of Audit, we all have to answer these questions. Let's see if we still have, all in good faith, so there's no bad intentions here, and that's why I didn't offer conclusions, because I can't, I can't put something on the vote right now when I'm not able to do it. I see something's wrong and I see something should be done, because we've come to that level, we've burned to the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30604	Thank you. I didn't think it was a replica. I was looking for a way out of this. If the way out is for a stenogram from this session to be given to this commission and audit and the Council of Ministers, and that's some conclusion, nothing else. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30605	Thank you. 52 We have dragged away with time, and here I am, since I am a member of the Commission, I think we should say something, because this is a very important topic. Personally, I don't think we have much reason to be dissatisfied. Because countries that have a much longer democratic tradition, even longer revisions, have the same problems with spending public money, even bigger than we have here. And I think we've done a good job. Where I have a dilemma: whether, whether the criteria are objective or whether they are equal to the criteria of the score, or from the review, or, say, in 2007, when we had five positive reports and in 2009, when we had 29. So if the audit was treated the same way both in one and the other, both in the other control, or in the audit of the budget users, then we did a good result. If we look at the results or causes that lead to negative assessments, then it is mainly the Public Procurement Act, i.e. infringing its internal control and poor budget planning. I'm worried about the next thing. If we look at these budget users who have a positive report and those who have a negative and how much money is spent there for those who have a positive and those who have a negative, then we see that those who have a negative report are far more spent and there are some institutions on that list that, in my opinion, are not supposed to be found there in society. Here, not to mention the Ministry of Defence, but the High Court and Prosecutor's Council has a negative report, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, the Presidency, the Directorate for Direct Taxation, the Ministry of Finance, the Ombudsman for Human Rights, etc. I don't think it's right, no matter how far they've broken or failed to break the budget framework or how they've spent their resources, but if they're here, I don't think that's right. And the next thing I want to say, I think the revision, the audit task, is not to look for a thief, is to point out in terms of improving responsibility and, where drastic violations are, then have some other institutions that need to catch thieves. We have 59 budget users here, there's one budget user that's not contained in this report. It's very difficult to open the question now whether or not it should be, but here's the question. In fact, OSA is not being treated, or audit is not considering it, as far as I know. Its role is specific in society, and of course it should be observed in a specific way, but it does not mean that it can be excluded. In my opinion, she can't be excluded from the audit. And that's why I think we should figure out a way, a variant of how the audit will control the spending of money in the OSA. I'm finishing the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30606	Thank you. Replica, the second deputy chairman, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30607	So my replica is to all those who have claimed that world practice versus ours is much lighter. So in the world, when an audit report is made public with these qualifications, these people immediately resign. So it's practice in the world. But the problem with us is that people are fat and don't care when they go out on this list of qualifications 53, etc. So they don't consider themselves responsible at all, they consider it a normal condition. And so, in the world when the qualification report that we're talking about, so with reserves, etc., people who are responsible for that institution resign. And I would point to one practice, so we got a report from the Finance Commission and the budget that I hope you agreed to on the Commission, and today we heard all the members of this committee practically about the same things we had in this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30608	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30609	Dear Chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests from NGOs, of course colleagues and colleagues, we get reports and I would like to have a stenogram of what I said about the audit reports in 2007, but I will remember, I will remember 95% of what I said. And when I hear a negative opinion, we can talk today about the most positive opinions, and here you're caught on the subject of what it says, what the Commission's report. For 60 minutes again, he will say, "This messenger pitted so much, grabbed so much, walked unwarrantedly there, spent it here." I wish we had a report, can't, of course, review it to determine how damaged BiH's budget is in all these negative opinions. Well, then if I had that number, then I'd wonder who stole that money, so if I knew who stole the money to see if that thief was still in office. But we put it all in the same bag or bag, positive opinion, negative opinion with a spare, and all in one bag. Who are these positives, who are these negatives, and who are these guys with the reserve? Five sessions that we have, these are all non-productive sessions on this same subject. What conclusion to make today, I don't know what the competent institutions will make to deal with the people's money-makers, when they too overpriced those reports, spent money. So, I really don't know what the point of all this is, there's a huge book here, so when we add this report to our commission that's well made, so that's like they're calling someone for a hearing, so these guys here say, don't spend any more, hey, you did the same thing last year, let's fix it up a little bit. I'd like them to be questioned by a competent institution that has the authority to say, hey, man, where you get the right to spend money on the state and you're going to answer for this today, because there's a reasonable doubt that you've committed, at least misused your position, here's to saying you didn't commit a crime. But that's what you can call it. But the simplest thing here is, let them criticise me in Parliament, let the auditors bring me one way or another, and I'll stay here again, and I'll spend it again because nobody can do anything to me, there's no sanctions. What Mr. Belkić says, he will not resign, Mr. Belkić, what, he just looks at another function, if in his already spent money and disappeared, he goes where there is little more. So it's a system of simple spillage from hollow to empty. So I really don't see why we're discussing this. Every year the same thing, we draw conclusions and, like us, it's a comfort, we've fixed what's ten of them are serious about these executives, so they don't spend as much as they've spent. Well, of course they're gonna get serious, so in two years, they've taken 54 so much that they don't need it anymore. Which they would take third, because they think third year someone would remember, and some would vote for sanctions to get their heads, even the first to bite the one without responsibility, and they would come under the law. There is no law, unfortunately, when it comes to us, and fortunately for them, fortunately for them. And I really don't see the point, and I'm not ashamed of myself, I'm going to say for myself, which I'm wasting my time attending this part of the agenda, because again tomorrow on the front page, but we're not going to get out, (all the journalists left as soon as Mr Ahmetović was elected minister, I watched there everyone went, because this doesn't interest them and so don't be afraid), tomorrow nobody's going to go out in the paper that we're thieves, and I don't know what this is all about with these negative opinions. I'd like to have a list of people here, a list, that director of the agency took the money unauthorized, spent on this... item, abused the position; and that we have some opportunity to relieve him tomorrow, and before we replace him, we just give permission to the institutions to shut him down, to bear sanctions, rather than like this. So that I wouldn't use a permanent term, because of a distinguished colleague I greatly appreciate, Doc, I've always said what this is, and now I won't, and now I'm going to say something else: We've spent as much time as we've spent and I'm still gonna take it to the end, just looking for this to go by, to be effective, because I first answered today. So I'm going to beat up the empty straw, and eventually the conclusion that it binds, to what, if there are any responsible, there's no, how much money it's spent, and we're going to go back into the budget and give them everything they've been looking for. Look, they're looking, so I can ask for as much as they want. So if they have any reason to ask so much, to buy in a recession car, even these auditors of ours, here they are. And they bought three cars, said we planned it. Now, as if I wouldn't plan for the plane to buy Parliament now, I can plan, but there's no money, no give,... there Mr. Vrankić and those sitting there, Kasumović, they don't give. Even we, what we're doing today, are discussing something that is absolutely useless. And I say our happiness, only those who follow us online will laugh a little bit, but let them laugh, the press is gone, we took this to their knowledge, and we admit to them, because we admitted that they were taking money, spending, misusing, and we can't do anything to them. And what I'm going to do now, get down on my shoulders, sit down from where I'm standing up, my ears can't tickle because I'm more full of all the information I can get, but there's nothing I can do about it, because I'm helpless. And I admire you who first listen to me and all my predecessors and what you will conclude after this. Do you want me to sing "Tired Grandma Lan" for her day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30610	Please!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30611	This is not a joke, this is the biggest truth in this House, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30612	Please!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30613	It's not up to you, it's not inconclusive, the seriousness is that you gave me how much money they took from the taxpayers, the seriousness of being able to say today: this power will no longer allow 55 to be allowed in the money budget to the thieves. By name and by name, we have to say who did it, so don't let us fool ourselves if we fool the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30614	I am just warning you and all together that we are dealing with respect and respect for what MPs do here in Parliament, who think we are doing very important things, and to people who have come on behalf of the institutions that are listed here, and those who have done this job, and that this is how we treat our work that we are doing here in Parliament. You can express your opinion, but you have no right to disrespect anyone's work here and our presence. Replications. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30615	I have a very short replica, rather, one call from the SNSD MP, the ruling party's MP in this House, to stop this kind of discussion, because if he continues to talk about the fraud of power in the future, the fraud of power, etc., the entire opposition in this House will be completely out of work.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30616	Replica, honourable MP Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30617	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it was Lazar before, so that's why I didn't take care, I didn't, I didn't even go. Well, here, I've listened closely to the arguments of my colleagues in previous discussions, the way they're thinking, but here, I want to say once again that the Finance and Budget Committee has been doing business together with the Audit Office. And it's a replica to Mr. Jovičić. The way he discusses, in fact he demeans both the work of the review and the work of this commission, but what is certain proves to me that this summary opinion, at least, has not read these conclusions. Because if he'd read it, he wouldn't have discussed it like this. Slavko, here we are through the conclusions that the Commission has delivered to Parliament for adoption we want to assign the Council of Ministers, here in this conclusion 8 to undertake certain activities of disciplinary responsibility, changing the Law on State Service. There, and at least if you had read it, you would have seen that now you were talking about this pay phone here, and you were actually drawing on yourself, or on us MPs, or on people who are handling state institutions this attention to the public, and then making certain insinuations about how and how it works here. I am responsible, so working on this committee for many years, along with the Office for Auditing the Business Analysis of State Institutions – there is progress. However, when you enter into a conversation with people representing certain institutions, you recognize a number of objective problems they face. To address these problems, the Collection Report also lists these 56 problems and how they should be addressed. Normally, there are certain subjective weaknesses of people who operate, as usual in life. In my opinion, the Audit Office should do what it has done so far, it cannot be put into the function of someone who is going to pursue someone, but Parliament needs to conclude the word, should, in the end, come right away, and propose if it is necessary and the replacement of certain executives, but we can only do so if we discuss and make certain suggestions, and not in this way how you have effectively devalued all this work so far. Thank you, and I apologize, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30618	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30619	Well, dear fellow Sokolović, believe it or not, I've read all this. Because I never lay down before 3:00, 3:30, check in the neighborhood, and I don't sit around the computer or, I don't know, play games, but I read this, read it, because I knew it would come to this. And the other thing, if it's not possible today, take a stenogram and see if I underestimated, as you say, the Audit Office. I say this report is extraordinary, the Commission's report commended, but what I ask next is, what will this bring us? If every time, in 2007, I said the same thing in 2008 and here in 2009, I say the same thing, what were like sanctions for those who spend money and are in that part of the negative reports. What's up with them? That's what I'm asking. And I'm not here saying the thief is Janko, Marko, Suljo, Mujo, Petar, uh, that one, Jozo. I said what sanctions are for those people. Are we going to do the same things in a circle and never solve anything? That's what I'm alluding, and I'm talking here, not academically, because this is not the Academy of Science and Art, but in a folk language that everyone understands me and doesn't make a joke out of this Parliament, I am a member of this Parliament, I greatly appreciate all my colleagues, but I insist, when I, I'll give you an example, I'll press charges against BHT1 for everything they've done, for a wonderful miracle I get an answer from the D.A.'s office: 'Your case is in the prior, you'll get a very quick answer'. What year is it today? What did I get? Who's to blame there? I'm not getting into it if they had the right to bring back the director that someone had replaced before, but that's their thing, I'm not getting involved there, people, where I have no right. But I'm telling you what Parliament takes on itself, what responsibility, and there's nothing practical it can do. I'm asking you, can we do anything after all we've heard, five days here? If there's anyone here to counter-argumented prove to me that we can say they won't be sitting in this chair any more, they'll go in front of the door there and listen to the speaker what the people are saying. Here, kick me out. I mean, that would be a way, if someone were really spending money, and there's nothing to answer for, which is a sanction. The penalty is that I'm complaining to you today, you to me. I am not making a joke out of Parliament, this is the highest institution I give the most, but I repeat, I am asking you again: What are sanctions for people who will spend the same money and in this budget, spend as they have spent, when Mr Džaferović said since 2000, is that right, since 2007, I have seen what they have spent, 2007, 2008, and what will continue to change? Will something be saved? Will that chain of thieving be broken? He won't. And what have we done? That's what I'm all about. And what I may speak in the language of the people, even a little poetic, 57 ye know, that ye know the saying, that men who sing evil may not think. I don't mean evil to anyone, I didn't say who it was here,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30620	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30621	But the fact is that we have reports, but we can't boast about how we fixed the situation, so instead of 29, we have 10 positive reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30622	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30623	So, let me finish, please don't tell me what I'm not saying, and this isn't a populist pre-election story, I'm talking about sanctions for those who spend people's money. Now that's a question and give me an answer and I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30624	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30625	Mr. Chairman, my replica refers to Reverend Denis Bećirović. I would like to say that he misunderstood the interpretation of Reverend Slavko Jovičić. These days... it is 25 years old since the premiere performance of the Audience, so the performance of the Audience, and since it is 25 years old, distinguished Professor Boro Stjepanović has included in the new team, the acting team, acting professor Slavuj Jovičić. That's why he sang this at the end and please don't mind. So that doesn't apply to these audit reports. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30626	Dear Ambassador Salko Sokolović is giving up on the replica. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Nothing. Slavko Jovičić, the last replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30627	Bog forbid it's the last one, it's the last one on this point. I've got more replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30628	Wait a minute, please. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30629	I forgot my friend, Mr. Bećirović, a friend of mine. You know what, Mr. Bećirović, it's lucky that you're not in power, all the negative reports here would be, you know, that's luck. But now, we have a slightly better position, and even this parliamentary majority, we can boast of something. And if you had stayed, it was all a disaster here, because you've been here for a while now, and I've been following, and in that time, although I wasn't an MP, it was chaos. Only then was no one controlling you, so no one controlled you. But wait a minute, there will be audit reports outside this parliament, where your stronger affairs are there than all of our budget consumers, so we'll see what's going to come out and then you'll say, well, I'd Slavuj to join in to be in a position, because it's not very nice in the opposition to be like a fole we've been removed and there are more grabbed by his, so now as attacks this position. Slow down, wait a minute, there'll be everything, you know, journalists don't forget if we forget. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] That's right, of course. As for Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30631	Take care of it at the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30632	No, he's a surgeon, and he needs it after some hard-on operations, so he found it here in Parliament, because man has no hearing for a song, so he's not auditioning, and then I welcome this. I'd invite him to participate with me, but he doesn't know the man so we don't lose on the program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30633	We'll figure it out at the club. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30634	I'll be in this replica even shorter. Normally, I disagree with some SNSD people's views, but here I now have to realize that I am very glad that two of the most prominent SNSD representatives in the state parliament are as well understood as colleagues Prodanović and Jovičić understand each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30635	Thank you. 59 Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović, 13 minutes total. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30636	Thank you. I'll be shorter anyway, Chairman. I'm particularly glad to be a replicator of my colleague Jovičić, since I know I no longer have the right to a replica. First, my colleague Jovičić, while you are already working on the auditory reports of some time, which you mentioned earlier, I would ask you to consult an expert if you do not understand. It was not by any chance that the audit reports from that time were worse than they were, for example. The reports we're considering right now. Secondly, you'll get a chance, when you're deep, to run into an audit report that never happened again, and it was halfway across and it talked about only 60% of the funds that were planned in the budget. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] They were not three institutions, because it was addressed to a time that was addressed to little and political. Therefore, this is an correction, the chairman, of the wrong allegation. This is a replica of my colleagues and to express my regret, although my colleague cannot replicate. If necessary, we'll take a break and we'll bring back those audit reports from that time, and we can do so at one of the next sessions. However, I will not, of course, discuss in this way how it has been in previous several discussions, but I will focus on these reports, the formulations in this report, with the best intention of, of course, the Office and, in particular, the Commission, which put a great deal of effort, energy to make reports, to qualify them with these qualifications standing here, the Commission to consider this individually, hearings, etc., and then here through discussions, debates, even when they are not of professional nature, there is still a lack of something. Whether the instruments with which this parliament is at its disposal, which he has spoken, I want to understand that this is what my colleague Jovičić was talking about, or the inability of this Parliament to change anything or, I don't know, something third. And here, let me just remind you a little bit of something that we mentioned in the last session of Parliament, in the context of another debate, when it comes to the work of the Audit Office. First, what is the role of this House, or what are we doing? Let me remind you that we are adopting the budget, we are adopting the budget, this Parliament is adopting the budget. The audit office, which we choose, is doing, among other things, auditing the spending control of funds and this parliament, which adopts the budget, submits a report. We're not powerless. The audit office is in office, among other things, of the work of this parliament. It does not mean that the Office of Audit is not independent, but do not tie it to the Council of Ministers, because the Council of Ministers is the Office for Auditing an address as well as his address and Office for Veterinary Affairs, or the Directorate for European Integration, or something else. So what we're asking of the Audit Office, which delivers it to us according to some standards, we're the ones who have the power. In what way is power? I give you, my colleague, to Jovičić, to remind you: we appoint the Council of Ministers. Is there ever anyone, there's both direct and command responsibility, if there are 60 misses, whether you'd think of it now, for example. I just want to talk about the weaknesses of our system, and if anyone would have thought of asking for the resignation of a minister for what it says here in the audit, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, for example. On the command line, not directly, I'd like to make an exception if he has direct responsibilities. As long as some parliament doesn't do it, I'm not sure, we may be able to improve this entire system, and I'm not sure we can change that radically. Because there's no system of responsibility here at all. I would like to mention that this House has last considered the Office's review report in this session. Perhaps someone from this call to Parliament in the future of Parliament will consider the report of the Audit Office. The audit office will be in this session. So let's help the future Parliament and this audit office. Maybe everybody doesn't know the mechanisms, the standards by which the Office of Audit works, but it's nothing, maybe something that looks like a brake isn't the barrier to make something better, or change it. Let's just say something doesn't make sense to me, how we read, for example. qualifications of this kind. By accident, I turned these reports around by a random sample method, saying: 'Rises based on wages, expenditure on mobile phones, representation services and travel expenses were not carried out in accordance with regulations and proper internal rules'. Does this mean a violation of the rules? Is this a direct violation of the rules? This parliament also adopts laws, someone adopts laws under the law. Will we shut up, for example? that the laws have been broken, or someone will keep quiet that sublegal acts have been violated? Or, for example, He says, 'The demands and obligations that come from earlier years are not recorded on the basis of a just file that proves the basis of such records.' What does this mean? Or how can this be qualified? ... If there is a future call of Parliament or parliamentarians, if they are not involved in the audit and do not know the language of the audit, then let's let the Audit Office do some work to help the future Parliament and to identify some things and build a system of responsibility. Or should I be aware of that, for example? when we read the following: 'The procurement procedures have not been carried out in certain cases in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act.' Can we recognize here that the Public Procurement Act, adopted by this House, has been violated? So let's talk openly about what our role is in all of this, that is, how we build, with the help of the Office that we appoint, which is auditing, we are building this position of the institution which, among other things, monitors the spending of public funds, that is, the budget adopted by this Parliament. You see, the qualification says: 'Seen weaknesses in spending budgets and failures and shortcomings in the implementation of procedures', and then stands 'except for possible effects which on financial reports may have items listed in this previous one; financial reports are shown truthfully and objectively' etc. Which, which, I think, means possible effects on financial reports if there are failures, shortcomings, perceived weaknesses, spending failures, etc., which are the result of violations of the provisions of the law, sublegal acts, etc.? I mean, I'm sorry that in this way and already quite a bit of fatigue, and with the kind of Parliament day that we've had today, we haven't devoted ourselves a little bit more to this, or we've devoted ourselves in one way that might not have the way out for the future calls of Parliament and will again lose three years, four, discussing some reports of the Office for Audit, and that no shift will be made. So I would suggest that the Office for Auditing that the next parliamentarians, who in some way is an employer, (very ugly may sound but I don't know how else to define it), but given this fact that you are appointed by this Parliament to audit, among other things, the control of budget spending, the budget adopted by this Parliament, I don't mean Parliament in this House, but give a little 61 maybe help what these qualifications mean, because these are violations of the law, behind this is someone's responsibility that needs to be addressed and this Parliament, or some parliament needs to take some moves. Until such a move is made, we will only have such reports with such qualifications. When the first move is taken from it, lessons are learned, so anyone who is responsible will make sure that things like this don't happen to him. I apologize for perhaps spoiling the idyll of some way of discussing the reports of the Audit Office, but here there is a mutual interest in Parliament too, and I am sure the Office of Audit, that you are also positioning yourself in the right place in the eyes and heads of people who make some decisions, and also to facilitate the work of the Audit Office and this Parliamentary when discussing the reports of the Office for Audit. You see, the Commission and the Office that did a good job are only intermediaries between this Parliament and the one who spent money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30638	Thank you. I have a request from the Deputy Finance Minister. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, I don't. I don't have any more. Do you have an audit? Here you go, Chief Auditor, Mr. Šego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30640	So, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all together. Here, as every year, the Office of Audit, the truth earlier this year thanks to the adopted procedures by this Parliamentary Assembly, submitted this report on the audit carried out for that year. In a procedural sense, this year is slightly better than the following years, as reports are being discussed in the year they were executed. It was once a year when our reports caught up with the next reports, so it wasn't productive at all. So in this sense, I am truly pleased that we have managed to prepare in a relatively short time on the Commission where the Office was also present in all phases in a certain way for this debate to be well prepared. For this year, as Mr. Chairman of the Commission, Mr. Bahtić said, we have made 60 total reports, of which 28 reports have a positive opinion, 31 reports have an opinion with a qualification. One report, this is what Mr Huskić mentioned, was the subject of a debate on the Joint Committee of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, which is the 62 OSA Report which, according to our standards, regulations and the Law on Audit, cannot be made public, so it cannot be discussed in this House. This means that I should work to answer Mr Huskić's question already, that it should work to ensure that these two laws, the Law on the Protection of Secret Information and the Law on OSA, in practice, find a way to build into that law an element which can be incorporated into both auditors and the Audit Office to perform, i.e. there are no restrictions. For this reason, then, we had to give an abstention. Here all your discussions were really on the back of one, as I would say, plebiscite support to the audit office itself, its efforts to reveal how and how public funds are spent. What stems from all these discussions is the fact that this final step is missing, so there is no starting this issue of responsibility that you have all really talked about in order to launch it and to bring it in, so to speak, to some degree of justice all those who in an untransparent and confusing way have and spend public funds. As you know, there are more of these forms of responsibility and I think that this House, this Parliament, should raise this issue of public responsibility, the Council of Ministers should launch the institutions to which these reports relate, the issue of disciplinary responsibility, that a question of moral responsibility, political responsibility should be raised. And those institutions we have installed, which they need and can find possible criminal responsibility in our reports, I think they're independent enough, professional enough that we should leave it to them. In this regard, as we know so far, there has been no clearly expressed efforts, but the question to be answered is this Parliamentary Assembly and I do not think it is good to transfer this ball of responsibility. Therefore, reports shall be submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly in order to initiate the institutions of the system on a specific coordinated activity to overcome these findings and recommendations that have been made very clear in these reports. The issue of amending the law is also mentioned here, and all with a view to improving this system of responsibilities. However, the way you tried to come... I want to answer to Mr. Novaković this time, I suppose, and I believe that he had a very good intention of installing himself in the Law on the revision of this provision, that it is practically clear by automation what is the responsibility that needs to be created. However, it would be in conflict with standards, and the law on the revision that you adopted in Parliament would, in practice, be sucked in a certain way, and international standards and they cannot be changed in that way. So there are other instruments, there's a Labour Act, there's a Law on State Service, there's a Law on Audit, there's a Council of Ministers Act, there's internal rules, there's rules on disciplinary responsibility, so there's a whole bunch of laws that can be the basis, very good basis for starting this responsibility issue. It is certain that the issue of these criteria that have been discussed here, we certainly, in the review every year, year by year, so in a certain way we increase our demands, improve financial discipline, that is evident, but the requirements are from standards that often change and innovate so that there are always some higher requirements. However, what is particularly important to note, here we need to move to a clear definition of objectives and plans, we need to move on to programme budgeting in order to make more effective efficiency audits, which we have already started, we already have two audits that have been completed. And I believe that in the coming period we will speed up these processes and I believe that this will make an even greater contribution. What's very important to mention, I think it's kind of easy to go over plans and work programmes, they kind of get fast and bring and adopt. And it should practically be these three 63 reports, so the Work Programme, the Work Report and the Review Report, should be observed and treated together in a certain way and possibly, and that would, in a certain way, be some internal efficiency. In this way, there would certainly be more quality shifts. We've made a real effort for this year to make a good point, and we've also made this book short-term report where it's practically all described. Of course it can do more and better, but here are all these suggestions that have been made we will try to install in future work and fix it in a certain way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30641	Thank you. Here, after all these discussions, we will certainly discuss both the conclusions that this commission has and the conclusions that it has, here I have just tried to form a conclusion that this Parliament will also call on the House of Peoples to, together with the Office of Audit and with the Council of Ministers, create an interresor working group that will introduce more orderly and financial control in terms of what the audit has recommended, what our commission has done, not transferring responsibility to any institution, putting here in Parliament the focus of what we need to do. Of course, we'll come to that conclusion when the time comes to vote, about what we discussed today. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to point 5. Ad. 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of BiH, following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure The BiH Council of Ministers delivered Law 18. 11. In 2009, with a request to be considered by a shortened procedure. Today we are discussing a request for a brief procedure. I received the data, checked the signs and allegations that some of the MPs had not received, these materials were sent by Parliament and in postal traffic BiH were delivered to addresses, so I believe that the procedure was respected and that these legal projects came. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. I'm closing the debate. I'm going to point 6. 64 Ad. Six. Commission's request for external trade and customs duties to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the indirect taxation system in BiH, following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30644	Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask the Chairman of the Commission, given that I have received this law today... I am not... namely, I do not fully understand what the intention is, what the proposaler's intention is. Since I'm assuming that this is about when new proposals come out, it means that 60 days are given to the Board of Direct Taxation, I'm talking about legal proposals, to make a statement on these proposals, then we have a real problem with our rules of procedure. Namely, between the... deadlines laid down in our Rules of Procedure and these 60 days is now being created, creating one problem and I do not think it is possible in this way to define the obligations of the Administration for indirect taxation, or it is possible, but in that case it would have to make amendments to the Rules of Procedure which provide the period of waiting, means, or does not consider the beginning of the procedure the moment when this law, which can be proposed and the MPs, say, the decision of the College to manage. So here we have a real problem and I don't know if the Commission has seen it this way... that I'm looking at it now. If that is, if we don't have this second part, then there's no point in having a debate, that's what I'm talking about, the law is the opposite, so the deadlines are contrary to the terms of the defined Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30645	Thank you. I just want to remind the MPs that we are only discussing this request for a brief procedure 126. It can happen that he doesn't make sense, the law as a law, but it's not the subject of this debate right now. The topic of this debate is a request for 126, a shortened procedure. We can come to a position that this law does not comply with the Rules of Procedure or that it violates the Rules of Procedure, but then we will discuss the subject of this law. Dear Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30646	Thank you, Chairman. 65 esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I will give this explanation. Namely, this is about... a small amendment to the Law on the indirect taxation system, i.e. Article 25, adding a 5th position to be given to the Management Board of indirect taxation within 60 days to respond to the request submitted. Because Article 25 defines that for each introduction of indirect taxes, as well as any amendments to the legal rules in indirect taxation, an application must be submitted to the Management Board of the indirect taxation. We had one case that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Customs submitted seven months ago a request to the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority for approval to amend and supplement the Customs Tariff Act, those which this Parliament had set as a condition when we were considering that sugar famous, so it took seven months to get an answer from the Management Board of the Indirect Taxation Authority. In order to avoid this, the position of the Administrative Board of the Direct Taxation shall be added here, which undertakes to give an answer within two months, so that, if that response does not arrive from two months, there is no objection to the proposal given for approval, so that I think that there will be no problems under the Rules of Procedure, only the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Office will be forced to make this far more effective than it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30647	I'm thanking you. And once again, I warn the MPs that we are discussing this request whether it is necessary for this to go into the procedure without talking about the subject of the law itself. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30648	Dear Chairman, this will also be an answer to Mr. Novaković. So we in this economic sphere and in the responsibility of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs currently have no law waiting for this Parliament to be decided, and it has always been like something we are holding back. But we have an accelerated activity of the Foreign Trade Ministry which has indeed made huge efforts in the past few months, and we have already passed several laws in this area. But, as Mr. Suljkanović said, we had not only this example of the famous, I am not going to say further what, but about the famous other things, where we were waiting for the consent of the Directorate for indirect taxation for several months. And then, of course, the Centre of Civil Initiatives, which I support, came out in public that the laws are not passed in Parliament, we had the efficiency of 10%, 12%, and nobody said where that main brake was. So, we understand the authority of the indirect taxation board, but in that law there is no time to which they are obliged to respond to our demands, and they have constantly gone towards them, because we have respected both the Rules of Procedure and the procedure. So that's why it's been happening to us, not just seven months, but for some law and 10 months, we haven't had any opinion. That is why we have proposed this law to go according to this procedure, because there are still a few laws waiting for us that are in preparation; so I have a notice and an announcement and a whole commission from the Secretary-General that we will be able to pass a few more laws by the end of the year. At next session 66, there is immediately a tariff law, which will also demand an opinion again, and we will leave it for next year, which should not wait. So, we wanted to.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30649	Wait a minute, wait a minute, we're talking procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30650	that the procedure is now shortened and that we are bound by a deadline by the competent authority, which is the Directorate for indirect taxation to respond to us within that time limit, and that is why we thought about the law that awaits, and we may bring them to one of the next sessions, that is possibly the next or the future, that this is adopted by a reduced procedure. I'm just talking about the procedure so we don't wait for the next quarter or the midterm, just because there's no time limit until which the indirect taxation administration has to declare on our request. That's why we went and it's just a procedure to speed up this economic sector, not to wait for that barrier that I think really was a barrier. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30651	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30652	I'm only going to talk about the procedure, although Mr. Jovičić and some have begun to explain the reasons for the adoption. I don't ask for a reason, and it's not at all a questionable reason, but I have a disputed procedure. After last session where we adopted a reduction in the deadline for the points that go into the regular procedure, I don't see the sense that this is going according to a shortened procedure at all. On the contrary, we can get to the point that we may not have time to make any amendments, because maybe we should consult about it, so I suggest that this doesn't work at all, there's no need to go into a shortened procedure, that's five days. We won't get anything to speed up putting on the agenda, because in the meantime we're just having the five-day session, etc. My suggestion is not to go in the short procedure, but to go in the regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30653	I would like to thank Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30654	Well, if it's going to improve there's no problem, let it go into regular procedure, but I'm telling you where the brakes are going to form to get to this pace. That's why it was only an intensities, not for us to do something without allowing the amendment phase for colleagues who were indeed 67 would be denied to make amendments. No problem at all, let's go to the regular procedure and solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30655	Are you saying that on your behalf or on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30656	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30657	Please put it in writing on behalf of the Commission, because then we can not vote for 126, but rather go into regular procedure, but you have to give me that request from the Commission. If there are no more reports, we move to point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law on tobacco in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-89/09, of 30. Nine. 2009 (second reading) At the 63rd session of the House, held on 4. 11. In 2009, this law was adopted in the first reading. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has submitted Report 17. 11. In 2009, with six amendments adopted that become an integral part of this law. In the plenary phase of the amendment, MPs Slavko Jovičić (five amendments) and Velimir Jukić (two amendments). I'm opening a debate on this law in the second reading, so the debate is about amendments, not principles. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30659	Mr. President, I have made two amendments, and in my speech on the law itself and its principles and the need for adoption, I have said everything positively, I have commended the authors of this law, because the law has made it so that it has a head and tail, and it has a somewhat shorter yet solid explanation, and I have already announced that I will make certain amendments. I thought and it was the idea to make more amendments, however, that any increase in amendments reduces the chance of the law being passed, then in agreement with my colleagues, I decided that we should still submit a minimum number of amendments which in principle do not violate the law, but in one part complement it and make it more precise, i.e. they are very specific. You've got the amendment on you, I'll explain it very briefly. Therefore, Chapter V of the Registers and of the Evidence. The text proposes to include the word'supervisory, or canton' behind 'entity', because even under current laws, but also 68 of the Rural Development Act, it is logical to find such a solution in this law. It's just clarification and precision, nothing important changes. Because even now, in the applicable laws, countys in their space keep registers, including these types. So nothing's new, nothing's new, just what's now is the actual state of the law sanctioned. The same thing is in the next chapter, that's Chapter VI. CONFORMITY CONTROL
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30660	, where the word 'entity' is also placed behind the words 'the county, or canton'. So, not to repeat the text, the competent bodies, etc. Here, these are, these are the contents of these amendments. I was, of course, also on the committee led by Mr. Slavko Jovičić and I heard the explanation and the promoter, and their position was negative. I must say that their arguments were, at least for me, very inconclusive, but the Commission seems to have decided, however, because of their attitude, as said in the report, therefore rejected the amendments. And I call on fellow MPs and MPs to adopt these amendments, because in one part we will make the law more precise and clear, and I think that, among other things, is the purpose and purpose of each law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30661	Thank you. Discussion, Reverend Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30662	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I decided to renew the amendments and defend them today in the plenary phase for the simple reason that they are in line with both the Rules of Procedure and the current BiH Constitution and the entity constitutions. I know you have these amendments ahead of you, but here we go in a row. Therefore, amandman I. In Article 29, the words 'legal person' are changed in the words 'business society'. Why? Well, the argument is quite clear: according to the Company Act, manufacturing companies are already registered as companies, so that already exists. That is why it is necessary to give meaning to this amendment to be called companies, not legal persons. In the same Article 29, but in the position (2), this position should be amended and it should read: ‘(2) The Competent Ministry shall adopt a regulation on minimum technical and technological and personnel conditions which must be met by companies’, if this previous amendment, which I have spoken of, is adopted, on the amendment, instead of legal persons, of the position (1) of this Member. And here's why. Each competent authority, and it is known that the competent ministry should adopt its sublegal act on minimum technical and technological and personnel conditions. Therefore, this all results from the adoption of this law and the eventual acceptance of this Amendment I, which improves both the text and essentially determines the competences, and the termologically determines who companies are instead of legal entities. This Regulation shall amandman into force on In Article 31(2), the words 'Bosnia and Herzegovina' are deleted behind the words 'cigarettes on the market'. And here's why. In that view, only the term market is sufficient, as it is clear which market is concerned and which market is concerned. Therefore, the view (2) would read: ‘(2) Cigarettes on the market are classified according to the quality of tobacco mixtures and their organoleptic properties... smoking, technical production and equipment of cigarettes, and according to the markings of these cigarettes.’ Why? In the preamble of this law, BiH is already being mentioned and there is no need to stress it now in each member, as it is known that the law is being passed at BiH level. So that would be too high. Therefore, behind the word 'cigarettes on the market', the words 'Bosnia and Herzegovina' should be deleted, and I have already said in an explanation of why. Therefore, in the same Article 31, but in attitude (4), after the word 'technical production', the words 'and the equipment' stand, and should be deleted. Why? This word is too high because it is quite enough to write that cigarettes are sorted according to technical design. The manufacturer will do it himself. That's why you don't have to write the equipment at all. How they'll equip them, that's their business. HAS ADOPTED THIS amandmanIII. In Article 32 (1) and (2), instead of, as predicted by the law, 50% is changed by 60%. So it's about the participation of domestic varieties. And the reason is: since it is the participation of domestic raw materials, therefore tobacco from our domestic producers, it would be desirable for the protection of domestic production to be a higher percentage than it was done in all laws in the surrounding countries. We also stimulate domestic production, do not violate the World Trade Organisation Agreement because we are not members of them, we do not break agreements with the EU because we are not members of them, we are not in breach of the CEFTA famous agreement. If anyone showed up, he would also express in bilateral contacts with us the problem, as Croatia solved when their production was threatened, as they thought, and that was not the case. So, very simply, to stimulate domestic producers, because the percentage of 50% increase by 10% to 60% gives more producers the opportunity to show up. All estimates suggest that in the production of that culture, tobacco could find employment or already find about 10,000 people. Amendment IV. Article 35(1) is amended and reads as follows: ‘(1) The quality of tobacco products imported into BiH is determined prior to customs, examined in a laboratory for analysis of tobacco and tobacco processing that has been accredited by the competent institute.’ Reason: the consignment to be imported shall be declared prior to customs duty to the competent inspector in the customs office, which sample shall refer to the laboratory examination and the whole consignment shall be customsed only after the results of the laboratory analysis have been obtained. So, on the border when cigarettes are imported, taking samples can be determined whether they are subject to standards and whether they meet all those prescribed regularities around the percentage of tar, I don't know, nicotine, this and that, and immediately at the border it could be resolved, and not: the goods have entered, someone has imported, what you bought, you've spent, no more returning to the border or the ability to control. So I think this is very correct. 70 Then, in the same article, attitude (2) after the word 'roying' is deleted the words 'putting on the market'. Why? Not the same quality checks prior to customs and quality checks are not placed on the market. I just said a little while ago, so the border is being controlled so we don't get a lot of noise, and when it's put on the market, there's no control on this guy. In the same article in the position (3), after the word 'examinations will be done', the words 'laboratory with the approval of the ministry' are deleted, and the words 'authorised laboratories' are added, instead of deleted words. We have a lab at BiH level, but it cannot reach all border crossings, but it can empower other laboratories that will meet certain criteria and have a certificate that are authorized to exercise control and interrogation in these laboratories. So, not just one lab, I don't believe it's possible, physically, or technically, so if you want to do it, I don't think it's possible. The explanation is, I said already, but here, there's a likelihood that there are more laboratories that can conduct interrogations, not just one with the approval of the competent ministry. Amendment V. In Article 36 (1), the words'ministration in co-operation with entity ministries and Brcko District shall be deleted and the words 'competent Ministry shall keep registers' shall be added. In the same attitude in point b), the words 'Bosnia and Herzegovina' are also deleted, I said for which reasons, because it is understood that in the preamble of the whole law it is mentioned and there is no need to repeat it later on through each member. The explanation is quite simple. The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations cannot directly keep registers, but it should be done by the relevant entity ministries, because this area is in the jurisdiction of the entity ministries, so if they would accept Mr Jukić's amendment: in the jurisdiction and cantonal main ministries for agriculture, whose area it should be. Article 36(4) should also change and read as follows: ‘(4) The competent ministry will prescribe the content of the form and the manner in which the registers are kept (1) of this Article.’ The explanation is simple again. Since it has already been amended to act as the competent ministry of registers, therefore competent entity or cantonal, if we decide on this amendment, then this would mean that the competent ministry should also prescribe the content of the form and the way in which the register is kept. These are lower sublegal acts arising from the adoption of this law if these amendments were accepted. And of course, in the end, amandman vi. Article 38. The concept of surveillance isn't fully arranged. It is necessary to enter 'delivery and download of tobacco, import of raw tobacco, control of the processing of tobacco and services, the right to destroy harmful and unquality tobacco', so that Article 38 should indicate the full role of inspection throughout the process. Who's going to say what's unquality, what's quality, if they don't want the inspection to do it. And of course, Article 38 (1) should change and it should, of course, be my suggestion that: ‘(1) Control over the implementation of the provisions of this law and the regulations adopted on 71 basis on the production and processing of raw tobacco in the list shall be carried out by the competent ministries in co-operation with inspection services.’ There's no need for clarification. If agriculture and this entire sector are in the jurisdiction of entity ministries, then they are, of course, obliged to carry out all this and to carry out this surveillance with their inspection services. In Article 38, this is the last, in the position (2), following the word'spiritual products', the words 'the competent authorities of the administration in charge of trade' are deleted, and the words 'competent republics' are added (it was republican, not only because they refer to RS, and entities), 'entity inspections and inspections of local self-government.' So, the authorities in that area, whose jurisdiction is and whose jurisdiction is this particular sector of agriculture, and then this law. And in Article 38(3), the words ‘water manufacturers’ are deleted after the words ‘water tobacco products’.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30663	Just to warn you, you've come a long way, but I'll count that time as a single replica, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30664	You take whatever you want, I won't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30665	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30666	The words 'the competent authorities of BiH relevant for the area of agriculture' are deleted and the words 'competent ministries' are added. It stretches all the time, you know who's in charge. To commit a competent entity or cantonal parish ministry whose jurisdiction this is, because this is not the responsibility of the BiH-level ministry, as Mr Belkić once told me that I was against that agriculture ministry, it is not true, but we do not have such jurisdiction now. This is the constitutional structure and this is how it is now. In order to meet all these criteria and not break my constitution, I think these amendments are acceptable to me, and they are not at all major fundamental changes so that this cannot be accepted. Of course, I'm expressing my opinion, and it's up to you to define yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30667	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, we decided on the way we're going to work this morning at the Enlarged College. And we said by 6:00 a.m. it's done, and then it goes on 2nd, Wednesday. 72 I would like us to complete this item of the agenda and then put the proposal to the vote, because if a session is interrupted for more than 24 hours, Parliament must declare it. For this reason, I would ask you to keep an eye on the length of the discussion and try to bring this point to an end. If anyone has any other suggestions on how we're going to work and continue the session, please deliver so that we can agree on that. Here, dear MP, second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30668	I'm sorry, I won't be long, just two sentences. We're really masters of spending time and we're really masters of undiscovered priorities. So, Criminal Law, we didn't even get to it, the condition for visa liberalisation, we don't even have first reading, monitoring is 2.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30669	Dear MP Azra Hadžiahmetović has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30670	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, perhaps one suggestion that in explaining the amendments there is no need to read... we all got amendments here and an explanation of the amendments. So we've spent 10 minutes, though, without any need. Secondly, I am replicating the observation, i.e. the finding of my colleague, Jovičić, that the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is not responsible for the regulation of this matter. She's very competent. If it were not for the jurisdiction, surely Minister Zirojević and Chairman Špirić would not have adopted the law and referred to the parliamentary procedure. Secondly, your amendments are totally unacceptable, with the arguments you have given, for the Party for BiH for the reason that by adopting these amendments, this law in fact only spoke of the authority of some other bodies rather than state institutions. Then there's the question at all why, by that, your message is that we're going to need state law in the first place. I would also like to mention: and counterpart Jukić, who has proposed that the cantonal ministries be included in two amendments, also, with the position of enforceability of this law, are not acceptable. If we were to adopt amendments by colleagues Jovičić and Jukić colleagues, this law would be predicated to failure in any implementation. The reason why there is no need for your amendments is right here in Article 3 of this law, or the bill, which says that because of the economic and fiscal importance of tobacco production, etc. At the recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Trade in co-operation with the competent entity ministries, well, if your explanation of the amendment states that the cantonal agriculture ministry would provide something better, it is a matter of the entity ministry, e.g. agriculture, to arrange relations with cantonal ministries. So I guess that's why we know what the Federation is, like the Canton Federation, right? 73 So the proposal that came from the Council of Ministers with the amendments adopted in the Commission is acceptable to the BiH Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30671	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30672	Also, I've exhausted the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30673	Thank you. Discussion, Honourable MP Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30674	First, I'll do it for a while. I must say, I support my colleague Jovićić in order to spend his 10 minutes and I don't see what the problem is. So, man is the way he thinks he tried to convince us of the correctness of his amendments. But that's not why I volunteered to support Mr. Jovičić, but to ask the applicant, and I don't know if he's here, the same thing I put on the Commission when we were working, which is, it's about the part that's talking about tobacco traffic. I think it's a serious question and it might be a good idea if the motionary by next session to somehow answer this question. In fact, people who deal with this claim that these provisions now on tobacco transport will have a problem with exporters. Namely, the exporters, none of the exporters can provide production of, I don't know, 500-600 tonnes of tobacco, how much about a year in exports are placed. A number of tobacco producers, said here by those producers to take over tobacco, but one number of tobacco producers are in the VAT system and invoice the tobacco processor. Be careful, this phase, meaning from it to the processor is also traffic, since people are invoiced, but it's not the traffic of processed tobacco, but they are like manufacturers that invoice unprocessed tobacco. According to this now they claim that it's not possible, now that shop is no longer possible. I'd like to say whether it is or not. In other words, they argue they will be prevented from exporting tobacco. Look, that's a serious question for those of you who deal with this. So, it's not my serious question, it's those who are dealing with this, and it would be really good to propose; I, when asked on the Commission, did not answer, but waved his head. So I didn't get a concrete answer. It would be a shame if, for some two or three words, we came into a situation to disable tobacco exports, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30675	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović, discussion. Here you go. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30676	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I am a little surprised by this renewal of the amendments of the President of the Commission, especially because it has renewed all amendments, and I must stress that we have adopted one part of its amendments. In particular, this is about increasing domestic tobacco participation from 50% to 60%, so it can be seen in this record. However, I suppose our president, so proud, has renewed those amendments that we have adopted on the Commission. I must admit that here with these amendments, one review: they have been submitted in writing but it seems to me in a little writing form, and therefore, among other things, they were unacceptable to the promoter, because everything that was acceptable to the promoter, in an effort to see the light of day, to be adopted, we have adopted. So, I say, here would be the best option if our President of the Commission gave up these amendments, but it is his right to renew these amendments, with me looking back here, very briefly, at one fact, and this is the part where the participation of domestic tobacco is mentioned at 60%. In fact, we draw attention to the fact that this may become a problem tomorrow when we become a member of the WTO, tomorrow when we are in another slightly more advanced phase of the EU approach, because this is the problem Croatia had. She had a big problem with the European Commission and had to replace the term 'domestic tobacco' by simply counting only those tobaccos, not mentioning that they were domestic. Here is now a proposal for a proposing, to think about how to solve this problem, how to bridge what tomorrow will surely become a problem because of the term, or the term 'domestic tobacco'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30677	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Slavko Jovičić. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30678	The Honorable Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30679	There's another one, he used one, there's another one.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30680	I gave one of them, that's what happened.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30681	Here you go. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30682	So this is exactly the 50% to 60% mention. The Commission has adopted this amendment, but I am asking Parliament whether the whole law will come into question and whether we are going to violate other international agreements if we adopt it, and which has become an integral part of the law, which has also been adopted by the ministry on that committee, but it is not this commission that makes the law, but I just wanted to get to know Parliament what it is for us to decide and whether we can decide to be in our favor. That was the case, not because I didn't know what was adopted on the Commission. Secondly, I renewed the amendments as an MP, not as the chairman of the Commission, regardless of what the result of all the amendments was three - one - one. So, three "for", one "against", one "abstained", and even about Mr. Jukić's amendment which had left a little earlier, or Mr. Novaković, or, I don't know, it doesn't matter now, I insisted that in this report it stands and that it is known. So, what's the intensity? The intensity was to pass this law, not to be challenged in Parliament, but I warn you, not what I want, I insist that you accept this, see if they change anything, but rather they strengthen the jurisdiction of institutions that are in accordance with the Constitution. Well, I guess it's clear to everyone that agriculture is in the jurisdiction of the entity, so I won't stress that it's within the jurisdiction of the municipality. So, the thing was not to stop the law, but to get a pass and to be voted, because in the first reading many colleagues said that this was one of the best laws in the last few years, which would solve many problems. And that was exactly the goal, because you saw it there – why it really has to stand in the law of how some will be equipped, so I guess that's it. There's that jargon: a thing of luxury, luxurious equipment, whether to invest more in packaging or in the quality of cigarettes!? It's a matter of manufacturers and subconclusive acts to regulate it. That was the goal, not because I'm investing in a huge number of amendments to stop this law. It didn't even occur to me. On the contrary, I even advocate that this be adopted as soon as possible. But I mean, look at the amendments again, and I asked you in the beginning if I should read the amendments and explain it again, you could have said we have it in front of you, don't read it, this is over and bye, I wouldn't have spent 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30683	Every MP has the right to discuss for 10 minutes. In this discussion, if he does not insult anyone, he can talk about the subject in the way he chooses, and it will not be challenged in this House. At the same time, it has been verified that the amendments adopted in the Commission have not been submitted, but neither have the amendments adopted on the Commission in the sense that these amendments are being refuted, so that they are all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30684	Well, here's the chairman, to remind my colleague Jovičić that agriculture is not exclusive to entity jurisdiction. ... In the Ministry of Foreign Trade, we also have a sector that deals, to the extent that it is the competence of foreign trade and economic relations. We also have competent state institutions dealing with this, e.g. Plant protection office, etc. Secondly, we know very well, and whoever carefully read this law regulates both the matter of exports and imports, so foreign trade. Therefore, here, the foreign trade ministry's jurisdiction has not been disputed at all and is not questionable at all. And thirdly, this law is fully in line with the Constitution, so there are no counter-constitutional formulations in this law. Even the many formulations you've given in your amendments are unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-24-0.u30685	Thank you. I'm closing the agenda. I'm putting on a proposal from the College to terminate the session now and continue on Wednesday at 10.00, December 2nd. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 21 votes, "against" three, "abstained", one, enough entity majority and I realize that we have adopted this proposal. I wish all the citizens of Muslim religion a happy Bajram. I'll see you on Wednesday, December 2nd, 10:00 p.m. The seat was interrupted at 6:30. 77 My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, continue the work of the 64th session of the House of Representatives. Not to repeat the introduction in which we have invited all our regular guests, according to the information service session there are currently 23 MPs present. The absence was justified by lawmakers: Jozo Križanović, Husein Nanić, Rifat Dolić, Lazar Prodanović, Velimir Jukić, Sadik Bahtić. Some of the MPs such as Sead Jamakosmanović and Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija announced a delay. I find that we have a quorum at the session for full-time work and decision-making. I would like to remind you that the first part of the session has ended with the realization of the 7th point of the agenda. We're going to the 8th point, that's Ad.8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-6-1/09, of 21. 8. 2009 (second reading)
