ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3628	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, respected media representatives, I welcome you all and open the 25th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 14 delegates present at the session, five from Bosniak, four from the Croatian and five from the Serb people. Mr Božo Rajić justified his absence since he was justifiably prevented from attending today's session. For the 25th session, I suggest the next 1. Declaration by the House of People on the submission of the irrevocable resignation of Dr Mladen Ivanić as chairman of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. The appointment of the chairman of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the Serb people; 3. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 4. The adoption of the minutes from the 24th session of the House of Peoples; 5. Proposal for a Law on the Protection and Wellbeing of Animals (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 6. Proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Public Television System of BiH (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 9. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Development of the Information Society of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 10. Proposal for an Air Force Law of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 11. Proposal for a law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 2 12. Declaration on the Proposed Law on juvenile perpetrators of criminal offences and criminal protection of children and minors (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 13. Proposal for a law on free legal aid (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 14. Proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters – (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 18. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 19. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 20. The BiH presidency's decision to place professional military personnel in formation posts in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces for confirmation; 21. Decision of the BiH Presidency on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces in the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) mission in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan – to confirm; 22. Decision of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs on amendments to the Regulation on the international activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly – to confirm; 23. Report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the Construction of the Immunity Law; 24. Report on activities on the project ‘Autoput to Corridor Vc’ and Plan of the following activities; 25. The appointment of the chairperson, deputy and members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of the BiH Police Structure (Proposed Ad hoc Joint Commission for the Implementation of the Procedure of the Designation of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals); 26. Giving consent to the ratification of amendments to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH, which represents the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and the Government of the Republic of Austria, which represents the Federal Finance Minister, on financial co-operation; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – Project Corridor Vc; 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Switzerland on the Facilitation of Visas, 3 29. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Switzerland on the readmission of persons staying without authorisation; 30. Giving consent to ratification of the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control; 31. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Community on the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities; 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the Protection of Secret Information between the Government of the Slovak Republic and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the government of Montenegro on cultural co-operation; 34. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro on the return and acceptance of a person whose entry or stay is illegal and the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of BiH and the Ministry of Interior and the Public Administration of Montenegro on the implementation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro on the return and acceptance of a person whose entry or stay is illegal. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples, which is not declared, but I ask if anyone is answering? Mrs. Majkić and Mr. Šaraba after that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3630	So, I propose to include as a new item of the agenda in today's session the 'An initiative to launch an investigation and determine responsibility for illegal work in BiH institutions'. As a matter of fact, I'd like to point out the following. So, due to the illegal submission of the report on the crime against Prime Minister Milorad Dodik and 14 people from the RS, I have decided to submit this initiative to launch an investigation and determine responsibility for illegal work in BiH institutions. It is evident that the process against the president of the RS government and others has been unlawfully done and that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, as the country's highest legislative body, has the obligation and responsibility to prevent and sanction any anti-constitutional behaviour, all those involved. The BiH and SIPA prosecutors have also been significantly involved in the creation of representatives of the Serbian people and the RS, which is why we have the full right to seek an energetic respect for independence, impartiality and a strict hierarchical structure, in accordance with the law. However, the behaviour of prosecutor Engel and the assistant director of the SIPA, their illegal action, speaks of a political process aimed at discrediting the prime minister of the RS and leaders of the largest political party, for which those who have done so must be held accountable. Accordingly and in accordance with this initiative, I propose to the House of Peoples to raise the issue of establishing the illegality of work in these institutions, and individually, starting with Council of 4 ministers who have their tasks to determine in a specific case what it is, to launch an investigation and determine the responsibility of the persons involved and to propose measures never to repeat such cases again. That, on the basis of the official notes, the statements taken, in a specific case, establish the names of the person and the national structure of all those who have taken statements, i.e. notes, to carry out a verification of the allegations from the media "Dnevni Avaz" on Mirsad Barjaktarević, Deputy Dragan Lukač, which could shed light on the overall developments in relation to the mentioned event. Also, when it comes to SIPA, that the House of Nations asks the SIPA director to answer several questions as soon as possible: was he familiar with the previous investigation of the SIPA, in particular the way in which he handed over the report to the prosecutor against the RS government and others? If he wasn't aware, who authorized the secret investigation of the SIPA, what did he do toward the responsible persons in the SIPA? Also, the People's House asks the chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office to inform the House as soon as possible of the precise answers to the following questions: was the prosecution aware, the prosecutor was aware of the previous conduct of the investigation, especially the way this report was received against the president of the RS government and others, when and how did he find out about this report submitted to the prosecution? If he wasn't familiar, who approved a secret investigation into the BiH Prosecutor's Office, what did he do according to the responsible persons in the BiH Prosecutor's Office? Finally, the House of People asks the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to examine, within 30 days, the reference of all foreign prosecutors and judges in the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice, to carry out a review of their work in the judiciary of the country they come from, and to report these findings to the Parliamentary Assembly, to finally know who our judges and prosecutors are sitting in BiH institutions. To initiate and investigate the responsibility of Prosecutors Drew Engel and Hari Furlan, in particular, and to order the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to request information from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia on the similarity of Prosecutor Hari Furlan to perform the office of prosecutor in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. And at the end of the suggestion,... the proposal is to order the House of Peoples to the Joint Commission on Defence and Security to, in accordance with its powers, take the necessary measures to remove illegality in the work of the SIPA and to inform both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. I am deeply convinced that no one sitting here from the House of Peoples delegates can be against what is an examination of the legality of the work of BiH institutions. We know in public what stories are being told, we know how unreliable the system we live in, we know that we do not have an answer to the security situation in BiH. We don't have the key answers. And therefore, as a man and as a delegate, I am deeply convinced that there are no those who could support that the illegal work of the institutions continues in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3631	Thank you very much. Here, you heard the suggestion, is there a debate? Mrs. Čolo. 5 It is that this new hall, but you are too far from the chairman. More and more of a joke, and we're moving on from each other, but good. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3632	Chairman, we got this initiative this morning on our tables and I thought Mrs. Majkić would just ask that this initiative be put on the agenda. However, she entered the measure of this initiative and read us everything that is written and what we wanted to leave for discussion we must now express. Here I am, in front of our club, thinking that this initiative prejudges certain things that we don't have enough information for. Here it is required to launch an investigation and determine responsibility for illegal work in BiH institutions. So here it is prejudged that there has been illegal work by the BiH Agency for Investigation and Protection, that the prosecutor, who handled this case, has been illegally working for what, here, we do not have enough information. We have a defense and security commission that's under Article 48. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations shall be responsible for the exercise of certain control and control of the work of the institutions for the implementation of the law. The Agency for Investigation and Protection called SIPA, which investigates organised crime and the most serious crimes prescribed by the BiH Criminal Law, is subject to certain control by our Commission for Defence and Security, which is the Joint Commission of both homes. And I have as much information as I do: today the Council of Ministers is discussing a report prepared by the BiH Ministry of Security, which concerns the circumstances of the case. In order to be able to discuss this initiative carefully today, I have no objection that we are discussing an initiative, but which will not be called this way, because this initiative prejudges illegal work, and we do not know whether this work is illegal, I suggest that today we do not put this on the agenda, that the Defence and Security Commission, as the Joint Commission of both homes, should consider the report of the BiH Ministry of Security and a possible report that will come up with today's Council meeting on this information, and that, after that, they submit information to the House, so that, on the basis of this information, we can take due account of this information and that we can propose appropriate conclusions on the basis of this information. I'd say a little more. Mrs. Majkić was talking about secret investigations. I don't know how much our public knows, because in 2003 we implemented a reform of criminal law. Do you know that investigations, our criminal investigations, are secret? And in most European countries, investigations are secret, as through secret investigations, it allows the prosecutor to obtain valid evidence that he will be able to press charges, and all evidence is determined in the main investigation. So, by applying the principles of directness, orality and the public, and only the person for whom the main search, with its presence, can be condemned; and also, we may be a rare country in Europe that has not had a trial in absentia since 2003; therefore, the presence of the defendant on the main search is mandatory; therefore, only in the main search of direct evidence can there be a conviction against a particular person. The principle of classified investigations is the principle that leads to the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings and it is supported by our criminal legislation. He's been existing for six years. Our journalists are very quick to learn about certain data from a criminal report, which I think is not good and here, I, I support the initiative that we are discussing but when we have 6 relevant information from competent institutions such as the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers that is discussing it today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3633	I will dati my word to Mrs. Majkić, but I would ask the participants really only to limit themselves to establishing the agenda, not to discuss it because then, if we put it on the agenda, the debate would be pointless. So I'm just asking that it be, and I'd like to ask the clubs if we don't go big. There are, of course, needs to be explained, but not too detailed, to know if we will, we will have to make a statement about the initiative, so to approach it, to hear any more arguments, but not to enter the content.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3634	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3635	Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3636	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, distinguished guests, I will try to appreciate as much as I can the presidency's suggestion. But allow me, Chairman, just one brief comment, means regarding Mrs. Alma Čolo's discussion. I respect her legal experience and the profession she deals with, so I really appreciate it, because this is not the first time and the first example that Mrs Alma has just been on the professional side and explained certain things from that area and I really appreciate and appreciate it, but I also have an opinion about this initiative that Mrs Dušanka Majkić has submitted. Prejudice some things, I agree, so I don't mind this attitude and Mrs. Alma Čolo's opinion, but there's one other thing here. The existence of doubt, you see, in the legality, the legality of the work of these important institutions that are mentioned, that I do not mention them further, here, in one third of the delegates or in one part of the delegates, means here's the Serbian people, is that enough to launch the investigation at this stage we're talking about. I personally think it is. Because of everything that's happened, I don't think it should be at all controversial and whether it's done when it comes to a committee in charge or if the House of Peoples finds a solution and that this investigation is going to take place... because to whom these institutions will answer if they don't answer for their legality, etc., if they don't answer to this House or Parliament, that means the BiH Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3637	Are there any more interested? Mrs. Majkić, then Mr. Tihić. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3638	I really couldn't believe that someone could be against and show and manifest again, so after all this has happened and at our request to make an attempt to get these institutions in line, that someone would vote against. If this event had happened in the time of the former Yugoslavia, this would have been interpreted as a coup. And in such a constitution, the power to say that everything is good and fine and that we should only transfer it to the burden of the weak backs of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, which was visited by SIPA ten days ago and determined that everything was okay? Don't tell me it's a job... it's creating and pushing things under the carpet. So, please, let's find so much reason to talk about this sort of thing clearly, out loud. Keeping quiet about things won't help solve problems, on the contrary. So, please make this a part of the agenda and everyone on their side says what they have. I really expect that no one will... be against this in a legitimate way to get to the real state that was in the wake of these events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3639	Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3640	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's a good idea for us to start a House session with questions like this. It is not good to transfer topics from some current political situation here to the House of Peoples, which is a legislative body. And I understand all of this and these reactions in a certain way that come from the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats and the RS, but we need to bring down tensions here in the House of Peoples. You know, we don't open up any big debates here, because anyway, why do we have commissions? Why there are committees that can handle these issues, so, if it is estimated on the commission, that it is delivered here to this House of Peoples, because we need to start from all citizens being equal before the law, and Sulejman Tihić and Milorad Dodik and Mladen Ivanić and Dragan Čović and the position and opposition and all others, you know. And we don't need any items, no case to rise above other citizens, especially not evenly with the whole people. In particular, this initiative, when read, has gone so far as to be audited by the entire judicial system and the High Judicial Council and the Prosecutor's Office and, I don't know, the appointment and qualification of these people, etc. I mean... if such an initiative were to adopt and today discuss it, it's really unserious and it would be too superficial. And if we were to launch an investigation, every investigation would have to be the basis for suspicion. We don't have enough elements to say that there are grounds for doubt that someone was working illegally. That's what the board can tell us. I would really ask, here are the delegates at the Serbian People's Club, to accept this proposal and to refer this to the commission and to continue working with this work that is on the agenda. Because what if we were the same case when Mr Ivanić was, no one thought to set it up, I don't know you, there were other politicians who were reported and accused. That's it. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3641	I'm sorry, Mr. Zno first, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3642	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I just thought I'd call to cut this discussion short and this story. We opened the actual debate before the motion was adopted. The proposal was simple. Although it's simply not formulated, I think that's the problem. The proposal was to put the floor item on the agenda of today's session, I don't know the work title, I couldn't get out of context until the end of the day, but some requirement to examine the legality of the work or procedure of the police agency. I think we need to be clear about this, and we'll have time to explain our views, explain what's for, which is against, and show ourselves by voting on the conclusions, if we're going to make them. We have gone far and wide, and we have gone from what is not, but also from what is in our jurisdiction. If only one thing, I think that the House and without the Commission can be shown about certain things, it is no distraction, although the commission as a competent commission, as the competent working body of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of both homes, because it is common, will certainly do its job. I, the chairman, suggest that you put this item on the agenda, and not on the debate, but on adoption or refusal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3643	I, as you have seen, have asked to be discussed, but the debate is gone, I can't and I have no intention of stopping the delegates.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3644	That's unfortunately the lack of our rules of procedure. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3645	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3646	That would be, what Mr. Zrno says, it would be really normal if we didn't have to convince or explain things that are undeniable, and then that would really be the case. But we're trying to explain here why this initiative in the first place. Mr. Tihić says let's not transfer current political topics to the House of Peoples. I must remind you, Mr. Tihić, that I am a delegate who comes from the Serbian people and that it obliges me to lead interests in the representatives of the Serbian people, and here directly refers to the attempt to lead two key men both in the Prosecutor's Office and in the SIPA and to lead the process by parallel systems, past the law. So, I'm talking about illegalities, and that's why I'm asking you to have a view that a third of the delegates in the House of Peoples feel the threat of the Serb people in BiH. And because of this threat, we ask that a decision be made to examine the authorities and see if we are one of the three constituent nations who 9 should have all the rights as the other two, or whether we are all, as the greatest people, should have rights like these other two. And I didn't expect any moment for you, at least you, in front of the Bosniak People's Delegates Club, to argue. No Niko here will impose anything, no one will make a mistake. We will seek only, as Parliament, as the House of Peoples, to examine the situation which it is. We're not talking about people and the process that should go... as the law says, but we're talking about procedures that have passed. And so, I expect you to tell me what the arguments are that so, we don't behave when it comes to procedures, and they're not respected. And that's why this initiative is. And what will you lose if this initiative doesn't pass? What kind of sign are you going to show us, or what kind of sign are you going to show, what is the message to the RS in that? Should we sit here and work and expect who's next to come to mind to disabling us, crossing us or bypass us? I'm asking you... to take care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3647	Thank you very much. Before I continue the debate, I have one question, with a desire to try to bring the matter to an end. Is there room, since the content of this initiative, since we have already opened the debate, is a practical search for information. This means something that the authorities should do and inform Parliament. Is there room for Mrs. Majkić to change the title of the Initiative and then could we, let's just say, I don't know, some title that says "An initiative to launch an investigation into a possible one," could we reach an agreement so I could take a little break to try and see if we can get along? Is there that space? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3650	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, guests, this is not just about the title of the Initiative, but about the content of the initiative. And I think this is a very relevant and acceptable proposal, provided that Mrs. Majkić withdraws the initiative in this form.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3651	Please, don't open the debate now, I've just made a positive move for the club bosses to sit down, that was my proposal for a conclusion, and try to come up with a harmonised text. If it doesn't, I'll put the initiative to a vote and that's it. But to make this an attempt to come up with a harmonised text after all. Mr. Neimarlija, I especially apologize to you for coming in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3652	No, no, because I wanted to respect this earlier suggestion of yours and be economical in terms. So, I believe it is entirely appropriate for Mrs. Majkić to direct the initiative and that we treat it as a proposal for the agenda. But this proposal has already, given this debate that we have already had, to this extent characterized the future course of our conversation at all, so that a statement has already been prejudged in some way. If we are to discuss the Initiative, given the existing content, then we are already forced to set ourselves up and vote on the existing content. That's why I'm appealing, respecting the possibility, of course we're reading about the information. Because if I..., please the chairman, if the Initiative condemns the people who do the prosecution's work, I can't agree to vote for it, no matter how it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3653	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3654	I just want to say, show me one sentence in which someone's sentence is spoken. He is asked to examine it within that time limit, to say if he was familiar, to say how it was done. Find me a sentence in which it stands... for some verdict passed. Find me that line that says in the Initiative. Please don't talk to me by heart. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3655	I would ask Dom to come forward with a proposal for my conclusion. My proposal for a conclusion was clear: that three club presidents sit down and try to come up with a harmonised text that would be acceptable. You have half an hour, you won't have any more. If that doesn't work, I'll put the initiative to the vote, and then it goes, it doesn't go, and it's okay. I said, my political assessment is that it would be good to get some harmonised text acceptable to everyone, because I don't see that the problem is that we're looking for information about this, that and the next. If three club chiefs agree, fine. If it stays in its positions, we go to the vote, no more debates, and we include or do not participate in the agenda. Branko, did you have a different suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3656	That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3657	That's it. I suggest then... so I put my conclusion to the vote now. Who's agreed to take a break and try to make club bosses agree on a common text, about the text so they can see that we're going to the agenda. Thank you very much. A half-hour break. In half an hour, we start, you don't have any more time, or you get along or you don't. [[PAUZA]] We're missing another delegate, and I want that delegate to come, because he was an active participant in the talks. But here, I hope it's quick. Well, I suggest; here, I think this statement to the press will be over soon, so let's get on with it. As far as I got the information, the club chiefs disagreed, which then means that I only have to ask Mrs. Majkić if she stays on her proposal to set the agenda. He's proposing that we not have a debate, but that we plead now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3659	So, I was really prepared for all the compromises that would allow the Initiative to survive, and to make a concession to the Bosniak club, that the part that might particularly irritate them in the name, in this first opening part, to stay only in the conclusions, but obviously that was not enough and obviously the concept of the Initiative itself is problematic and so I don't think there's any point in taking further discussion anymore. Please put the initiative to the vote. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3660	Thank you very much. There's also Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3661	I'm sorry, I'm not irritated here. I just don't know anything about this matter. The only paper I've got that's about what's been going on, that's this one right there. And I can't vote for it just for that reason, not to be irritated or irritated. I am for whoever commits some kind of violation there to be punished. But people, I'm not informed, I can't plead here in a special sense. Well, just so you know why.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3662	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3663	Mr. Adem, you must learn once that ignorance is never an excuse. What you don't know doesn't justify you. So, get ready for the matter that's on the agenda at the House sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3664	Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3665	Wait, please. This, first of all, is not on the agenda and second of all, what I understood earlier, how you didn't, I'm not as smart as you, so I can't do it, I need more time here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3666	Thank you very much. I suggest we stop. If there are no more interested, and I can see that there are no more, I'm asking you to come forward with the proposal. If I understand, the suggestion is that there should be a point, so be point 5, and the rest of the points move. Because of this new voting system, because it's not electronic, I now have to go to the first question of who's "yes", not, please, to make it clear, but who's "yes", so who's "no" and who's "sustained", so we'll go in that order. You know we had a system downstairs, just please plead. Now that there's no electronics in this room, we're going to take this old system. So, please first, who's "for" to include the Initiative to launch an investigation as point 5, and now the second title, I didn't get to write it all down, to lift up the chart. Thank you. 13 Who Is “against ”? Who is “abstained ”? I find that the vote was five "for", five "against", four "maintained". There is no majority and this proposal has not been accepted. Since there were no other proposals for amending and supplementing the agenda, we are returning to the agenda that has been adopted. I'm sorry, Mr. Šaraba had it, I forgot it, too, a proposal to supplement the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3667	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So my objection is against today's session. And the reason why I refer this objection to the Kolegijum is because there is an extremely significant legal project under here only two floors below this building. It's "The Law on Lawyerry" which is on the defense committee, that is... The Constitutional Commission has caused a lot of controversy. The Commission has decided and sent this legislative project to a public debate. The public hearing is today. I personally think that because of the complexity of the legal text, because of the extremely significant problems it regulates, because of the transfer of competences from the Republic to the level of BiH, that it should have been possible for us MPs, or delegates who were invited to participate in this public debate and to be present at a session that is currently under way. So, I ask the Kolegijum to take care of some of the other obligations that we have in the future, so that we can reach those obligations that are significant for the agenda, and they concern the legislative projects that we are going to discuss here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3668	Thank you very much. Accordingly, we have already agreed to set terms for four months in advance. You've won four months in advance for the sessions. And I ask both you and the others and the commission to organise these other activities in accordance with these terms beyond the House of Peoples. Thank you very much. Since there were no proposals to supplement the agenda, we took note of this observation. We move to, practically, the 1st point of the agenda, the agreed agenda, which is: Ad. 1. Declaration by the House of People on the submission of the irrevocable resignation of Mladen Ivanić as chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly As you know, I, as chairman, have resigned without impeachment as chairman of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The reasons for the resignation, in short, 14 are not related to working in this home and relations with delegates, but are related to the fact that there has been a break-up of the coalition between the PDP and SNSD. I thought it was perfectly natural for me to resign in these conditions and give space for someone else in the SNSD order to probably be elected to this place. I beg you to plead with me on that resignation. Is anyone answering for a word? Since no one is answering for a word, I ask the present delegates to declare the irrevocable resignation of Mladen Ivanić as the chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Who Is For? Thank you. ‘Non’? "Remained"? Thank you. I find that... Mr. Tihić is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3670	Just for a little while, given that, at the request of Mr Ivanić today, we have reached a Decision on discharge, I would like to thank Mr Ivanic, on behalf of him and on behalf of our club, for his cooperation with Mr Ivanić, for a good constructive work in this past period, and while he acted as chairman and vice-president. I hope that, as a delegate to the House of Nations, they will also make a contribution to successful work and finding solutions, solving problems from the jurisdiction of this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3671	Thank you very much. Mr Filipović asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3672	That's a nice hello, everybody. So I also need to say a few words relative to this act. We've now voted, accepted an irrevocable resignation. It's not really being discussed. We didn't even do that. Mr Ivanić also said the reasons for his resignation. This happened, after a little over two years of behaviour of this term of office, and I can only express my great satisfaction in working with Mr Ivanić, and I want to believe that after a few moments we will have a new president from the Club of Serbs and that we will also have one method of mutual respect, mutual respect, respect for certain specificities, come up with compromise solutions that we have come up with in this composition of the College. I would like to thank Mr Ivanic for his correct cooperation. He remains with us in the House of Peoples and I believe he will continue to contribute to the constructive work of this home. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3673	Thank you very much. I find the House with 13 votes "for", without "against" and one "maintained"...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3674	We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad. 3. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions The answers to the delegates' questions came from delegates: Alma Čolo, asked at the 23rd session of the House of Peoples; Hilmo Neimarlija, asked at the 24th session of the House of Peoples and Rudo Vidović, asked questions at the 24th session of the House of Peoples. Please advise the delegates whether they are satisfied with the answers received. Who's answering for a word? Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3676	I, as you recall, asked whether the finance and vault ministry is doing anything to equalise BiH institutions' employees who receive different compensation during maternity leave, and some do not receive that compensation at all. I got an answer that I could be happy with. However, I cannot be satisfied with the system that exists in BiH, and now it seems to me that this gap is still deepening, because we have a situation where we now have employees coming from RS territory and who do not bear any cost of pay tax. These costs are borne by the employer, while Federation employees pay their own salary tax. It's all the result of this division of jurisdiction between entities and what the state can't or we won't regulate it at the state level. I would like to suggest that the finance and vault ministry at BiH level once again consider the possibility of bringing employees in BiH institutions in an equal position, and on the basis of salaries and on the basis of any other income they receive from the employment relationship.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3677	Excuse me, is that in the form of a new question and if it is, please deliver it...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3678	I will deliver it in the form of a new question but which relates to this previously asked question. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3679	Thank you very much. Who's next? Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3680	Thank you, Madam President. I am pleased with the response delivered by the Communications Regulatory Agency, but by the state of use of the frequency spectrum in BiH, I am absolutely not and of course I will be asking new questions that will follow at the next National House sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3681	Thank you very much. Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3682	My question about the disenfranchisement of Fate Orlović was addressed to six addresses and I received an answer from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which lets me know that they are not in charge, so I can only say that I have received their answer and that I expect answers from those who are probably more competent than them to answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3683	Thank you very much. That would end the comments on the questions asked. Any new delegate questions? Please, we're going in a row now. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3684	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So my question will be very brief. 'When will the parliamentary procedure bring about the law on denationalisation, given the very great importance of this legal project for BiH?' A brief explanation. A year ago, we had this legal project in the process. Unfortunately, in the House of Peoples the law did not receive support with an explanation that there are very bad solutions in the legal text... that need to be changed. 17 Since it has been one year since that time, and since we have not received the legal project, I am referring this question, with the requirement that the legislative project should appear in the procedure as soon as possible, in order to resolve this significant issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3685	Thank you very much. Next is Mr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3686	Madam Chairman, I have a question from the Board of Direct Taxation. The question is: 'Is the Directorate for indirect taxation prepared an analysis of the effects of introducing a lower VAT rate, given that it was one of the conclusions of the committee responsible when the proposal which Mr Dokić and I, on behalf of the PDP, rejected, submitted on the introduction of a lower VAT rate to a limited number of products?' In fact, it was the Commission's conclusion that, until then, talk was made in mind and that a once-in-a-lifetime financial analysis was needed, which would mean, in particular, introducing a lower rate and seeing that the missing funds were provided by an increase in excise duties. It was the conclusion of a year, a year and a half ago, we've never received that document, and that's why I'm asking this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3687	Thank you very much. Next is Mr. Koprivica. I apologize, if I don't see well... and I don't have a feeling who gave up before, so if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3688	I thank you, Madam Chairman, for your word. I have one initiative addressed to the Joint College of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, and it concerns the purchase of a minibus. I propose the title to consider this initiative as soon as possible and to make a decision on the purchase of a passenger vehicle minibus up to 15 seats. The vehicle would serve the needs of Parliament, parliamentary commissions and services when visiting the surrounding and closer European countries. Given the air traffic prices, I believe that one such investment would be paid off in a short time. That is why I am launching this initiative, and I propose to the Joint College that, after an analysis of the needs of the BiH Parliament and the huge costs of air transport, it should make a decision in the proposed sense. It is clear that Budget for this year has already been adopted and that this item is not envisaged but I also suggest that it be a potential proposal for a possible next year. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3689	Thank you very much. Next is Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3690	- Thank you very much, Your Honor. I welcome you and the co-chairs, distinguished fellow envoys and all present here at today's session of our home. I will ask the question in front of the Club of Envoys of the Croatian People in the House of Peoples. We are forced to refer a question to the Court of Justice of BiH, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH. We have... that practice that he had.../a briefly interrupted recording/... It seems to me that, unfortunately, such practice is also being taken over by the BiH Court and that this is happening in that direction. 'Intently... In 2009, the BiH Court sentenced four Hrvat to alleged crimes against Musliman, Bošnjak, at the time Musliman, in the military prison near Mostar of 80 years. They're not charged with murder and the murder never happened. On the same day, and this is what bothers us, the same court has freed four Bošnjak from Bugojna who are accused of crimes against Hrvat in the infamous Camp Stadium. Remembrances, Hrvat were imprisoned in the open air, meaning at the football stadium since 11.7.93. until 19.3.94. For years, it means eight and a half months, despite being registered at the International Red Cross. I would also like to remind that people who were educated in higher education - were killed or still missing. So, in that case, it was a selective approach, that it was important that the man was a doctor, an engineer, a professor, to the poet Frane... Still looking for 21 prisoners of this camp. The Hague Court also found that there were about 20 places for the detention of Hrvat in Bugojn, and that day these people were released. How is this possible, and does this judgment work according to the principle of righteousness?" Also, a second question to the same institutions. 'How is it possible that those convicted of war crimes against Hrvat civilians in Grabovica – Nihad Vlahovljak, Haris Rajkić and Sead Karagić, all sentenced to 13 years in prison by the County Court in Mostar, confirmed by the BiH Court on 18 September 2008 – are still at large?' The motive of these questions is to point out the need and the necessary justice of this country must do everything about punishing all crimes for the purpose of truth and justice so that we can build a better future.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3691	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3692	Dear colleagues, I would only, before I read this question, congratulate one man, or institution. I think it's called the Veterinary Office or something that's been doing a lot of 19 and banned the import of milk and milk products from Croatia because the Croatian authorities previously banned the export of milk from the dairy industry in Dubica, if I'm not mistaken. So, for the first time, someone dared in this country to reciprocate some move from a neighboring country, and they're robbing us unseen. My question is in that sense, so I'm giving it to the Council of Ministers because he's making a decision on it. BiH is the only country in Europe that has no rules on natural spring and mineral waters, that is correct. So we have a completely unregulated situation in this area at bh. the market which, of course, is used by manufacturers of these products from the environment. At the same time, these environmental producers have singled out that the same rules include provisions that virtually prevent the export of source and mineral water from BiH, e.g. Croatia. The question is, "Why do we still not have to mention the rule in BiH, that is, when will we get the Rules of Natural Source and Mineral Waters?" I note that there must be reciprocal provisions on provisions laid down in the same regulations from countries in the environment." Why am I telling you this? Our regulation, which I'm talking about, four years ago has already been agreed upon, and when, perhaps one year or eight months ago in the Chamber, they presented everything to the producers except for the provision by which everyone can import, export these products to BiH, it is enough to show the certificate of their host organisation dealing with the analysis. The environmental rules say that when we want to export it to Croatia we must have a certificate from an institution that is from the EU. And, okay, I don't think that's a problem, it's okay, but that certificate costs between 5,000 and 8,000 euros. Since water is cheap goods to us, (and it's worth six months), it's burdening us with the whole production... about 20% to 25% and that's why we can't export it there. And in us you can export whatever you want, you can't even control it, because you have nothing to compare. It can be heavy metals, it can be anything, the only thing that can be microbiologically controlled. Why don't you guys finish this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3693	Thank you very much. ... Therefore, because of the illegal submission of the report on the criminal offence against Prime Minister Milorad Dodik and 14 persons from the RS, I ask for information on the following: 1. I ask the Council of Ministers to initiate, to inform me whether an investigation has been launched in the SIPA in order to determine the responsibility of the participants in this action and to ask me what measures are proposed in that institution. [[no microphone turned on]] So that's the first thing. The other thing is that I – I have to, I am turning the initiative... so you will forgive me – to give me the information that measures are taken to overcome the situation in the SIPA institution. To provide me with information on the names of the persons and the national structure of those who participated in the taking of statements. 20 2. I ask the director of SIPA to brief me on the exact answers to the following questions: - Was he familiar with the previous investigation in SIPA, in particular the way in which he handed over the Report to the Prosecutor against the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and others? - If he wasn't aware, who authorized the S.I.P.A. investigation? - What did he do to the responsible faces in the SIPA? 3. I ask the BiH Prosecutor's Office to brief me on the exact answers to the following questions: - Was he familiar with the previous investigation, especially the way this report was received against the RS Prime Minister and others, when and how did he find out about this report submitted to the prosecution? - If he wasn't aware, who approved the secret investigation in the BiH Prosecutor's Office? - što did he do to the responsible persons in the BiH Prosecutor's Office? 4. I ask the High Court and Prosecutorial Council: - To carry out an examination of their work in the justice of the countries within 30 days... of all foreign prosecutors and judges in the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice, and to provide me with information. - To provide me with information on the responsibility of D.A. Drew Engel and Harij Furlan, in particular. - I Takođe ask the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to request information from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia on the benefits of prosecutor Harij Furlan to perform his duties as prosecutor in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. 5. Finally, I ask the Joint Commission for Defence and Security to take the necessary measures, in accordance with its powers, to remove illegality in the work of the SIPA and to submit a report to me. Thank you very much. So, any other questions? There isn't. We can move to the next point. Point 4. 21 Ad. 4. The adoption of the minutes from the 24th session of the House of Peoples You've received this record. Who's answering for a word? Any objections to the 24th session of the House? So there isn't. I think we've adopted the 24th session. We're going to the fifth point. Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on the Protection and Well-being of Animals (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3696	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, therefore, I know, as you said, that this is the phase of reviewing this law in a way that we are now voting on the law as a whole, given that the amendment phase has passed and that there has been some amendments to the text of the bill on the committee. We know that in the last session this law was proposed, and in front of the session, we all, as delegates and as the clubs of the people, have received certain written and certain warnings from the citizens' associations dealing with certain traditional events that we know, whether, as cords, claiming that the proposed text of the law will in the future disable these traditional events which, whether or not, have their own history and for several hundred years. With that in mind, we were ready to propose last time, so together all three clubs, to consider this law as follows: to allow the respected College to apply Article 112. Of course, it can be interpreted in both this and that way, given that citizens have spoken to us after the deadlines and the possibilities of the amendment have expired, so that we should act in a way that will delay today's statement, extend the possible amendment phase, allow all of us to carry out further consultations with citizens' associations, as well as with animal protection institutions. If it's a veterinary station, if it's this office, if it's a college, and all the others who need to give their opinion on this law, then 22 that when we look at it, we'll decide on the law at the next session. Of course, we've all had contacts with Office and OHR representatives. We know our attitude. He has changed somewhat about today's session, which goes about in this direction that the Exciptive Law does not prohibit the organisation of these traditional events, so that it could possibly be allowed in a sublegal act, allow, etc. Of course, the luxury is to let it be regulated in the sublegal act, because the question is whether it will be, who will be, in what quality it will be. We know that the sublegal act, is it, must be in accordance with the law, so I would ask all of us, here, to respect these things and give us once again a chance to consider this law this way, so that perhaps at the next session we can adopt this law. So, basically, me and the Bosniak People's Club are for this law, I'm not prejudged, so we give ourselves a chance to reconsider all these possibilities and aspects and then vote on the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3697	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who answers your question? Mr. Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3698	I thank you, Madam Chairman. Let me give you both this way and this opportunity to once again congratulate you on your choice as a member of the College. I wish you successful work, so in a new role, in a new position, and I have no doubt in good co-operation with other members at all, and I believe in good co-operation with other members of the Kolegijum. I also thank Mr Mladen Ivanić for his work in the College so far, as a member of the Kolegijum, and I thank him for his current presidency, for his good cooperation within this club, and I believe that this cooperation will continue within this club and in this new role. I will state my position now on this bill of law that we have here. Our position is and we will support this bill's proposal in the same text as it passed the House of Representatives procedure, based on everything that you, the president, have said and said. I also appreciate what Mr. Rančić said. We all got these memos from these associations, and they deserve attention, but I suggest, based on what I said, yes, here's our attitude and opinion to adopt a law that passed the House of Representatives procedure, respecting this, Mr. Rančić, what you said, so in a short time, here's that, based on those demands and memos of those associations, we don't have to wait long enough to make changes to what they're looking for. I think we can do it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3699	Thank you very much. 23 Is there anyone else...? Here, I give myself my word. ...at the last session, I and Mr. Rančić spoke on this topic, especially at the moment when different organizations appeared which as they learned at the last moment what was going on with this law and that this would question traditional bull fights that have been held in these areas for hundreds of years. I'm a trace of that information, first of all... that media suddenly appeared very many people who spoke about the protection of domestic beef or, I don't know, what there was no story there. But I, let's say, checked – The Grmečka cord is the most traditional place where bulls compete and then I wanted to see what it looked like. And I received information that... this corridor is being held in the traditional event "The Kočić Days", which lasts seven days and one day is, indeed, committed to competing bulls but without any blood and no reward of money and no betting, in that sense, that whoever wins will get that and that money. So, the prize for fighting is the Yabla plaque that binds all this to this traditional event. That kind of bull competition isn't even treated by this law. So, I think that those bull fights that are related to animal torture and should be banned and the Club of Serbian delegates will support such a law in the original text as it came with amendments that we adopted and passed at the House of Representatives. Here you go, Branko.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3700	Madam Chairman, everyone else, I've already welcomed you. Here, I need to talk a little bit about the bulls, because I already told my colleagues, Rančić, that we would support the initiative. Now we come into one situation, the law doesn't fall thank Bog, we just extend... for a while. I'd like to agree to this if we don't fall for such simple things. I thought, inspired by what you've said about the bushy cord, to say that there really are, though my space doesn't know what a bullfight is, but I know media, I know from the stories that it really is a problem, but a problem that has both its face and its looks. The story of Grmeč is a person who is not a problem, but a story on some other sides where similar events are organised for one other purpose, carried out, where money was the only measure and the only criterion and it turns into a slaughterhouse. That's true, not just for fighting bulls, but for fighting dogs, etc., this, this, what's in the whole world, the civilized world, is simply forbidden by law. Here, indeed, we need to find, if we're going to go with the law, we need to find a precise measure here. There must be really established criteria by which the name and last name, the manifestation of the name and last name will allow what is called a bullfight. Now, is the way out here in calling for Article 112 or... or is the way out in the conclusion that we will immediately approach, immediately access the amendment and addition of this law, means the amendment and addition of this law. So, right now, we can transfer the initiative to, here, a colleague of the Hazim and in one of the next sessions to accept these amendments and additions to this law, but... We cannot stay, I am telling you seriously now, we cannot stay at the level of the legal Balkans, we know what it is and how European legislation is. [[Disable microphone]] So here we need to think carefully and really define by law what it is and where the cord is possible. Beyond that, it is simply subject to a legal ban. 24 I have tried to find a way out of this situation so that we do not re-vote and that again in the third round we do not all vote for a proposal, a proposal for this law. So it's acceptable whatever we agree on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3701	Thank you very much. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3702	Here, I would, so what Mrs. Majkić said, I confirm, I was on those corridors and more of us Sanica had the same thing. And when you look at it like that, it's supposed to be allowed and it's a tradition, and there's 50, 60, 70,000 people there. I suggest, I don't know if there's any implementing act, whether it's foreseen in this law, if it's up to us to conclude here that the implementing act says, so in the regulation of someone, that such corridors are allowed, and that this decision is made, by someone's request, by some body, I don't know either, which otherwise offered this law, I don't know, or to go to what they're talking about, is an ego for me. So, I am today to pass this law, either with this conclusion or with Mr. Zrn's conclusion. And to vote on the law with one conclusion, whether it should be said in the implementing act what and how or how to go about amending the law which is a little more difficult. But if, in conclusion... if there is an implementing act, then it would be the easiest thing to do there. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3703	Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3704	Thank you very much. So, in the letters of these associations, it is said that in neighbouring countries there is a solution where it is allowed, whether it is a traditional gathering and the conduct of such events. We also all know that in Spain, which is an EU member state, the activities of a particular species in this field are taking place. Whether it's good or not, I'm not an expert and I won't argue. I am because BiH has harmonised its rules with the EU. So here, perhaps as an alternative, to what we said, that, with the support of the law, please colleagues, colleagues – to support one or two conclusions. The first is that after the adoption of this law in the implementing acts, the solution was contained by the people of the Office, which is to allow these traditional manifestations and with such a law. And the second conclusion, here, is that it is the Council of Ministers' duty to immediately approach this aspect of the law and to eventually initiate amendments and supplement this law. Here, please support that. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3705	Is there anyone else to answer for? Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3706	Thank you, Madam Chairman, for your word. In any case, I think we should not miss the opportunity for BiH to finally get the Animal Protection and Well-being Act. We have two options ahead of us, one is to accept, as Mr. Rančić said, the text we received from the House of Representatives with the amendments adopted, and the second is the exit option proposed by Mr. Rančić (this first option in the sense that the implementing act regulates this issue on which he spoke). I think both of them must be acceptable. My personal opinion and my personal opinion is also the opinion of our club: that the House declares this first version of Mr. Rančić, means that the implementing act solves this issue by which he has now tabled a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3707	Thank you very much. Who's next? .../microphone off/... Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3708	Thank you very much. I think I'm going to go back to my phone call, but I feel like I need to say it. This is one of the laws that seems to be a little harmless, but it paints the community of society whether it wants or goes towards what civilizations have. I am one of those who advocates that we adopt this law in the form in which it is and with this proposal the conclusion of the honourable envoy Rančić to order the Council of Ministers to make part of the implementation, and the reason is that the profession, primarily veterinarians and others who care about animals, must say in such cases. If such gatherings are approved, we can't have this practice that we now have since the birth of the calf and then the hormones are given to these animals, the horns are grinded. When the bulls won't even face each other, then push them. Still, we need to achieve these two things to reconcile. So I propose that, colleagues, today we adopt this law in this form, and the conclusion to the Council of Ministers that the profession says how to organise and at all what to organise.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3709	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who can take your word for it? ... about the law, and then we'll talk about the conclusions. [[no microphone turned on]] So I'm giving the law a vote. First we vote, first who's "yes"? I find that unanimously this law has been passed... 26 Is it necessary to repeat it again? Okay. Now let's get to the bottom of this. So Mr. Rančić's proposal precisely, although not precisely defined, I would like Mr. Rančić to define his conclusion in writing, because this is not quite the conclusion. So I'm really asking you to, here we put that conclusion to the vote, but exactly to see how it goes. As I understand it: that the Council of Ministers regulates the question of cord, is it, the fighting of bulls. Please, well, look, the five of us make a point. Please make a point as it should be. That goes for Mr. Jović, too, because he had the same conclusion. I think the Council of Ministers will certainly make an implementing act and it is absurd that we are now giving them some instruction of this kind. Here, we can ask them to consider it, but we can tell them to solve it in a sublegal act, really... Here you go, Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3710	: While an esteemed colleague writes a conclusion that I will probably agree with, I just want to avoid the word 'fight', to avoid the word 'fight'. To be or the cord, the competition...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3711	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3712	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3713	So the law rules out fighting, and there's no need to talk about it, so we need to define this conclusion. Mrs. Čolo, you'd better help your colleague, Rančić, to come out with this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3714	And there are no other conclusions, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3715	There are no long ones.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3716	That's right. That we agree on everything like bulls.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3717	We can hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3718	...please support that. So: 1. It is up to the Council of Ministers, the Resort Ministry and the Veterinary Office to allow, in sublegal acts of the Animal Welfare Act, the organisation of a traditional bull competition at traditional events." 27 2. It is up to the Council of Ministers to take a look at the aspect of the traditional competition of bulls and traditional events and to initiate amendments to the Animal Welfare Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3719	... Who Is For? ... [[no microphone turned on]] Who is “abstained? ” Can we vote again?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3720	Chairman, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3722	So, nicely please apply the Rules of Procedure literally. We made the vote. We undisputedly established, and you said that eight of us were "for", I can tell you who was everything and that four of you were "against" and no one was "sustained".
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3723	I'm asking you to have the understanding that I'm working for the first time in this room today and we're relying on people who help us get to the number of votes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3724	I'm not finished, can I finish? Can I finish? Thank you very much. So, eight votes, in those eight votes, contained an appropriate required entity majority. And therefore, this conclusion has been given to the required majority. I'm asking you not to argue. The introduction of a new vote is just a challenge to this matter. And I don't think anyone's right about that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3725	So, since it's... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3726	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3727	Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3728	I will vote as I voted, and I voted for this conclusion. Therefore, if the service has a problem with voting again, it is not a problem. And Mr. Šaraba will vote the same way he voted on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3729	So, please understand that we have to sneak into this system, if we were at an electronic vote, we wouldn't need this. So we're voting again. Who is "for" this conclusion by Mr. Rančić? Who Is “against ”? Who is “abstained ”? Passed this conclusion (two, need two, ok). The conclusion has passed. Moving to the next point. I ask Mr. Rančić to draw his conclusion, no matter what he read, to bring it here and hand it over. Okay. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. The House of Representatives passed this law with 26 amendments. You've received a report from the competent commission... The Commission adopted all 26 amendments. There were no new amendments. Is anyone answering for a word? Is anyone answering for a word? So I'm closing the debate and we're going to vote. Who is "for" the proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms? Unanimity. Does anyone have “against ”? "Sustained"? So we unanimously adopted the bill on genetically modified organisms. Moving to point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Public TV System of BiH (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers 29
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3732	Mrs Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3733	I ask the Hrvat Club to propose.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3734	Mr. Rudo Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3735	Thank you very much. And a Serbian club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3736	Mr. Zoran Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3737	Zoran Koprivica. Here, so we have a Commission for Harmonization that will meet and bring this law into line in a different text. Who is "for" this commission proposal? Thank you very much. Unanimity. Does anyone have “against ”? 30 We move to the 8th point of the agenda. Ad. 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers You've received the bill's proposal as well as the Commission's opinion. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives passed this law in its first reading. This is the first reading, first there is a debate on the principles on which the law is based. Who's answering for a word? I'm opening a debate. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3739	Well, I'm just saying, so we're going to, the Bošnjak delegates' club is going to vote for this law in the first reading, but I'm saying there are a lot of things that people don't understand here. So it's about the next one. We are now, will-not, an integral part of the EU market, we no longer have customs from the EU, they have given us the concession to tear down customs every year from the EU to BiH, and in six years it's zero. So we must have a customs tariff that is the same as the EU tariff. And it's an egal. This sugar, which was here, is exactly what... Customs tariffs are 10%. [[Disable microphone]] However, it is not the only product that does not comply with the EU customs tariff. That's why he asked for this beginning to work with the amendments. There are about 42% to 45% of products that must have the same treatment as sugar. I, for example, was in charge of two or three products imported from China, Taiwan, and I don't know, who have customs here again, the EU doesn't. And then he's uncompetitive when he exports the refrigerators there for that part of customs that pays the EU. That is why we will submit an amendment for the next session when it is adopted in the second reading, in which we will count all that to be in line with the EU Customs Tariff. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3740	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else to answer for? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. So who's "for" the draft law on the BiH Agency for the Development of the Information Society? Who Is For? [[Common discussion]] I apologize, the proposed customs tariff law of BiH. Who is "for" the bill? So we adopt in first reading this law. 31 Does One Have “against ”? One 12 “for, ” one“ against. ” Are There “Restraints ”? There isn't. I believe that we adopted, in our first reading, the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act. Moving to point 9. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on the BiH Information Society Development Agency (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3743	Thank you. Dear gentlemen, I do not believe that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, given that certain provisions of this law are in direct collegiation with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which makes it clear that technological developments, including the information society, are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the entities. The very term of the BiH Information Society for whose development would be in charge of the Agency established by this law has been asked, given that according to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Decision on the establishment of the RS Information Society Agency, the body is responsible for the development of the Information Society in the RS. Given that there is no relevant body of the same or similar competences in the Federation of BiH and Brcko District of BiH, we are the view that only the mutual work of these bodies can develop an information society in BiH. Article 6(2) also provides for the possibility of the establishment of organisational branches of such a body which, in relation to the Agency for the Information Society of the RS, would be in direct conflict. Article 8 prescribes the responsibility of the future Agency for meeting the objectives of the BiH Information Society's policy and strategy. The experience so far shows that very little has been done in terms of achieving these goals. For all of these reasons, the Spanish People's Delegates Club cannot support the constitutional basis and principles of the law mentioned, as we consider it to be the entity's exclusive jurisdiction in BiH. I therefore express our opposition to the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3744	Thank you very much. Are there any more reported? Rudo Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3745	Thank you, Madam President. 32 So, not entering the explanation of my colleague Koprivice, we heard this argument when the competent committee discussed this proposal for a Law on the Development Agency of the Information Society of BiH and, regardless of what the first reading is, I also feel the need to say a few words which, of course, at second reading, when it comes to the content of the law, probably followed some amendments in some articles of this law. However, what I think is now important to say is actually the need for this law for a number of reasons. It is known to all of us that BiH's competent institutions have long since defined that BiH should show good faith with all its development programmes that it wants to be an information society. And it should not forget the important fact that the BiH Council of Ministers at the 69th session, so on 16.11.2004, adopted a policy, namely the Strategy and Action Plan for the Development of the Information Society in BiH and, unless the procedure for the establishment of this agency would follow the whole process, it would probably remain a dead letter on paper. For these reasons, of course, I absolutely support the principles of this law in first reading, and here I would say some adjustments that certain articles I have noticed. Now, of course, I will not present them in detail now, but when it comes to the time of the amendment phase, of course I will deliver them within the scheduled period, especially when it comes to Article 13 of the Agency's Council's work, where competent consent and rules are defined, etc. – will follow, of course, the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3746	Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3747	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Madam Chairman. So, the Bosniak Club will support the adoption of this law and we believe that if our Constitutional Commission has assessed the existence of a constitutional basis that it is undeniable. Of course, everyone can be an individual opinion, but it doesn't have... as has the Constitutional Commission's position. BiH's jurisdiction, therefore, is also one of BiH institutions' competences, and things concerning BiH's international legal entity. And as counterpart Vidović said, in light of this law on the reasons for the adoption of this law, the Council of Ministers of BiH, at its 69th session in 2004 adopted... The strategy and the Action Plan for the Development of the Information Society in BiH. These documents have clearly identified the confirmation of the existence of a specific institution at the level of BiH in which... [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3748	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3749	The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications discussed this law at the first commission stage and then we showed good will according to a proposal by delegates coming from the RS, as they asked for the first commission phase to be extended within a month to carry out further consultations with RS authorities. Although in the Rules of Procedure of the People's House we did not have a foothold to postpone the review of the law in the first commission phase, we met them, waited a month. We did not receive any feedback at the Commission's meeting, with three votes "for" and two votes "against", the principles of this law are supported. I would just like to remind the delegates that the Directorate for European Integration gave its opinion at the session of our commission, where it is said that the establishment of the Information Society Agency is a prerequisite for establishing a quality development of the BiH Information Society, which is certainly one of the priorities of the European Partnership with BiH, as well as the Strategy for the Development of the Information Society in BiH, which we agreed on in 2004.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3750	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who answers your question? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Who is "for" the Proposal for a Law on the BiH Agency for the Development of the Information Society? Who Is “against ”? Four. Who is “abstained ”? One. So we don't have an entity majority from the RS. We're going to get a match. So we're going to the second round. So who's "for" the bill? Who Is “against ”? Four. The law didn't pass. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad. Ten. Proposal for an Air Force Act BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers You've received the bill's proposal as well as the Commission's opinion. The Commission accepted the principles proposed with the conclusion. The House of Representatives passed this law in its first reading. This is the first reading, so in accordance with Article 100, a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based is first held. Who's answering for a word? Here, Mr. Koprivica. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3752	Thank you. We are ahead of us in the first reading of the BiH Air Force Bill. As the chairman-in-Office said, the Constitutional Commission, i.e. the committee in charge, gave a positive opinion on the constitutional legal basis, and the harmonisation of the law with the Constitution of BiH, and agreed that the law should be referred to a further parliamentary legislative procedure. I would not speak further on this occasion if I were not to take the time and suggest that we accept this law in the first reading, and in the further procedure, that we, either in an amendment or in another way, agree on the proposed text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3753	Thank you very much. Is there more? Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3754	Thank you very much. Here, unlike a moment ago, of course I will support the thinking of my colleague Koprivica, so the law in first reading is the way it is and, as far as my thinking goes, it can go further. However, what I would like to say about such an important law is, in fact, the content of some articles that should, in my opinion, change, which will also be the content of amendments in the second phase but, behold, it is not bad and it is not bad to say and now, in the first reading, because it is actually the principles of the law which, in my opinion and in the opinion of the fellow I have consulted with, should also be brought into line with some domestic regulations, and it is particularly necessary to comply with European legislation in the field of aviation. But what I've noticed as a flaw in some articles, for example. Article 10, where the Director and two Deputy Directors are elected, of course, the law should have the mandate, which is the mandate, so whether it is four years or, of course, four years is logical, so I don't know, the organisation in Article 3, so with whoever approves, whether the Minister is in agreement with the Council of Ministers. Then, financing? Please, this law should be clearly counted in the section on the financial assessment of the indicative financial plan. So, what are expenditures, what are revenues, what BiH gets by passing this law, an important law. So that, in my opinion, will all be contained in amendments that will be in phase two and, of course, now, at this first stage I absolutely support in the first reading of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3755	Thank you, Mr. Vidović. Is there anyone else to answer for? There isn't. I'm closing the discussion. We're going to vote. 35 Who is “for” the proposal of the Air Force Act in the first reading? Does anyone have “against ”? "Sustained"? Unanimity passed this law. Point 11 is the law that follows this one. Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers You've reached the bill of law and the opinion of the committee in charge. The principles of the proposed law with the conclusion have been adopted. The House of Representatives passed this law in its first reading. We are having a debate on the principles on which this law is based. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3757	Please, the chairman, and in this law and this previous one, the Commission has proposed an extension of the amendment phase. Well, we just missed it, so we can, one conclusion after both of these, approve an extension of the amendment phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3758	Thank you very much. I think there's a debate going on at the next House of Representatives session. So, to adopt the conclusion proposed by the Commission: that, given that the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has not yet completed the procedure for the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of services in the air navigation of BiH, the amendment phase for this bill is being extended to 24 hours before the Commission's meeting is held. ... So we vote first on the law and then we'll vote on the conclusion. I invite you to vote. Who Is For? Who Is “against ”? "Sustained"? So, unanimity has passed this law. We're going to the conclusion that goes to both the previous point 10 and 11. Who is the “for ” conclusion? Is it “against ”? "Sustained"? So this conclusion was unanimously adopted. 36 Moving to the next agenda point, that's point 12. Ad. 12. Declaration on the Bill on juvenile offenders and criminal protection of children and minors (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers We held a debate on that bill at the 23rd session of the House. We delayed our statement on the Bill's proposal until the public debate was concluded. As you know, the public hearing is over and we have a report. You have received the Commission's opinion, and now we have only one thing left to say about the Bill on juvenile offenders and criminal protection of children and minors in the first reading. I'll remind you that the House of Representatives passed the bill in the first reading. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3760	There is another law before us for which the Club of the Serb People's Delegation cannot give a positive opinion and we will not vote for the reason that Article III of the BiH Constitution has established jurisdiction and relations between BiH institutions and entities. Therefore, Article III of position 1 established the competence of BiH institutions and the position of the entity's 2rd and 3rd competences. The 2nd position states that entities are obliged, among other things, to provide and implement internationally recognised standards of human rights and fundamental freedoms established by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and 3rd, that entities are in the jurisdiction of all government functions and powers which are not given by this Constitution in the jurisdiction of BiH institutions, and that entities are obliged to fully adhere to this Constitution, and to the constitution and laws of entities. Therefore, without a more detailed explanation of the text of the proposed law, the Serbian People's Delegates Club will not support the adoption of this law because there is no constitutional basis for its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3761	Who's next to answer the word? I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. Please state who is "for" the Proposed Law on juvenile offenders and criminal protection of children and minors in the first reading? Who Is “against ”? There's no entity majority. 37 So, there's a match in college. I have no one to agree with. We'll leave it for later alignment, so we can move on, because we can't wait. So, there's a alignment, we don't have an entity majority for this law. Let's go to the next point, that's point 13. Ad. 13. Proposal for a law on free legal aid (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers You've received the bill's proposal, as well as the opinion of the committee in charge. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives passed this law in its first reading. So we're having a first debate on the principles on which this law is based. I'm opening a discussion. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3763	Thank you. As is known, during 2007 ahead of this house, or before the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Proposed Law on Free Legal Assistance in Civil Affairs has already been in the process. It is also known that we did not have a consensus at the time to call the law a criminal law and regulate the issue of free legal aid and there was a known outcome, so at that time the law on BiH's free legal assistance in civil matters was not adopted. Here, now we have a chance to talk about one of those, similar to that law. Republika Srpska, as is known, has already adopted the Law on Free Legal Assistance, whose constitutional basis is contained in Amendment XXXII to Article 68 paragraph 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, under which the Republic shall regulate and provide for the organisation of the competences and work of the national authorities, as well as in Article 16. The Constitution, under which each person has the right to equal protection of his rights in proceedings before the court and other state bodies and organisations and Article 19. The constitution where the right to defence is guaranteed is guaranteed the right to free choice of defenders and the uninterrupted association with him. The Law on Free Legal Assistance of the Republic of Slovenia represents the fulfilment of the obligations of the RS under the Constitution and according to the obligations made by the RS under the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, which is incorporated into the legal system of the RS. Namely, one of the basic principles of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights is the principle of protection of access to justice. Legal aid is a form of exercising the right of a natural person to a fair trial, equal access to justice. Analyzing the text of this law delivered, which we had the opportunity to consider, we found that in some members of the law mentioned, it is up to the RS and the Brcko District of BiH to establish 38 by their laws certain rights and obligations which constitute a violation of the RS Constitution. Therefore, it is impossible by state law to impose rights and obligations on entities which are in the exclusive jurisdiction of entities. Therefore, this is a particular reason why we cannot give a positive opinion and vote in favour of the proposed law on free legal aid. Also, the provision of Article IV (a) of the Constitution of BiH, which is listed in the preamble to the Bill on Free Legal Assistance as a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, requires the universal jurisdiction of the Parliamentary Assembly for the adoption of all laws, which is why, in our opinion, this cannot be a sufficient constitutional basis for the adoption of the proposed law. This is because Article III of the BiH Constitution determines jurisdiction and relations between BiH institutions and entities. Therefore, it is in a specific case of the exclusive jurisdiction of the RS. By way of derogation from Article 16(1), The RS Constitution, as I have already said, has established that everyone has the right to equal protection of their rights in the court and other state organisations proceedings. In this connection, I have also stated, I have already passed a law on free legal aid which provides for the application of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, one of the basic principles of the European Convention, the principles of protection and access to justice which, among other things, implies equality and the possibility of access to the protection of its rights in all proceedings, all citizens, regardless of their property opportunities. Therefore, for all these reasons, which I have already stated, I believe there is no constitutional basis for the adoption of such a law and the Club of delegates of the Serb people will vote against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3764	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3765	Well, as Mr. Koprivica left today, BiH seems to have no jurisdiction for anything, the RS has everything. The question of free legal assistance is a question guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights, you have read it well, and that is the right given to the poor. So, people who have no right to pay for the help of defenders in a court procedure guaranteed to them by this convention. BiH is a country that is required to implement the European Convention on Human Rights and is responsible before the European Court of Human Rights. Every citizen of this country has the right to oppose the decision of any court in BiH, which he is not satisfied with, and considers that his right to be guaranteed by Article 6 has been violated. The European Convention on Human Rights, which is fair to a fair procedure which, among other things, in addition to... innocence and the right to access a court implies and the right to a defender, the right to defence, which is a very broad right. Every citizen has the right to open proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Who is responsible for the European Court of Human Rights verdict? Can you, Mr. Koprivic, tell me if BiH is responsible or whether entities are responsible under all European Court rulings 39 for human rights, and we now have before the European Court of Human Rights close to two thousand appeals at the end of 2008. We have eight verdicts, only eight judgments made by the court, so BiH is facing a great deal of appeals brought by our citizens before the European Court of Human Rights. And you are here now claiming that BiH has no jurisdiction to regulate some of its laws in providing free legal assistance. I ask you, the chairman, before saying that the representative of the Resort Ministry of Justice, who is the processor of this law, explains a little to the delegates who may not understand themselves enough in this matter, and here Mr. Koprivica has read it nicely from the paper, to explain to us whether BiH has jurisdiction in this area and whether this law is in the jurisdiction of the entity, and these powers are prescribed by lower acts. The constitution and the Federation and RS is a lower act than the BiH Constitution. The law on legal aid to the RS is a lower act than this law we need to bring here. Therefore, I ask the Justice Department's representative to give a brief clarification here, before the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3766	Thank you very much. Is there anyone present from the Ministry? Koprivica, is something about, can something help this or can we wait? Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3767	I'll try not to turn my back on you, thank you very much. In the context of this whole discussion, I actually think that Mr Koprivica mentioned that in 2007, this law was in parliamentary procedure in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and that in fact there was no disputed constitutional basis. So he passed the constitutional basis at both home and home. And now the constitutional basis has passed in the Constitutional Commission. Therefore, this law does not restrict the right in entities to organise free legal aid and, using a good part of the 2007 law, the RS passed its Law on free legal aid last year. It is the obligation of BiH to provide protection under the conventions and the Convention on Human Rights and Other Conventions in civil and legal matters, administrative matters, therefore, to provide one universal protection against all proceedings, against any body, so administration, judiciary, etc. In that sense, the call in the Constitution was to that universal call, in fact, the responsibility of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, because the Ministry is required only to indicate that jurisdiction, and in the explanation we cited Article III(3), which guarantees the right to a fair hearing in civil and criminal matters and other rights related to criminal proceedings and, of course, to the Convention on Human Rights. I think we wrote it all down and explained it. And I also think it seems a little strange that we pass the law once, the constitutional basis passes the debate and does not pass because of the non-acceptation of the name of the law, whether it is indicative or the law, that we are in fact establishing a system of free legal assistance for all BiH citizens. That there's an office in Brcko District already established, that there are offices for free legal aid in cantons. So we're not affecting the rights of the canton, the entity to organize this. 40 We also allow the state to organise free legal aid and introduce principles. So, if something can be fixed, it could have improved in the amendment phase, but if we can't actually organise free legal aid at the state level, then we're in a problem that's already been discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3768	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3769	Well, here, I feel the need to say a few more sentences. I will indeed again refer to this Article III of the BiH Constitution where jurisdiction and relations between BiH institutions and entities are determined. In the position of the 1st member, the powers of BiH institutions which include foreign policy, foreign trade policy, customs policy, monetary policy, the financing of BiH institutions and international obligations, and the policy and regulation of immigration, refugees and asylum issues, as well as the implementation of international and inter-entity criminal laws, including relations with interpol, the establishment and operation of common and international communications funds, and the regulation of international transport and air traffic control. Therefore, in the same article in paragraphs 2 and 3. The BiH Constitution prescribed entity powers, but not taxed, but the position of the 3rd member prescribed that all government functions and powers not explicitly entrusted to the BiH institutions belong to entities. In a particular case, so it's undeniable all that I've said ahead, and so I'm staying with my attitude and opinions that I'm...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3770	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3771	So each of us, Mr. Koprivic, can read the Constitution as it suits him. You can also read the responsibilities of only one, those that are taxed, and you can also read additional responsibilities where it says that BiH will assume the responsibilities that are in line with the annexes 5 to 8 of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH. This includes the Human Rights Agreement. The question of rights to the defender, free legal aid – rights to defence of persons who do not have the right, who do not have the means to pay for it – is a question of human rights guaranteed, not only to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Additional Protocols, but also to all other international documents that protect human rights, so I think that you read the Constitution as it suits you and you can continue to do so, and you can also prevent here the adoption of laws that are in the interest of BiH because you have mechanisms. But I don't think that's good. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3772	Thank you. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3773	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3774	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who can take your word for it? Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3775	I know I'm not going to change anything like I'm going to say, but here's when we started talking, I mean I wouldn't want to read anything and I don't have anything in front of me, no legal act, because here we've already heard and legal acts can be read the way they want to. However, the fact is that, in general and in practice, it simply proved necessary and necessary to pass such a law. It's a fact and we can't get away from it, no matter what we think of it, no one can get away from that fact. Secondly, the fact is that this bill (is it a proposal? ..., which has passed the first reading procedure in the House of Representatives, deserves the same attention, because it is also a fact that it does not derrogate in any part of it existing laws at entity level, nor prevents them, if they are not there, nor prevents their adoption, or their adoption. This law is a need at this level because, in the context of what is defined by the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedom, it is and must be regulated in this way. I know that by making this logic we will not come out of the existing situation and I am trying to find mechanisms that, in another way, we will come to Parliament's meetings so that we do not convince ourselves here that this is a transfer or not a transfer of jurisdiction, but in order to discuss here a little more, all of us, what it really is, when it comes to legislation, what we really need, or what we have to have to do to be a serious country and... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3776	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who'd like to take your word for it? I want to say it. I want to say that there have been attempts to compromise this law and that representatives from the RS, on the Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives, have tried to declare this law a framework and give it a pass. And everything would be the same, and that one word wouldn't degrade him, but it would allow us one resignation, it's a framework law, because we heard that one law had already been passed in the RS, and there was no really hearing at the Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives then, there was no hearing at the session of the Constitutional Commission of our home, because there were representatives from the RS too. At the House of Representatives session, there were not enough 42 votes "against" from the RS, so the law passed but since none of our initiatives and suggestions were proposed when it comes to this law we cannot vote for it. And that's why there's absolutely no need for us to convince each other anymore, everyone has their own attitude about it. So, we'll make a statement about the law. So, is there anyone else to answer for? Here you go, Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3777	Madam Chairman, I just want to, in a certain way, supplement a little on your discussion. Let's go back a little bit when we had the chance to talk about education laws. Let's go back a little bit to the applicable laws that regulated the issue of sports in BiH, etc. I think we have exactly and we have a similar situation in this law. ... So here's an area similar to what I just said. And I personally think that this is exactly what I want to complement what you said, and I think that in this way, if this area and this problem were treated, this law could also be supported in the same text as it is. So he missed it a little bit and missed it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3778	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else to answer for? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, I'm sorry. Okay, here we go, 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3781	... in a break to reach a certain compromise or exit related to a law that is on the agenda. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, given that the law is in the first reading, if we are essential to passing this law and to respect all the possible arguments and reasons you have spoken of, then, I ask you to support the law, it is the first reading, and then after we support this law, we will open the amendment phase in which you will be able and in which we will be able to, and in accordance with the unique rules for the making of legal rules that we often call upon, come to an acceptable text of the law in the second reading and vote on it. 43 So here, I beg you, it is about first reading, about principles, to support this law, and to correct in the amendment phase what may not be good in the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3782	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else to look for? I give myself my word. We've held consultations, we don't have the consent of the RS to vote for this law, so there's no point in still having a debate on this. Is anyone picking up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3783	After this statement of yours, it is obvious that you do not want this law without any real reasons or reasoned reasons you allegedly spoke of, arguing that there is something wrong with the law or that it needs to be fixed or not fixed. You and Priors refuse the law, and you are not in favour of this law being adopted with any repairs that could be done through the amendment phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3784	Thank you. Yeah, I just want one comment. We're in a position like this this morning, Mr. Rančić, when we were trying to figure out the reasons why you rejected our initiative, so there were none. And we didn't go looking anymore, so why won't you take it or take it as our decision, whatever it is she's made. And therefore, we bear responsibility for what we decide. So here, please. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3785	I would like you to say here that you will be held accountable if the state of BiH is punished before the European Court of Human Rights, because you know what sanctions, fines and sanctions are imposed on the European Court of Human Rights, unless BiH citizens are given the right to free legal assistance, in particular I mean the Court of BiH and other authorities at the state level.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3786	Thank you very much. 44 citizens of the RS have their own law and they are protected in this. Whether the Federation will pass a similar law or expect this one to protect its citizens, that is another issue. But let's not open that topic. Is there anyone else who wants to talk about this? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3787	Mrs. Dušanka Majkić, the Law on the Court of BiH, the Law on the Prosecution of BiH are not entity institutions and cannot be subject to entity laws to these institutions, to persons suspected, accused or convicted before these institutions, so I really don't know, I don't know if you are aware enough of the responsibility you take in your vote "against" of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3788	I don't really have a comment. I think we're carrying the responsibility of whatever it is. Please, if there are no concrete new proposals to complete this discussion. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. We're finishing this and we're going to vote. I'm closing the debate. Who is "for" the Proposed Law on Free Legal Assistance? Is it seven? Who is “against ” this law? There's no entity majority. Are There “Restraints ”? We're leaving for a match. We can move to the next point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3789	Chairman, business intervention. You have not determined the results of the vote. Have You called out who is “for”, who is “against”, who is “abstained”, but you did not say...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3790	Thank you. Seven “for ” and five“ against. ” I'm sorry, thank you. So here, you can see there's no entity... Moving to point 14. 45 Ad. 14. Proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH We've received a proposal and an opinion from the committee in charge. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives also passed the law in its first reading. There's a principle debate going on. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3792	I thank you, Chairman. Here, there is another one in a series of laws for which I also cannot give a positive view and a positive opinion in terms of its constitutional basis. First of all, this 'Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters' for the basis, as is known, has European legislation that regulates the issue of legal aid to conventions and international contracts, and in that part we agree that this part of the law is both safe and quality. However, the provision of Article 92 of this Law decides that the date of entry into force of this Law ceases to apply to the provisions of Chapters XXX and XXXI of the CAP, the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH, and hence the relevant provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure of the Republic of Slovenia. In other words, the proposed provision of this law indirectly confers jurisdiction from entities to the state, since the work of these transactions has so far been carried out by this ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, it is a direct transfer of jurisdiction and therefore the Club of delegates of the Serbian people disputes both this law and its constitutional legal basis. We explain that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article III of the BiH Constitution, which regulates matters of jurisdiction and relations between BiH institutions and entities. I have maločas read what this Article III regulates, not to repeat it now, and it is also pointed out that the reasons for the adoption of this law, according to processors, are in insufficient and incorrectly processed provisions of the BiH Criminal Procedure Act and entities that regulate the procedures for providing international legal assistance and the need to comply with the European conventions that regulate this area. So, above all, the European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters of 1959 with its Protocols, the European Convention on Extradition from 1957, the European Convention on the Transfer of Criminal Procedures of 1972, and the European Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons from 1983. However, the adoption of this law would condition the amendments and additions to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of the Republic of Slovenia, as I have already stated, and the erasure of Chapter XXXI of the Law, which regulates the procedure for providing international legal assistance and the enforcement of international contracts on criminal matters. This would result in a direct loss of jurisdiction in this part of the RS Department of Justice. That is enough reason that we from the Serbian People's Club cannot give a positive opinion and vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3793	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3794	Well, I don't know what it takes to convince ourselves today. The constitutional basis for this law is contained in Article III 1g) Implementation of international and inter-entity criminal laws, including relations with Interpol. Before the war in BiH, we had a law on criminal proceedings. It was the Law on the Criminal Procedure of the former SFRY, which applied to both BiH and all states. Our former common states have applied this law. In the Code of Criminal Procedure, there are special chapters relating to international criminal aid. Since BiH is a state that must implement international conventions, both the Convention on Extredition and other Conventions on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, it is normal to regulate this issue through state-level law and this law is done. And, of course, by passing this law, the need for these provisions to be incorporated in the four laws we now have is two entity laws, the Brcko District Criminal Procedure Act and the BiH Criminal Procedure Act. I do not need to mention that international institutions and other countries, which are well-intentioned towards our path to the EU, have estimated that the BiH Progress Report, lastly, is saying that there is a reregulation in the area of criminal law. Four laws on criminal proceedings and four laws on material law, four material criminal laws are really too much for a country such as BiH, given the territory and the number of inhabitants, and in particular provisions concerning the provision of assistance at international level should be incorporated into this one law and end the need for it to be in entity laws. And I think it was a mistake when the entity laws were passed that remained in the entity laws, because that was of course to go to the level of the BiH state.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3795	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who'd like to take your word for it? There isn't. A Rančić, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3796	So, just another addition. The law refers to BiH's international and legal subjectivity. It is also called 'The Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters' and regulates relations between the two states, the requesting state and the requested state, and international legal subjectivity is the jurisdiction of BiH, prescribed in Article III of point 5 of our Constitution. So, it is undeniable that it is jurisdiction and that our obligation is to pass such a law from this area, in order to, whether or not, implement bilateral agreements when they are concluded, and in case the 47 agreements are not concluded that we have a law by which our state, in collaboration with other countries, will have adequate co-operation in this area, criminally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3797	Thank you very much. Who else is answering for a word? Has anyone heard from you? A representative of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3798	I am Nikola Sladoje, assistant minister, processor of this law. I only thought there could be no disputed constitutional basis in the law. Mr. Koprivica has just read the authority of BiH institutions and precisely this point 1g) Implementation of international contracts. Even if some were deleted, if some provisions of entity law were to be deleted somewhere, that no longer falls within the constitutional basis, then we can fix that right now. And I don't know what Mr. Koprivica read, this head is changing that regulates international legal aid under the BiH Criminal Procedure Act. Therefore, only the process of providing international legal assistance is being discussed. And according to all international conventions, the BiH Ministry of Justice is the central authority for the process of providing international first aid. So no court in this country can address any other state body without the BiH Ministry of Justice. The question arises, communication exists through Interpol, any court in the state and from RS can communicate through Interpol BiH. So... and the Ministry of Entity and State. If there is that possibility, why not be a direct communication of courts with the BiH Ministry of Justice. Furthermore, even in transitional provisions, if they are controversial, it may even be one, perhaps, proposal for an amendment, that entities are obliged to comply with their laws within six months, so that they do not delete those provisions. So, the way of communication in international legal aid can go through entities, it does not have to be excluded, although entities, even the RS, have asked for direct communication, because one of the most common calls from Trebinj, (I may have widely started to explain, but I want to say it is not a constitutional basis at all), one call from Trebinj for a witness in Germany must go to Banja Luka to the Ministry of Justice, then to the Ministry of Justice in BiH, and to the other Ministry of Justice of the other state, so the most common call travels three months. And the courts insisted that this procedure be shortened. Perhaps I should conclude. The constitutional basis, in my opinion, could by no means be disputed, could be certain amendments to the law, now in the amendment procedure. I don't know if I should explain if it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3799	Thank you, thank you, you've explained enough. Thank you. Is there anyone else to answer for? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We're getting ready to vote. 48 Who is "for" the Proposed Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters? Who Is “against ”? Who is “abstained ”? The law didn't pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3800	There's no entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3801	No entity majority, no pass. There is no Mr. Tihić, so he stays for the next session to make a report on the reconciliation. Moving to the next agenda point, that's 15. Ad. 15. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You've got this bill, and you've got the commission's position. The House of Representatives passed this law. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3803	Here, we finally have one text of the bill that we can support, with certain provisions that we will, in the further procedure of law-making, surely require to be corrected. First of all, in addition to Article 2 of the 40th position (4), we believe that the proposed solution, which concerns the authority of the inspector, should refer exclusively to persons who maintain the sentence of imprisonment and the measure of detention imposed by or designated by the Court of Justice of BiH. Namely, in the proposed solution, this provision is not decidently stated. The reason for this attitude stems from the fact that the jurisdiction of the inspector is prescribed by the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions of the RS. There are also certain proposals and corrections that we will propose in Article 3 and Articles 13 and 22. I don't think there's any need for me to talk more about them right now, but at a further stage of adoption, we're going to take advantage of this law's opportunity, and we're going to act in amendment. So, we as a club will support the adoption of this law and I suggest that the House accept this law in the first reading. Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3804	Thank you. Who's answering for a word? I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a vote. Who is "for" the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures? Thank you. Is there anyone “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. So dom unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda. Ad. 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers You got this bill. It was adopted at the House of Representatives in the first reading. I'm opening a discussion on principles. Who's answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. Let's get ready to vote. Who is "for" the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration? ‘Non’? "Sustained"? So, the House of Nations unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration in the first reading. Moving to the next item on the agenda, number 17. Ad. 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3808	A Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3809	I'm sorry, I can't see. I'm in a bad position. I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3810	... The Agency for Labour and Employment. [[microphone is not enabled]] So, there was a warning to include, here's Mr. Filipović's esteemed, here's my microphone. After agreeing with the thesis or the whole text, the working material on the drafting of this law, the Ministry, not explaining, left out that harmonised part of the text. They also had negative attitudes from individual members of the task force, so I think also from the Office of Law, as well as from the Ministry of Justice. The intention is to improve and strengthen institutions through this law, so in this case, the Agency for Labour and Employment and to make it more effective in its work within its competence. This is about first reading. We know that this law passed at the House of Representatives in the first reading, and I think today is a session of the Constitutional Commission, responsible for this law, and that they will discuss certain amendments submitted. So, we from the Bosniak People's Club will support this law in our first reading, but we will most likely go with the submission of appropriate amendments to the amendment phase for this law, of course following the results of the work of the Constitutional Commission and the House of Representatives. That's it, thank you very much. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3811	Thank you very much. Who's next to answer the word? There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Who is "for" the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for Labour and Employment? Does anyone have “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for Labour and Employment in First Reading. We're going to the 19th point. Ad. 19. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of BiH We also got the position of the committee in charge. We're having a discussion about principles. The House of Representatives passed this law in its first reading. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Niko. I'm closing the debate. Please, let's approach the vote. Who is "for" the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of BiH in First Reading? Is it “against ”? "Remained"? I find that the House of Nations unanimously adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to point 20. Ad.20. BiH presidency's decision to place professional military personnel in formation posts in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces to confirm
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3815	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I want to point out one comment on this decision that we have received and it refers to point 3, which is a security aspect of the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH. It is also true that the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in Article 4 states that it is necessary to highlight the security aspect of the participation of members of the Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions, and I think that this was done here, in one way, wrong. So, I expect, when it comes to this security aspect, to carry out an assessment of the security aspect in the place where our members of the Armed Forces are directed from BiH. What has been done here at this point 3, a security aspect has been identified, but in BiH. So, I think that in some of the following decisions, which we will certainly get here, that point must be processed far more quality, far better, with far more arguments, so that we here really have a real picture of the situation on the ground where members of the Armed Forces of BiH go, and that here at this point 3 is not processed. So, I expect that in some future times, in 53 future decisions, which will surely be here, this security aspect will be handled far better, far better, but from the position of members of the Armed Forces from BiH. Thank you, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3816	Thank you very much. Who's next to answer the word? I'm closing the debate. Let's approach the vote. Who is "for" the BiH presidency's decision on the participation of BiH Armed Forces members in the ISAF mission in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, thus confirming the decision. Who Is “against ”? We have no votes "against". "Sustained"? So, with 11 votes "for", one "against" and no "abstained" votes, the People's House confirmed the BiH presidency's decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces. Okay, so Mr. Šaraba was the only one who was restrained. Let's go to the next agenda point, that's point 22. Ad. 22. Decision of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs on amendments to the Regulation on the international activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly – to confirm You have received a decision from the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs on amendments to the Regulation on the international activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly – to confirm. The House of Representatives confirmed that decision. You've seen that it's a very exclusive possibility so far not to use private vehicles, so it's only official vehicles. This way opens that possibility, as Article 35 is deleted. On certain occasions, a private vehicle can also be used to travel abroad. So, you saw, in addition, you have that decision, that article 35. The rules on international activities of the Parliamentary Assembly deletes and this decision comes into force after confirming our home, because this one has already confirmed it. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. There's no argument. I'm closing the debate. Who is "for" to confirm this decision by the Administrative Commission. Is it “against ”? "Remained"? So the dom unanimously confirmed the Decision amending the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's international activities Regulation. 54 We move to point 23. Ad. 23. Report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the draft Immunity Law
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3819	Alma will.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3820	Ah, Alma will, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3821	So here, from the report signed by the chairman of the task force Mr. Šefik Džaferović, it turns out that we have come to one text of the Amendments and Immunity Law proposal, which actually supports the views of the Group of the Council of Europe's anti-corruption countries, are the views of GRECO. However, it was in the working group, since it was done by the Interresor Working Group who also worked on the Election Law, the Law on Conflict of Interest, it is a broader working group, we could not agree on some principles whether this law should regulate the issue of immunity or whether it should only regulate the issue of immunity procedures. So, what is now allowed by the Immunity Act, just so that little of this procedure is more elaborated and that the views of GRECO are incorporated. The Working Group has prepared this law, however, in the end, when we have drawn up this law, there is no unique position on its reference to parliamentary procedure. Some members of the task force don't want to sign this law. Mr. Šefik Džaferović refused to sign the law and release it into the House of Representatives procedure. I am suggested to refuse, because other members will not refuse, so perhaps I think it would be good for the House to assign a task force to bring its views into line and that the task, which is why it is set before them, ends and proposes to the House the text, agreed the text of the Amendment Law and the additions of the Immunity Act. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3822	Is there more? Who's answering for a word? Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3823	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So we got this very extensive material here, and I realized that this material, in addition to the effort it had made or had at all, came into a situation that it couldn't offer anything concrete, or they're looking for an answer to three essential questions here. They're asking for help, so they're asking for the help of this House of our People and the House of Representatives, at least that's how it is in this material, and that's how I realized it. Interresor working group members are looking for detailed guidance for further work, so that they can bring the text of the law into line within precisely defined guidelines. So, they're looking for guidelines for us, as members of this house, on these three specific issues that have been listed here, in terms of types of immunity, in terms of scope of immunity and in terms of procedures... So they failed to agree on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3824	Thank you very much. Mr. Šarab, just so you know, that's not the point of the agenda. What you're talking about, we've been thinking about last time. We have now received, meanwhile, a report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the construction of the Proposal for a Law on Immunity. I really don't know what to do in a situation where we have that several times an Interresor group is trying to meet. There was no quorum on November 13th, there was no quorum on November 21st. The members of the Interresor Working Group and the representatives of the OHR then held a debate, not as at the formal meeting. So, I really expect from our representatives who were in the Interresor Working Group to say exactly what they think is the exit, or Mrs. Čolo's proposal that Dom be in charge of agreeing – well, if you could, if the task force could agree, she would have agreed by now. So I'm asking that there be some more concrete, this way of working doesn't say that it's possible to get out of the situation we're in. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3825	The task force had long received a solution in which it had stopped working. So this task force doesn't work, she's got a solution not to work. And I don't really know, this was directed by Mr. Šefik Džaferović. We have made the bill, but the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Interresor Working Group is such that all solutions must be agreed by consensus. Consensus was reached only around one part of the solution. For other solutions, consensus could not be reached. We made this law. That law was delivered to me the other day to sign it, but it was me. I don't want to do it alone unless all the members of the task force want to. Mr. Džaferović will not be alone unless all members of the task force do. So I really don't know what to suggest next. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3826	Thank you, ma'am. I really don't know the way this Interresor Working Group works. I assumed he worked just like the other commissions. To adopt most of it. So if it's individually brought to people, let's say let's sign it, what kind of work is that? And one more thing to remind you of. I remember on that committee, when we discussed that agenda point, at that House session, that we said a new commission was being formed by the people's home and we suggested, I mean, Mr Filipović, you and more, I can't remember who it was.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3827	Mr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3828	Mr. Ivanic. So three members to extend the work on this bill. And we come, after so much time, we come, here's a report from 3.12.2008 that nothing in the meantime opens up space for us bigger than we had. I really don't know, someone would have to say what the proposal is and how it goes. If it cannot be agreed upon, and the consensus must make decisions, what is the vision, and how are we going to get out of this situation in which we are? Is anyone there? Are you, Mr. Zrna?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3829	I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3830	Here you are, and thank you for calling to help us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3831	I'm just because for the first time, it seems to me, in six years, nothing is clear to me here. I'm really telling you. I really suggest we take this as information, because basically this is nothing else, this is no invention, this is just information. To accept it as information and look for a final report and look for, be careful, so one of us can't ask for directions. It's really out of my mind. I ask you to accept my suggestion that we accept this as information and that we no longer wear out and hold back on this. This is nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3832	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivanic. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3833	Given the circumstances, at that time you couldn't.../microphone turned off/... I got involved, but someone's playing with the microphone. So, to remain the principle he was. If there's no consent, there's still a solution as it is. That's how we did it for the first time, and I think we made a decent law. I wish there were more changes, but there was no consent. But what it was, I think it went correctly. So I think that here we should receive information about knowledge and possibly assign the Interresor Group to respect their Rules of Procedure and come out with a bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3834	She's gone, Mladen.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3835	Well, if there's no Interresor group, then nothing. Please don't, then we're just getting information to know without conclusions and finding out that there's no law, no bill of law on... I wasn't involved, I wasn't in health at the time, so I wasn't fully involved either. Therefore, nothing, acknowledges and does not have this immunity law in front of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3836	Here, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3837	Oh, I don't know. You're making me take my word for it, and I didn't mean it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3838	I still haven't heard the suggestion of what to do with this and whether the Interresor group is behind what came here. Yeah, it's important for me to know if the Interresor group is behind this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3839	So can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3840	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3841	So, I'm forced to take my word for it, because here I am running to take Mrs. Dušanka's word. I think my colleague Čolo said a lot about this. We've had long-term work on this law. Troubles very much, decision-making consensus. Various options in which this should be regulated, in which context and to whom immunity applies. There we have practically separated completely, because we have different solutions in the environment and it seems to me that one good majority was for the 58 immunity to both the Presidency and the Members of Parliament and the Council of Ministers, so to the executive power. And there was a brake. There were disputes whether the ministers in their work would have immunity, so protection against persecution in criminal and civil responsibility, may counterpart Alma correct me if I am wrong, and that's where we parted. There have been some attempts to reconcile and bring some views closer, but there have also been exceptions and stubbornness in the work of the Interresor Group and the Interresor Group has split. And then a respected colleague, Džaferović, sat down and did what he did. He sent it to both home and home. This is quite, therefore quite correct in content, although it was there, it could have been a little bit more precisely in the context of where we split up, where we split up and where the Interresor Group stopped working. This Interresor group has been working on several legal solutions. Each of those solutions has experienced some fate and some happy ending, this is, we've completely, Mladen, parted. You were out of line at the time, you weren't, but we didn't reach an agreement, let's say, here, it's now a change and a supplement. That was not enough to change what we already had. Where's the way out of this? To understand this report and possibly (so the working group of this inter-resor group no longer has) return something and borrow a non-existent body, that is nonsense! To be in charge of the Council of Ministers or to put into the procedure of the Immunity Act, taking into account all the facts presented... and the conflicted views of the Interresor Group should do so, or that the Council of Ministers is going on a new adventure, forming a new inter-resor group to deal with this work. It seems wiser to me that, in accordance with the comparative solutions that exist in the environment, they release an article into parliamentary procedure and chew it in both homes. So I would be inclined to such a single conclusion of our home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3842	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. I'm closing the discussion. We can't vote, we're missing, we're having a problem with the Bosniak people's quorum, one is missing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3843	Ring the bell and let them in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3844	So, is there anyone else to report on this point? There isn't. I am concluding the debate and putting in the report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the draft immunity law to vote. Who Is For?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3845	Let's get to the bottom of this. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3846	But here, let's take it to the knowledge. So unanimous. Does anyone have “against ”? "Sustained"? So, the House of Nations unanimously took note of the report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the draft Immunity Law. We're going to 24. Ad. 24. Report on activities on the project “Autoput to Corridor Vc” and Plan of the following activities
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3847	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3848	...the first session, I guess, will be tolerated, I forgot to suggest a preliminary conclusion regarding point 23, which Mr Filipović has presented. We have a stenogram, but about to be obliged by the Council of Ministers to put in the parliamentary procedure of the Proposed Immunity Law, in line with similar circumstances. We'll take exactly how the proposal from the stenogram was defined. Who is "for" such a proposal to conclude? Does anyone have “against ”? "Sustained"? So we unanimously adopted this conclusion on point 23. Moving to point 24. Ad. 24. Report on activities on the project “Autoput to Corridor Vc” and Plan of the following activities You've reached the opinion of the committee in charge. The competent commission adopted the Report on activities on the project "Autoput to Corridor Vc" and the Plan of Next Activities and proposed its adoption to the People's House. The House of Representatives adopted this report. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? I'm closing the debate. Who is "for" this Activity Report on the project "Autoput on Corridor Vc". Does anyone have “against ”? 60 “Sustained”? So, the House of Nations unanimously adopted the Activity Report on the project "The Highway to Corridor Vc" and the Plan of Next Activities. Moving to point 25. Ad. 25. Appointment of the chairperson, deputy and members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals, as independent bodies of the BiH Police Structure (Proposed Ad hoc Joint Commission for the Implementation of the Procedure of the Designation of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3851	Well, on behalf of this Interresor group, since I'm here to present, I'm saying that a report and an addition of the reports were well written, very fluent and very consistent and that there was one concrete proposal, although it was not easy to come by. It was a proposal that was very much worked out, very much brought into line and finally brought into line with the compromises on the one hand, on the other and on the third hand. And my proposal is that this proposal adopted by this commission is adopted, because I think we would meet one of the obligations of reforming police structures. I have not been able to vote on candidates, but I am fully behind what this committee has done and my proposal is to support the election of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Appeals of Citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-26-0.u3852	Who's next? I'm closing the debate. We're approaching the vote. Who is the "for" proposal to appoint the chairman, deputy and members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals, as independent bodies of the BiH Police Structure (Proposed Ad hoc joint committee for the implementation of the procedure of the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Board of Appeal)? Who Is For? Who Is “against ”? Who is “abstained ”? And also, another alignment, so we have three, I think, three alignments for the next one, and we can't even end this point. We have ratifications from point 26 to point 34. I suggest we vote on it together. Is anyone there? Is anyone there? Is there anything wrong with that? No, I don't. Who is the "for" proposal for giving, who is for this proposal to give consent to ratification for agreements from points 26 to 34? Does anyone have “against ”? "Sustained"? Unanimity has been given consent to ratification. Just one more note, please. We have finished the session at 20 to 4 pm (15.40), and I have one piece of information to give you that on Thursday, 5.3., 26th session of the House of Peoples starting at 11.00 p.m. on the subject of the amendment to the BiH Constitution regarding Brcko. I think the calls have already been made. Here, today the calls will go. Thank you very much for your cooperation. I'm sorry for the mistakes that happened the first time. The seat is closed at 15.40 hours.
