ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25181	Please, Mr. Špirić, Jovičić, we're starting to work. Slavko, are the consultations ready. Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 50th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, once again, I welcome you all together. I am pleased to see you here today and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, of course, Ministers. According to service information, 36 MPs are present, we expect to include some more. The absence was justified by Mr. Todorović. So, the working conditions have been met. According to some practice we have introduced, I will give very briefly some information on the grounds of the initiatives and conclusions of this home, i.e. from the point of view of their realization. And I'm glad we have one number of ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who will hear what this house is still expecting from the Council of Ministers. So, when it comes to the report on the expenses of the Bureau for the past year, yesterday I got the information that he's finished and now it's a matter of technique, most likely we'll have him at the next session of the House of Representatives. Unfortunately, we still haven't received the material needed to discuss the agenda points, i.e. the agenda item initiated by Mr. Jovičić and Mr. Bahtić, regarding the economic and social situation, but here, we have held talks, and I appeal to the Council of Ministers to hurry because the subject of burning, so to speak, and the obligations of this house are certainly in this direction visible. Also, we have not yet received information from the Council of Ministers regarding the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković, as such is the conclusion. According to the information I have, it's past the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers has reached such a conclusion and as far as I know it has passed, but I still haven't received that information and I hope we get it. Last time I informed you that we have received the materials necessary to conduct the discussion on the activities in the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Priorities of the European Partnership documents and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Interim Agreement and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and, therefore, the Interim Agreement and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. These materials will be considered at a joint session of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly as soon as conditions are obtained. So we've already passed it on to the commission phase. 2 And the final announcement is concerning the debate which is about the initiative of Mr. Raguž and Zorić, and the conclusion which came from this debate. Yesterday, we agreed on an extended college way to approach the realization of the conclusion, because it is seeking participation and an extended college of the House, seeking the participation of the Constitutional Legal Commission and seeking co-operation with the House of Peoples. But here, we agreed yesterday, and that will happen on the 8th of this month, and I hope that this process will result in what the promoter expected by proposing this conclusion. So, so much for this necessary information. What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25182	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25183	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25184	I thank you, Chairman. It is about this kind of communication with Parliament, meaning previous information. I, as an MP, is almost a year old, proposed a agenda item Information on the readiness of BiH institutions to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. This was passed by the Commission for European Integration, unanimously supported, and given in the procedure there. I kept my mouth shut for a few sessions. I didn't want to urinate on that. I see that when you make commitments, there are no more obligations. The latest information was that it was given to the Council of Ministers to make information, but I want it to be, that information that was to be kept as an obligation and that at one of the sessions, the sooner the better, it was discussed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25185	It's obviously my failure, but here, you could have told me a few sessions ago, you shouldn't have kept your mouth shut, but no problem. So obviously, it's my fault. I'll make sure we fix it. So that's when it comes to introductory notes and information. And now a few notes regarding the agenda. So you could see for yourself the differences in the call you received and this call that I hope you found on the benches. I'll try to explain as soon as possible. Unfortunately, for procedural reasons, or business reasons, we were in a situation at the request of the commission to remove points 3, 4 and 24. It is therefore the proposal for a Law on Public Procurement, the Proposal for a Law on Posting and the Report on the Labour of the Ombudsman, by making the House of Representatives known on the Proposal for a Law on Postages, as it is a second extension. There's no need to tell you what commissions were looking for, you know, according to the content of this law. Yesterday, we had consultations with the chairman of the Council of Ministers and mutual consultations and the College and the Enlargement College of the House and we agreed not to discuss today the Action Plan for meeting the European Commission's recommendations on the visa liberalisation mapa and the BiH Council of Ministers' 2008 Work Report. So, if you followed the opinion of the Committee on the Council of Ministers' Work Report, 3 you could see that a number of committees expressed observations in the model and manner in which the Report was made. It has also been indicated that for some segments of the Council of Ministers' work we do not have reports. The Commission treated this report on the work of the Council of Ministers in different ways, and we discussed the subject yesterday with the chairman of the Council of Ministers and agreed that all the opinions of the Commission and the rest, which were not available to the Council of Ministers, were likely not to be synchronised by monitoring the work of the committees when it came to this report, so that the Council of Ministers will review all of our observations from the Commission and prepare any corrections to the report and ensure the absolute presence of the complete Council of Ministers, which was not possible for today's session. And these were the reasons why the Expansive College was being managed to do as we did, that is, to consider this item on the 15th, with the presence of the entire Council of Ministers. These days should be used to communicate with each other, to explain what was thought, what was expected, etc. It is similar with this Action Plan regarding visa liberalisation. We will also have an Interresor Group head and, of course, resolution ministers who are in any way related to this issue. It is possible that by then, after monitoring took place in March by an EU expert team, we may also have their findings, or opinions, so that we can complete materials, or assumptions for a quality debate that we would come out of with certain conclusions and directions of further activities. We're going to try that session not to burden it as much as possible, so focus goes towards these points of the agenda. It's about those two agenda points. You've seen that some points have been reformed. For those for whom we have received negative opinions, it was added with the opinion of the commission. We have also included in the agenda changes in the committees resulting from the fact that there has been a change in MPs. So it's a SNSD MP. We opened the possibility yesterday at the Extended College if any club had ambition or initiative in terms of change to do so. Unfortunately, I find that it was not there, so we only have today, in fact, a membership replacement: instead of the man/lady who left, we insert the man who came into this House of Representatives. And in the end, you saw that at the last point, we added four other agreements, or two agreements, and two agreements to give consent to ratification and you got, hopefully, the opinion of our commission on all these agreements, as delivered yesterday to you and the Opinion on these floods in Pop's field, the opinion of the committee in charge. Here, that's, I hope I wasn't too big. That's what I thought you needed to be told. So, you've received the current draft agenda for today's bench session and I'm opening a debate on today's 50th session of the House of Representatives. Here you go. Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25186	Gentlemen, the chairman, the honourable members of the Council of Ministers, guests, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to launch an initiative, meaning, in accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure 4 of the House of Representatives and this is how I meet my colleagues, but also the public. In terms of the sea of various political initiatives, I will propose an initiative, as my colleagues from the SDP would say, for a man. So, one initiative that is, in fact, trying to solve some of the questions of ordinary people, I can say, and the poorest layers of society. In this regard, I will now read the exact name of that agenda point that I propose, which is: Considering the situation and measures to improve the situation of BiH citizens who were employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia, and in the period from 1991 to 1995 fired from work or expelled from BiH. Of course, I wouldn't elaborate now, so we'll have a chance to discuss the agenda, so I wouldn't go into the width. I just want to say that the motive why I launched this initiative is, above all, an attempt to help these citizens who are joined by two associations in BiH, who, of course, because of the lack of financial resources are not able to lead the elementary court processes in Croatia to protect their rights that are threatened with them, I said earlier in the name of the agenda point in which way. I would ask the College to deliver this initiative in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to the Commission. In doing so, of course, I have proposed to provide, as part of the preparation, information from the Council of Ministers and these two associations, as well as to invite representatives of these associations to the session when the debate on this agenda is held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25187	Of course, Mr. Novaković, the College will follow the Rules of Procedure, but I understand that you are proposing a agenda point, now I understand. So it's still an initiative. You needed her as part of the parliamentary issues, but it's not a problem. You deliver this initiative, we will put it in the process, get the Commission's opinion and deal with it further as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. We're talking about the agenda. Please, is there a debate on the agenda yet? I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Allow me, for the record, to establish the agenda of today's 50th session. 1. Approval of minutes 48 and 49 of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliamentary issues; 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Police Officers (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security; 5 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Border Police (first reading); 10. Proposal for a law on border control (first reading); 11. Proposal for a Financial Lising Act (first reading); 12. Proposal for a framework law on the basis of the scientific activities and coordination of the internal and international research co-operation of BiH (first reading); 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer of the House of Peoples, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 14. Declaration by the House on the Request of the Commission for Transport and Communications for the prolonging of deadlines for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on the Postales of BiH; 15. Proposal for a revised Bosnia and Herzegovina strategy for the implementation of Annex VII Dayton Peace Agreement (the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH); 16. Work and Business Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2007 Radio Television; 17. Financial Business Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Radio-Television 2007; 18. Report on the work of the 2008 House of Representatives Commission (a) Constitutional Legal Commission, (b) Commission on Foreign Affairs, (c) Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, (d) Commission on Finance and Budget, (e) Commission on Transport and Communications, (f) Commission on Gender Equality, 19. Report on the work of the Joint Commissions for 2008 (a) Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH, (b) Joint Security and Intelligence Commission on the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, (c) Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, (d) Joint Committee on European Integration, (e) Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, (f) Joint Commission on Human Rights, Child Rights, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, 20. Report on the work of the Board of Appeal for 2008; 21. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Public Television System of BiH; 22. Information on the floods in Popo's field, Krupa River and Hut's mud area (porter of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations); 23. Changes in membership in the House Committees; 24. The Agreement on Scientific Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro, b) The Agreement on the financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the Cross-border Programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro for 2007 on the basis of instruments for pre-accession assistance, component II – Cross-border Co-operation, c) The Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Korea concerning the loan from the Fund for Economic Cooperation, d) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on International Road Transport of Travellers and Goods, (e) the Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, the Republic of Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia and the Mission for the Interim Administration of the UN in Kosovo, in the Name of Security and Security of the Security of Kosovo Agreement (EU). So it's the agenda of today's 50th session. Let's go work on the agenda. Point 1. is Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes of the 48th and 49th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25191	Thank you, Your Honor. My fellow Members, members of the Council of Ministers, media and guests, I warmly welcome you all. I received an answer to my question: "Is the Council of Ministers planning to locate one of the newly formed state institutions based in Bihac, in the centre of the Unsanican Canton?" I'm happy with the answer. They notified and sent a letter to all ministries in the Council of Ministers and asked for information on whether they were planning to propose a seat for one of BiH's newly-formed institutions in the UN-San canton. I thank you for your response, and I will follow the realisation and the Council of Ministers to make sure that Krajina gets at least one state institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25192	Halid Genjac, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25193	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, esteemed guests, I asked the Constitutional Court of RS: 'Why do they use in their work procedures containing anti-constitutional provisions?' And I got an answer saying that the Constitutional Court unanimously concluded that they were not obliged to answer my question, referring to Article 151. A Rules of Procedure that really speaks about the issues of the Council of Ministers, ministers and agencies. 8 However, I am truly surprised by the fact that the Constitutional Court of RS did not look at the Rules of Procedure in full, in which Article 156 states that MPs can ask questions to all other entities and that the answer is delivered in writing. So, I think it's a unanimous review of the Constitutional Court, and I will, of course, repeat the question because of this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25194	I don't have any more complaints to answer parliamentary questions. If I understand correctly, what I see now is new parliamentary issues. So we move on to new parliamentary issues. Let's take it in a row, seliti Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25195	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, I have one parliamentary question for the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. At the session in which the Water Act was abolished, we asked that this law remain in force until the 'Wealth Water Rules' were adopted, because we were told that it would be adopted as soon as possible. I note that BiH is the only country in Europe that does not have this rule on natural spring and mineral waters. So we have a completely unregulated situation in this area on the Bosnian Herzegovina market. This is of course used by manufacturers of these products from the environment. At the same time, these producers have singled out certain provisions that do not virtually prevent the export of source and mineral waters from BiH from being incorporated into their same rules. We enter a time when water is the most precious resource in the world, and we,... which could export water to the world, have allowed ourselves to import water in the unique and, above all, unnecessary quantities, according to those reports, about 100 million converting marks. The question is, "Why do we still not have the rule in BiH, or when will we get the Regulation on natural spring and mineral waters? I note that they must have provisions reciprocally laid down in the same regulations from countries in the environment." I'm asking the Ministry of Trade and Economic Relations for an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25196	Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers and other guests, I welcome you all. I have two questions and a proposal for one conclusion. Here, I'll start with the pies first. The first question was addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which reads: "Is the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of BiH, taking steps 9 towards the conclusion of a tax relief contract... for BiH citizens with the United States? If not, when are you planning to start this issue?" I have an explanation here, because of rationality, I'm not going to read it, I have another contribution here so I can see what it's all about. The second question is: 'What are the reasons that BiH is 119th in the world on terms of business if we know that there is no rapid country development without investment? Will a path map be created that will lead us to a more favourable business environment?' And the third question in this set: "How many registered companies per thousand BiH residents, how many in the countries of the region, how many in EU countries?" Let's deal with this statistic. And the conclusion. As you know, 26. 3. was held by the Management Board of the Peace Implementation Council and made, in my opinion, quite good conclusions and recommendations. I think that we should take this text more seriously, and in this sense I am initiating the initiative to declare the following conclusion: 'The legislative and executive authorities in BiH are in charge of making their own and action plans for implementing recommendations from the Communications of the Management Committee for the Implementation of Peace 26. 3. 2009 'years.' I'm also in favor of this communiqué here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25198	Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25199	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked at one of the meetings the Foreign Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in order to get an answer: 'What has the BiH State, or the Foreign Ministry, taken to protect the citizens of BiH towards whom investigations are being conducted in the Republic of Serbia or other countries?', given the fact that we have the view of the BiH Prosecutor's Office that the same cases lead to investigations in BiH and that it has the capacity to bring it to an end and bearing in mind the fact that the minister of justice in the RS is announcing the arrests of those on the same charges from Belgrade." I ask the Council of Ministers, and let the Council of Ministers appoint the ministries that have the authority to answer this question, and: "What has the BiH state done to protect the citizens of BiH and their human rights?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25200	Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25201	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, I welcome you. I have two short questions. 10 The first is the Ministry of Defence and the Director of the Intelligence and Security Agency: ‘How many cases have been recorded so far of unauthorized person requests to institutions for the exemption of certain documentation from your institutions and for what purpose? What measures and actions have you taken to avoid unauthorized access to documentation related to events from the direct past of BiH, from your jurisdiction?" Another question to the Council of Ministers: "How long has the Council of Ministers been convened in the previous time and in which institution has retired officials or deputies and returned to the same jobs or advisory positions?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25202	Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25203	Thank you. Here, I've already told the technical staff, the chair's been totally me since I got here, I can't sit. Transfer me to Zlatko Lagumdžija if he's free. One question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I will again ask the Council of Ministers for the third time: 'When will the Council of Ministers prepare a point at the conclusion of this Parliament and the College only... to hold a plenary session of this House with a single point of recession, a global financial crisis and its effects on the BiH economy and measures'. Believe me, citizens and the public expect us to be on the street every day and in every place they ask. Me and my colleague, Jovičić, we suggested it. It's already half a year old. I know the Council of Ministers held a few sessions, brought some measures, but that's not enough. We seem to be the main address of those who chose us, and that's why we need to discuss here a little bit and see these measures. I, too, propose an initiative to vote today in this House and put the Council of Ministers in charge. My initiative reads: 'That the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Civil Affairs makes a decision or conclusion that BiH's football team from the reserve fund and the sports grant is paid 1000.000 KM. As you know, the BiH football team achieves excellent results, the euphoria is throughout BiH, it is celebrated across all major BiH cities. They are in a very difficult financial situation. When we look at the report on how the reserve funds are being used and we see that they get a significantly higher amount and those who have no results, I think the BiH football team should get one. We're still state deputies here, it's the least we can do for our football team. Believe me, she's the best ambassador in this country, best promoted by this country. In good recession and economic crisis, all BiH citizens, I hope at least everyone, at least briefly forgets about these problems and I think this initiative should be supported today and that we also vote on it... for the Council of Ministers to make a real move. I think it's in the interest of all BiH citizens, and we're here." That's it, thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25204	Maybe we should wait tonight, and we'll see. So, Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25205	I thank you, Chairman. Allow me
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25206	May I have your attention, please, let's get on with it. Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25207	Let me ask the next two questions today. The first issue is to the president of the Central Election Commission of BiH: As more than 1.3 million BiH citizens live in the world according to UNHCR data, a report on the number of voters registered for voting through mail for the 2008 local elections delivered by the Election Commission shows that the total number of applications received for the post office vote is 41,689 applications. Of these, 8,011 applications were denied for various reasons. I ask the question and ask for information from the Central Election Commission: 'How many addresses did the Central Election Commission and the latest general elections and local ones, mean 2006 and 2008, send voting requests through mail and how does the CEC receive information about the addresses of our citizens' residence abroad?' The second question is, "What is the explanation of the Central Election Commission that out of the 1.3 million of our citizens' registered voice mail 41,000 or 0.7%?" And the third question also relates to the CEC: "What does the CEC do to get the actual number of our non-BiH citizens with the right to vote by post, and that every BiH citizen who has a residence outside BiH is given one of the basic human rights to choose, be elected, and have access to the electoral process?" The second question is the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which refers to the Agreement, so-called Atta-carnet agreement. This question has already been asked here once, however, there is still no answer to it today, as far as I am informed, and this is about the Agreement, the International Agreement on the basis of the Customs Convention, which replaces the national customs document
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25208	Please listen to me, please listen. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25209	...export, import and transit of goods. I was approached by artists requesting to ask if BiH had launched a process of joining the Ata-Carnet agreement. If not, when will this significant inter-carrying agreement be signed?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25210	Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25211	I have one question for the Council of Ministers, of course they will seek help from other institutions if they need it. 'What do BiH institutions do to illuminate the crime in and after 1945, committed by partisans and communists, with particular emphasis on the identification of victims and criminals in the recently found mass graves (the tombs are under alleged signs) in Vrgorec and the Slovenian Barbarin trench mine near the village of Huda Jama near Laško?' The pictures we've seen in recent days and weeks, which came from Slovenia, more specifically from Barbara's trench mine, were terrible. These images were also startled by those who wanted to hide and deny the crimes, misdemeanors of the communist regime and followers, and by such ideologies, also condemned by the Council of Europe. It has been announced that the victims in the mine and Hrvat, soldiers and civilians, have upset the entire public in the Republic of Croatia. The site was visited by senior officials of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia. Among others, Mr. Mladen Bajić, the chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, visited the place in the lateness of his Slovenian counterpart Barbara Brezigar. Mr. Mladen Bajić said, quote: "I knew it would be terrible, but the sight that awaited me was terrible," adding that Croatian authorities were also investigating the circumstances of this crime. With great probability, it can already be concluded that most Croatian soldiers and civilians were included in the cave, but also Slovenian natives and German officers. They were bathed with lime, although some were still alive and in the end it was blocked by a concrete blanket, wanted to be confused with the truth. Interestingly, no one in BiH has wondered how much is in this and such pits of soldiers and civilians from BiH. The second crime with a much smaller number of victims, the one from Vrgorec, is even more related to BiH, as all victims are from Ljubusko. These two cases are only part of a crime committed by the communist regime after the end of World War II. They killed both soldiers and civilians, and women and children, and old men and powerless ones, and talked about a bright future. Their fate was immediately darkness and, unfortunately, for all the nations, it lasted 45 years. I wish these victims would get at least so much attention in BiH to identify themselves, to identify criminals and, if not convicted, to at least get to know the truth. I believe it's time to keep quiet about those victims behind us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25212	Rifat Dolić. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25213	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have two parliamentary questions today. The first question is the finance minister at the BiH Council of Ministers. A few days ago, an official of the ministry said on a television show that BiH in 2008 had paid an additional 18m euros or about 35m KM in favour of approved loans, which were not used on behalf of regular and tight interest. Listening to this as a man, as an economist and as an MP to this house, I am twice as shocked. First, I am shocked by the fact that this kind of thing can be declared by the deputy finance minister in one state. Secondly, I'm shocked by what I've heard, wondering if it's possible for responsible people in this country to allow themselves so much irresponsibility and comotion that approved loans, for which due repayment or grace periods run, are not being used, and for that, pay such a big regular and tightening interest. My question is: "Is it true that BiH in 2008 has made an additional 18m-euro commitment for approved loans that are not in use on behalf of regular and criminal interest for BiH and, if this is at least close to the truth, who is responsible for it, what have you done and what are you doing, or what will you do to the person responsible for such inadmissible behaviour?" The second question is to the UN-San canton and the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office in Bihać: 'What stage of the investigation is it and what until now have you done in the investigation and the case of the discovery of the laboratory and plastics in a private business facility in the town of Slapnica near Velika Kladude in which more than 2,000 stems or pots of planted Indian hemp were found at the end of last year?' I am moved to this question by publishing several news reports that freedom has been deprived or criminal charges have been filed against the breeders of this drug that revealed 17 or 32 hemp stems, compared to what was discovered in Klamuse, a plantation. The second reason why I ask this question is very indicative information from the UN-San canton MUP that hemp shareholders were also high officials of the MUP or their friends in this plantation, and that this is the reason that not only the more determined action and investigation is missing but that the case is being covered up. For such suspicions is also a symptomatic cleanup at the police station in Velika Kladhua, which followed the discovery of this plantation, where those who worked harder in the initial investigation in this case were transferred from the Police Station. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25214	Denis Bećirović. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25215	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, media representatives, members of the Council of Ministers, I have two parliamentary questions and would like to request an answer today at a session in oral form. The first question I ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Nikola Špirić: 'The state of corruption in the country according to the assessments of numerous international NGOs has reached a worrying scale with the presence of the most socially dangerous and economically harmful forms of corruption. It is evident that the current strategic frameworks for the fight against corruption have not yielded the necessary and satisfactory results, so at one of the previous sessions, we found that the strategy that was in force from 2006 to 2009 was not realised even with 50%. I remind my colleagues at the House of Representatives that more than a year ago, we adopted the SDP Club initiative unanimously here at the House of Representatives of the Initiative, which asked the Council of BiH to deliver to the Parliamentary Assembly a new strategy to fight organised crime and corruption within three months. And I remind you that we voted unanimously, both the position and the opposition in this house. But here, it's been over a year and the Council of Ministers hasn't delivered that strategy yet. So today I ask the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers to explain to all of us at the House of Representatives, I tell all of us because we voted together, why has the Council of Ministers not yet realised the unanimously adopted Initiative in the House of Representatives that asked the BiH Council to deliver a strategy to fight organised crime and corruption in BiH within three months?" So that's a question for the chairman of the Council of Ministers. And the second question (also for this question I ask for an oral answer today at the session) is asked by the Minister of Human Rights at the Council of Ministers of BiH, and the question is: "What has the BiH Council of Human Rights done in the last six months with the aim of helping a BiH citizen, Ilija Jurišić, who will be in Belgrade prison for two years now?" Given that his health is becoming increasingly difficult, I would also ask the Human Rights Minister to tell us what his latest findings are regarding the alleged violation of the BiH citizen's human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25216	Of course, there is the possibility of obtaining and seeking an oral answer in the Rules of Procedure, but I would ask you to briefly formulate questions to deliver them in order to complete the parliamentary questions, just a moment, just a moment, to stick to the Rules of Procedure. So, the one who asks is obliged by Article 153 to briefly formulate the questions and deliver them to both the one and the other subject that is being asked and, of course, I hope we get an answer. 15 And we will go further, Sead Jamakosmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25217	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will ask two questions. The first question is for the Foreign Ministry... which I already asked once, but I didn't get an answer. It is that about 30,000 BiH citizens in the Netherlands cannot achieve quality and meet their needs for communication with the country's home via the DKP, because there are no consuls; it comes from Belgium. 'When will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs arrange for our citizens to receive a satisfactory and quality service, or will the consul in the Netherlands be a permanent character?' The second question is the Ministry of Civil Affairs. It is the following: 'Is it put into operation how we get our citizens' home numbers from abroad by electronic means, which has not been the case so far, and therefore the legal conditions have been created?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25218	Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25219	I, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, have a brief question from the Ministry of Education and Science of Canton of Sarajevo: 'When and what will be the answer to the request of the University of Sarajevo Medical School and concerning the regulation of the status of teachers of the University of Sarajevo Medical Faculty, employees of the Clinical Centre of the University of Sarajevo, given the specificities of the legal arrangements of the teachers employed under the Law on Higher Education adopted by the Assembly and Canton of Sarajevo?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25220	Mr. Jukić, are you in favor of a replica or, Mr. Jukić? _______(?) Wrong. It's a mistake, isn't it? Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25222	Thank you, Chairman. 16 Fellow Members and fellow Members, chairman of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, is not about the Congress of the SDA. If I were to ask the business question 'if there is a listening and monitoring of MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, members of the BiH presidency, appointed officials in the Council of Ministers', I would certainly get the answer not to be followed and not to listen. But I will still ask that question, and if the answer is yes, I demand a detailed explanation based on whose warrant and for what reason? At the same time, I want to say that... in accordance with the Intelligence and Security Agency Act, I will refer the request myself, but to this question I would like to refer the following to, which is: 'What do these but also other competent institutions do, do, or do they intend to prevent illegal listening and tracking of those persons?' In fact, it seems to me that there are a lot of indications in BiH that according to the law that we adopted here and the equipment that we have obtained, donated and installed, someone illegally manages and handles, but also that representatives of some embassies and persons, so we have indications that they are doing it illegally. I want it from our institutions to get an answer on what seems to be preventing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25223	No Niko's Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25224	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, respected chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I will ask three questions short to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees: 'How much has been privatised in BiH by pre-war housing rights holders and how many of these apartments have been sold after the purchase of the apartment?' The second question is, "How many are those who are of 1. 1. 1992 to 31. 12. In 1995, for any reason, they lost their jobs in public enterprises, power companies and their organisational units, telecoms and their organisational units, post offices and their organisational units, and how many after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, i.e., of 1. 1.1996 allowed to return to work in these public enterprises?' And the third question is: 'What is the same number of persons who, in municipalities, or municipal administrations, courts, prosecutors and the Ministry of Interior and its organisational units, have lost their jobs in this period and what is the number of those who are after 1. 1. In 1996, allowed to return to work in prewar places of life, or working relationship? Thank you very much. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25225	I don't have any more reports. I ask the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, who has expressed his willingness to answer this question immediately. I hope that question is formulated and delivered, but here seems to have taken a long time. Here, the chairman, he remembered the questions obviously.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25226	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished ministers, esteemed guests, was prepared and a written reply from fellow Bećirović as the issue was raised. This is the topic I have been working on for a long time at the Council of Ministers, and I want to say as long as there is a Strategy for the fight against corruption and organised crime, which was adopted in July 2006, with the Action Plan for the period until July 2009. It's a current strategy. We appreciate, of course, that EU partners appreciate the need for a revised strategy, that the existing strategy does not create enough space for an effective fight against corruption and organised crime. I made one decision and sent it to the European Commission. We don't want anything to be in collegiate, because they monitor. These days we've just had a monitoring team, they've been begging us to wait, they've sent suggestions for the decision we've proposed, so to form an interresor working group that will work on a revised strategy and action plans, propose possibly new legal solutions. So we're in that decision that we suggested we give a 60-day deadline. So we are aware of these obligations, we are working on it, so we agree with the European Commission, and that could be the answer. The strategy exists and we appreciate that it does not create enough space for an effective fight and we are now entering a revised strategy with a proposal for amendments and legislative solutions and with action plans. So that's the decision made by the Council of Ministers at last session, last Thursday, we are now turning into an operationalisation of the decision. I also want to say that it is a decision that is in line with the European Commission's office in Sarajevo, and yet it is in line with seeing the Monitoring Team and they think it could be a decision that affects what standards are in EU member states. You will also get a written answer, but here we are aware, we are working on it, these are major challenges and, of course, major problems in the assessment of the situation in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25227	The second question was the Minister of Human Rights. Here is Minister of Human Rights Mr. Halilović, ready to give an oral answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25228	Dear Chairman, respected representatives, respected guests, as far as this issue of Mr. Jurišić is concerned, it has been going on for a long time in the unwanted, so to speak, the frames, in an unsolicited way. The ministry was in a position to give its opinion on this on several occasions. However, I must say that, first of all, this issue is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and of the one and the other country. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, in this 18-year-old case, can only intervene in the event of torture against the one against whom this proceedings are being conducted. We have expressed public and by letter to the competent institutions our concern about Mr. Jurišić's poor health and the need for him to be free, with freedom leading this process. We have the department, therefore, the Human Rights and Refugees Sector, which above all... follows this issue and any procedure if it wants to go further in demand, appeal, as regards Mr. Jurišić's status, past these usual responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice and of one and other countries – that it must come at the request or Mr. Jurišić or members of his family. These are the procedures and the Ministry will in all of these – lawyers etc. - and the Ministry will do whatever it is asked of them in all these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25229	Here's the way... A comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25230	...to comment on both the answer. When it comes to this anti-corruption strategy, on the one hand, after the Council of Ministers' chairman's reply, I would like to show satisfaction that the BiH Council of Ministers has embarked on this process of drawing up this strategy. And I think that's good news. On the other hand, I want to show dissatisfaction with the fact that this business has not been done before, especially in those deadlines as concluded by the House of Representatives. When it comes to this other issue of BiH citizen Ilija Jurišić, I want to say, but that is nothing unknown, that it is primarily one great human injustice against that man, and then everything else. I would therefore not comment further on this response, but in this brief comment, I would ask the Minister of Human Rights to, together with the Minister of Justice, if possible, these two ministries of delivery in the next 15 days of one complete information, to call it, the case of Ilija Jurišić, from his arrest on 11 May to today – here 11 years since he was arrested – to have a review, and perhaps afterwards, ministers, and with your assistance and minister of justice and here among the MPs, to classify it as one of the points of the agenda, because it certainly deserves the House of Parliament of BiH, and especially Ilija Jurišić, to consider this issue and not to see so much of human injustice as it seems to this man. So I took the opportunity to suggest in this comment one suggestion to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25231	Here, I conclude that this point of the agenda. Short information on the content, on how to work at today's session. At 1:00 a.m., there'll be a break by 2:00 p.m. for lunch. We'll be working till 6:00. If we don't do a full agenda, we'll continue tomorrow. And here, we have a chance to do that. 19 Let's go, point 3. Ad.3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment (the second reading) You received a report from the Commission on 27 March 2009. The Commission adopted the draft law together with five amendments unanimously. At the plenary stage, Slavko Jovičić submitted five amendments that he defended in the plenary phase. I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for Labour and Employment (second reading). Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25233	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, it is a law which we have been conducting for a little longer discussion within the Commission. We also asked for an extension of the deadlines and here, in the end, all this effort paid off, because at the last session of the Constitutional Commission we are together with the Minister of Civil Affairs and Proposers of our Amendments
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25234	Please listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25235	we have crossed the practically complete text of this law, crossed all amendments and where there has been agreement between the Minister of Civil Affairs and the Proposer of the Amendments we have classified as amendments to the Commission, and these five amendments are actually the result of such work. That's why I suggest that if colleague Jovičić can withdraw his amendments, it would be good. We have crossed the full text and this is what we can offer as, I would now say, the joint work of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, i.e., Minister and Constitutional Commission. I suggest that this law be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25236	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25237	The Honorable Chairman, also chaired by the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs and media, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, so the meaning of the investment of these amendments was that in almost similar agencies and this very structure and the very activities of these agencies (and of course I welcome the involvement of Minister Sredoje Nović who helped to bring this into line) I was really not from the whole text – although they had the time to agree on the amendments – I saw why the disputed were 20 amendments, when, for example, in other agencies such as the Statistical Agency, a similar organisation in the selection of people in charge, etc., so that I am not ready to give up these amendments because they are actually improving this text, and they do nothing, I would say, bad to this law and some fundamental changes so that this law today would not get support in another reading at the House of Representatives. That is why I will renew my five amendments to the plenary phase, in accordance with Article 118(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the amandman I. in Article 2. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for Labour and Employment of BiH to delete point g) to add the text of 'Bosnian Herzegovic citizens abroad' in the same point (h) behind the word 'employment', and the other... text to be deleted. So in the same Article point m) to rephrase that it reads 'in collaboration with entity employment services in...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25238	Jovičić, we've got the amendments, we've got the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25239	Do you have any amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25240	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25241	All right, then don't let me read them. So, what's the point? You can see from the Explanatory, when you have the whole text, not to repeat, but there are entity employment agencies, there is a Department of Employment of the Brcko District, we can't cancel it with any law. I just wanted the BiH-level Agency to collect various data so that they would be the first, as I would say, co-workers to get data from without being this new agency that we've set up just some statistical data collection that's going to get at the expense of their own information. If there are already those agencies and when they are envisaged, then this agency would, in that sense, mainly be doing the other thing very briefly, about the election of these deputies. It is clear that in all agencies and institutions, the Director transfers powers when he is absent and prevented from working, to transfer to his associates. Who will be his associates but his deputies?- I'm sorry. So already this structure, I said, exists at the Statistics Agency and other agencies, if I didn't list them because it wasn't the subject of the investment of these amendments, and I didn't really see anything that would be controversial if we didn't pass this law. That's why I'm pleading for these amendments to be accepted, no matter what we say, on the Constitutional Commission where I've been invited and, thank you, delayed, asked for extra time, so they're not going to do anything to not pass the law today. They will actually improve, and then we will meet those basic criteria to accept the possibility of the current constitutional arrangement and to recognise entity employment agencies, i.e. seducing the Employment Agency in the Brcko District. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25242	I don't have any more reports. I am concluding the debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment in Second Reading. Moving to point 4. Ad.4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures (also applicable to the law in second reading) The Commission adopted the draft law and adopted two amendments that became an integral part of the law. In the plenary phase, let me remind you, you have, the amendments to the Milorad Živković Dam, three amendments and Drago Kalabić, one amendment. So, I'm opening a debate. Here comes the chairman of the Constitutional Commission again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25244	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, and this law has been the subject of careful analysis of the Constitutional Commission, especially in the part concerning amendments tabled by distinguished counterpart Milorad Živković. On the occasion of these amendments, we again with the Justice Ministry representative, Assistant Minister Mustafa Bisić, have crossed the practically complete text of the law, and within the Commission have agreed these two amendments, which are listed in the Report. And that's why I'm asking for the law to be supported, of course with these two amendments that are in the Constitutional Commission Report. I would ask my colleague, Živković, if he can give up his amendments, because this matter concerning the BiH Court has been clarified on the Commission. You were not present at the Commission's session, this really applies to the BiH Court, according to the law, and there is no need to renew it in each member. It was nicely explained to us there at the session of the Commission, so it comes from the law. So the essence is already contained in this law. As for Mr Drago Kalabić's amendments, I see there are now some new amendments that have not been made to the Commission. I don't know what that is and what that can be about, so I'd like that thing to be explained a little bit. And this thing is when it comes to Article 168a) carefully read several times at the Commission's session itself. Mr. Novaković insisted on this issue and we have done something about it in this report. I submit to the House with the Commission's report that this law is passed. It is an important law that has spent a lot of time and work by the Ministry of Justice and Mr. Bisić, assistant minister. Thank you very much. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25245	I've missed, I've been obliged to say that this is a new aspect of Article 118(3). Here, it was the basis for the amendments that were not the subject of the debate on this committee to be here today. But here we go. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25246	Thank you. We're good, but we're not that good. I'm going to defend these three amendments here today, and I'm just going to try to explain them for the simple reason why I think we have two laws. Previously, which you have heard what can be fixed in the law itself and more technical nature of alignment with the Constitution of BiH than a fundamental remark, and this law, which is broadly in line. I accept that the Constitutional Commission has adopted parts of my amendments and I want to explain why I repeated these three amendments. Namely, in amandman I., where it is crucial that the Court, which is a capital letter, adds only BiH behind it and removes any doubt that it is the Court of BiH and not any other court in BiH; although it is only a clarification of this member, I see no reason not to do so, so that tomorrow we do not work an explanation of the norm, that someone would not ask us or some others have any inconvenience, and the reason for this attitude stems from the fact that the jurisdiction of the inspector is prescribed by the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions of the RS. In amandman II.. when it comes to the Independent Commission, jurisdiction should exclusively be referred to persons who maintain the sentence of prison and the measure of detention which has been imposed or designated by the BiH Court of Justice. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions has regulated the issue of the existence and jurisdiction of the Independent Commission. And, I think that amendment goes in the clarification of just a member, no fundamental change. And, in amandman III.. It means the transfer of detained persons regardless of whether it is a security reason or a need for treatment and it is known that it is within the jurisdiction of the BiH Ministry of Justice, if it concerns the Court of Justice, and that it is within the jurisdiction of the entity, or cantonal ministry, if it is lower levels of government. Therefore, I would ask you to clarify and remove any doubt as to which court is concerned to add this clarification and adopt these three amendments, in order to have a law that is not otherwise disputed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25247	Replica, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25248	You see, Mr. Živković, I said nothing is disputed. So it is as you stated in your amendments to the law. I'm saying what I'm saying, so it goes into the 23 stenogram here, and it's also a document that follows this law. That's how it is. It is the Court of BiH. The law, when written, is written according to certain rules. So there are rules for the making of laws and in this law the Court and the court is written in a big and small letter at the beginning of the law itself, and it is consistently implemented through the complete text of this law. And when you look at this norm and the explanations from the opening part of the law that is not the subject of these amendments, it is seen that it is the Court of BiH. It's not possible to read it differently. Don't make a freak out of the law now. If we bring in these amendments of yours, then we're going to hurt what's original or we're going to search the entire law then. That's why your amendments aren't, therefore, not because of the essence, but only because the law is carried out consistently. It's explained to us. Here's the assistant minister and I think that's the way it is. I think that's okay. And that's why I needed to tell you this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25249	Replica, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25250	In fact, I just want to make it clear that I don't mind the whole law being searched and getting the Justice Department officially to do it the way you explained it. I don't mind doing that. I think it's quite enough for the Ministry to decide and then we know where we're at.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25251	I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't trust each other. We're talking about the same thing, but here comes the assistant minister of justice. Here you go. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25252	I would like to welcome the Presidency of the House of Representatives, MPs, members of the Council of Ministers and guests. With regard to Mr Živković's remarks, the word marked by the grand letter of the Court of Justice to be added by the Court of Justice of BiH, why did we say it was not necessary? Because Article 2 of the existing law that was passed in 2005 states in the definition that the Court is a capital letter and that it means the Court of BiH. So the law dealt with and gave a definition, for example. and other concepts: what is a prisoner, what is a prisoner, the BiH Ministry of Justice that means that the BiH Ministry of Justice, the Criminal Law that is BiH's Criminal Law, and means it's only important that those words be marked with a capital letter, which means that the law itself says it's the Court of BiH. And because of this Article 2 in all other members up to 204, the BiH Court is always marked as the Court of Justice with a capital letter. So now it's just one legal-technical nomotechnic to be equal in all members. As far as Mr. Živković's proposal regarding the word'second court' is concerned, when it is said why this'second court' is marked with a small letter. This comes from, let me tell you, already from the 24th law that was passed since 2005, and we already have in mind (4) of Article 1 which determines the authority of BiH to say, 'According to the provisions of this request, and at the request of the convicted person, sanctions will also be imposed in entity courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of BiH." And that's why when we say'second court', we had to mark it as it was written here in a little letter. That means, practically, we may not have had it in practice right now, but let's say the person who's by the entity court after 1. 3. In 2003 she was convicted, for example, of crimes against humanity and international law, so these are crimes of 1. 3. In 2003, criminal acts... BiH: So, a prisoner like that when he comes to the penitentiary under this law has the right to say: I want to uphold the fine but by the laws of BiH. He can find some interest, he may look at the Law of Compassion, watch parole, watch what are the benefits, what are the visits, and he can assess that for him from the aspect of human rights and the rights of prisoners is a better law with greater perhaps European standards and he can express a desire to, say, maintain punishment according to BiH rules. Also, you know, according to the Law on the Court of BiH, the BiH Court of Justice in cases against humanity and international law, international organised crime and inter-entity crime, it has the right to leave the trial in one case to another court in BiH. So, in such cases when the BiH Court of Justice does so, another court from any entity will judge BiH under the rules. So, he will judge by the BiH Penal Code and then such a person,... when it is referred to upholding the sentence, the sentence of the prison would be subject to the BiH Criminal Penal Code. If that were all the case, it is already followed by the Law on Compassion adopted by the BiH Parliament and published in Official Messenger number 93/05, which already in its Article 2, which already provided for the possibility of such situations, he said: 'For criminal sanctions imposed by the Court of Justice of BiH, or by another BiH court, when the Court of Justice of BiH transferred to him the conduct of proceedings, or for criminal sanctions which were not imposed by the Court of Justice of BiH, the BiH Presidency may grant pardon to such convicted persons.' So, in this particular case, it was just a matter of, how to say, legal and technical clarification of these terms, which is why we have respected Article 13 concerning the transfer of detainees and we have accepted Mr. Živković's suggestion and, in addition to the word of the Court, we have added or another court to which the Court of Justice of BiH has transferred the conduct of the proceedings. We felt that Articles 2 and 3 were not necessary, and I also do not think that Article 168 in our opinion is controversial. It's about the implementation of inter-entity regulations in case a minor is sentenced to juvenile prison. The member is so well-conceived that he fully respects entity jurisdiction, which was explained in detail. So, when the place of execution is respected, the jurisdictional court of the entity and the place of residence. And I mean, these are cases where, for example, an entity has that jurisdiction does not own an appropriate institution or a special accommodation department. In such a case, the entity's competent court through the Ministry of Justice of the entity would have had to obtain prior consent so that the BiH Justice Minister could make such a solution and also the former justice minister, that we followed the proposal from the RS Constitutional Commission to seek the consent of the entity's justice ministry to receive such a minor, so that we added so that, in my opinion, there is no uncertainty that the norm is absolutely clear, that it fully respects the entity's jurisdiction and that this only means cases of inter-entity law enforcement if it appears in practice, which would be the BiH Department of Justice's competent. I have to tell you here that, and to put it this way, an initiative to formulate this member has appeared and after 25 of this case that took place in Sarajevo, the Denis Mrnjavac case. So, there may be a situation where we have work in the Federation, that we have a court in the Federation, means that we have a residence in the Federation, and that we do not have an appropriate juvenile institution in which such persons could be placed, and this member allows it to mean that in such cases, lex specialis of rare cases that would appear in practice, means that it has the appropriate authority and jurisdiction of the BiH minister of justice. It means that such a case could be solved in practice and addressed to another entity's office, where we have such an institution.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25253	I think that's enough, Mr. Bisić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25254	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25255	Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25256	Mr. Chairman, here I am going to say a few sentences about this amendment that I have made; given that I didn't think it would be necessary, because it's visible, but here's the chairman of the Constitutional Commission has warned that we should take care of the artistic impression of our work, and we're in this situation where we play a show where the main actors are fighting for air and we don't have a chance to talk about art. Then when the lead actors do their job, then we'll talk about the artistic impression and the story, because it comes to you as a worker who's lost his job to ask for the amount of a warm meal. Here, Mr. Džaferović,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25257	Please, a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25258	I will give you one material from the Council of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia where the MPs of the U.S.A. have asked you the point of reference. People don't get the point. They asked a question of meaning when almost every session they apply for several requirements for the protection of vital national interest that we don't talk about, in one of them is a controversial point, which means. I can understand them. People care about the point. Now, this is a very important law and don't pursue the artistic impression because this law, um, treats one heavy substance, heavy matter, a very important matter that is in Europe and in all countries, after all, by these modern technologies, it gets to one specific weight, and especially if we add to that weight our political collapses and then we have one inaccurate formulation, then it can cause problems. So don't underestimate this law and don't honor anyone who seeks any interpretation of any term or any provision in which they think that interpretation can be controversial. It doesn't have to be questionable and at the cost that maybe here sometimes isn't the linguistic best, but it's important that the essence doesn't matter between us, and there's going to be a time when we're going to do these things. I also don't think that rules and everything should be taken into account, but it's especially important that we fully understand such important matter because they can be problematic and what these are like now, the formulations that are at 26 of this law at this point that people think are the best question in the future, when they're facing the challenge of time, as it will prove. We have also had instructions here that, when it comes to my amendment and the objection we have on the Constitutional Commission of Amendment Proposers, we have, in a way, turned them into our amendments without the consent of the Proposer as we have done in the best intention of reaching a compromise solution. In that sense, this amendment, although... let's say I saw when people's remarks were too late when it came to the position of inspectors, the position of inspectors, and who, I must say, in these legal solutions were left neglected, but not to elaborate now, we'll have, I hope, an opportunity to quickly think this out for us, and maybe in the House of People, we'll try to sort it out eventually with a single amendment because I see that it's a serious and justified remark, and let's say we didn't have it in the amendments, we didn't even have it in the basic text proposal. In the position of the amandman that I am defending, in attitude (3) I see no reason not to resolve this issue by a memorandum. I do not dispute that that provision, which was made on the Constitutional Commission with agreement, but I do not see any reason for this issue to be resolved by the signing of such a memorandum, where all these necessary, i.e., regulate all these possible issues, and where people could call on that memorandum in its implementation, means something, because there are questions and I know that practice is controversial in the sense of where people really do a difficult job that has challenges every day, and especially when it is in those stores that it has a problem and with incorrect legal provisions. So I don't think that, we're certainly not going to make anything worse here, but on the contrary, we're going to fix it if we adopt this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25259	I'm moving Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25260	By listening to the explanation of the amandman given by Mr Kalabić, I think the Constitutional Commission could consider only point 4. because I think it is very important, there is no telling who is carrying the costs and this whole amendment is in that if you agree that the boy is going to jail, I don't know, in the RS of the Federation, who is carrying the costs. And if that point four were to be adopted, this was all said before. The assistant minister said that there is a practical way of agreeing on how it is going, but point 4 is a fundamental question and I think it would be good if, Mr. Džaferović, we could accept the point 4 of Article 168 as an amendment, because it seems to me that this particular party is very important for us to define itself. And I think the whole amendment is due to a point four that could come in as an amendment, I don't know, into this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25261	Replica, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25262	Well, I think we're arguing about nothing. I mean, really
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25263	Then I suggest we stop arguing. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25264	I mean, we're not arguing about anything. Let's argue about things that are completely undeniable in the law. We agreed: So both the ministry must have their position. Without that, there's... there's no moving. That's what we discussed. Mr. Novaković raised the issue at a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission. But as for this new amendment, don't ask Šefik, I don't have that authority. I'm one of the nine of us in the Commission, but he has a representative of the Council of Ministers. If they're okay with this and this isn't a problem with them, let the man say, let him review this amendment, and that will be my attitude. This was also the case at the Commission's meeting. We don't have anything special to philosophy about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25265	I don't have any more reports. I hope we're getting closer to the weight of the exercise and the artistic impression and we're gonna get out of this whole thing. So... I'm closing the debate on point 4. Let's go to point 5. Ad.5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers (also a second reading) You've received a report from the committee in charge. May I have your attention, please? You got the report, you saw he was unanimous. Please let me work. I'm opening a debate. Press Ademe! Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25267	Well, since here in the Commission report, Mr. Chairman, it is written that Mr. Džaferović as a member of the Commission's College is a rapporteur, here, he has now asked me to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25268	But it's not necessary when things are clear, it's not necessary, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25269	And here, I propose that we accept the Commission's report and I just want to say that there was one amendment concerning Article 17 of the amendment and the addition, or Article 112 of the old law. The author of this amendment was myself and on the Commission asked me to give up the amandman and that the Ministry, or competent services, would consider the essence of the amendment but, in my opinion, it was not adequately put here in the minutes. I just want to draw 28 attention to that. It may also be put in place in the Commission's minutes. I suggest we adopt a report like this from the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25270	I don't have any more reports. I am concluding the debate on item 5, so the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Police Officers. We're going to point six. Ad.6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security The opinion of the Joint Commission has been given 25. 3. and, as shown in the Report, the Joint Commission has not accepted the principles. We are now discussing, of course, and we will decide later, on the opinion of this committee. I haven't been reported yet. Is that gonna put pressure on you, Ademe? Here you go. Something doesn't want a button.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25272	This was about amending the law that takes into account some organisational changes in the Ministry of Defence. Since the Commission's vote requires the consent of at least one member of each constituent people, since there was no "yes" vote in the order of the Serb people, this could not have been accepted. I suggest we turn this report down, put it back on this committee. And I think that this agreement can be reached in the meantime, i.e. the information needed at that time, and there was no law to be passed. Here, that's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25273	Well, I believe the Commission will work on it. It is therefore up to the Commission to work on it together with the Proposer. So, I don't have any more reports. I am concluding the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. We're going to point 7. 29 Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina We also got 25 opinions. 3. In this case, the Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on this law in my first reading. I don't have any reports. I am concluding the debate on the Amendment Act and the Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces. We're going to point 8. Ad.8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25278	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, the honourable representatives of the Council of Ministers, the international community, NGOs, means of information, dear guests, behold, the chairman himself said that the fate of this law we know and that she seems to have experienced the same fate on the Commission about seven or eight times, and that this text of the law in such a form was made that it was difficult to bring it into line with the Commission, or he could not meet all the criteria in order to gain support and pass on principles. But since the Commission has so far given a negative opinion on the principles of this law, which we have not been able to find common, because it has indeed not been agreed, or has not been made in accordance with all the satisfactory norms that would be necessary for such a single law, even individual institutions, or agencies for this law, have recently said that it is worse than this existing one. But since this law is very important for BiH's further progress towards visa liberalisation and BiH's accession to the EU and for us to break this agony once and for this law to come to this Parliament today or to refuse, several of us from the RS MPs have deliberately supported this law in the first reading, or its principles, to come to this Parliament, so that it is not the Commission who allegedly is holding it back, and the law is not really done in, according to us, the kind of way that could be acceptable. ... and that is why the Commission did not want any more, or we individuals from that commission did not want to participate in taking this commission as a right not to come to this house and that it also assesses whether this law should fall and go into the new procedure of making a new law, or whether it should be passed, given its real importance, as regards this reasoning of voting on the Commission for principles. And as far as the law itself is concerned, today we MPs from the SDS will not, and I said it on the Commission, be able to support this law because it really does not deserve it in this text and this kind of dissension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25279	You made me happy, Mirko, but now you're a little disappointed in me, but good. It's correct to hear. I'm gonna use it a little bit, so you said the key thing. This law is one of the conditions for visa liberalisation. That's what the citizens of this country need to know. Let's move on. Any further reports? Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25280	Mr. Chairman, I was just about to say what you said.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25281	Eh, well, when I said, then sit down. Is there any further? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on. Point 11. 31 Ad.11. Proposal for a Financial Lising Act (first reading) We received a 30th opinion from the Commission responsible for finance and the budget. 3. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law and proposed to the House that it adopt the following conclusions: 'It is the Commission's duty that after the House of Representatives adopts the draft law in the first reading' (maybe we should wait and then see, but this is what is proposed) 'organises and maintains a public debate on the proposal for a law on financial lease. The House of Representatives tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to make additional efforts to ensure the consent of the RS Ministry of Finance at the proposal of the Financial Lising Law." I don't know since the ministry of any entity has agreed to the laws, but here's the Commission's proposal. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25283	Mr. Chairman, I was just about to comment on the conclusions made by our Finance and Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25284	But let's concentrate on the first reading then, Momo, and see if it's necessary at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25285	Well, I think what I'm saying is just about first reading. Namely, the 2nd conclusion, which says, "The House of Representatives owes the Council of Ministers to make additional efforts to ensure the consent of the RS Ministry of Finance at the proposal of the Financial Lising Act." I didn't realize it in the way that you realized that literally the Ministry... required consent in terms of whether or not it was in agreement with the existing text of the law, I understood it as a necessary effort to bring the text of the law into line between the RS Ministry of Finance and, of course, this text that we have in this proposal. And that's exactly the point. So the essence of the whole thing is whether the proposed text of the law is acceptable or not acceptable and, if it isn't, and obviously given this conclusion that there are problems and it's not acceptable, then I think it's more correct that we didn't put this law on the agenda today than that we were waiting for an attempt to comply with the text of the law. So, not to obtain consent but to bring the text of the law into line so that all misunderstandings can be removed in Parliament. So, my wish is that if it is possible simply before the first reading debate we have what the Commission has proposed but, I repeat, I understood it differently: not classical consent but an attempt to bring this text into line. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25286	It's nothing new, Momo, we understand each other. Let's move on. Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25287	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I'm glad this law came on the agenda. Since it's the law in first reading, I'll be pretty short. It is indisputable that there is a need to pass such a law, because, in fact, we as an undeveloped country with scarce financial opportunities and scarce financial opportunities for individuals, this law will open up the practice of making it easier to reach certain solutions for the employment of people, especially in the service of activity. When I say in the service activity, this practice has been brought to life, for example, in health care in the opening of private offices. Because it's impossible to buy heavy and large appliances that mean something with the funds you need to get through credit, where there are great limitations and difficulties in that practice. And in the world, it's known that the development of the financial lease is, in fact, one aid to people to start business in all areas of life. So there is no doubt that the need for this law has been made, and the legal explanation also lists all the advantages of the adoption of this law. The law, in my court, is quite well-conceived and I would only join the Commission's mindset, and that perhaps a public debate should be opened, because in conversations with certain people who deal with lising or financial experts, and even so personally I suggested that some of them be accepted, there is a need to discuss this law a little wider and bring opinions to people who are engaged in this profession. Otherwise, by my judgment, this law meets all the criteria for going to another reading, and whether it will be an amendment or not, we will see. I am convinced that the law is well laid and well done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25288	Replica, Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25289	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Commission was closer to the definition at its session and
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25290	Who's the replica, Bajazit?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25291	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25292	I saw it was a replica. Who? 33
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25293	Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25294	What about Novaković?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25295	Yeah, yeah. So, the Commission was closer to the definition of delaying this law, but we had a restriction in the Rules of Procedure and this conclusion is our attempt to accept the principles of this law today. Without this conclusion, he would already be sentenced to failure, and that would be a great shame, given the long time and the desire to reach such a law. We think that in the context of a public debate that will be organised and in the framework of the Council of Ministers' efforts to reach the text of a law that will be supported by the Ministry of Finance in co-operation... in this House, the Commission had to forward it to the House, and it is up to the House to choose a more favourable variant for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25296	Velimir Jukić, it was not necessary and you had to, but here you are, but so be it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25297	Here, with these explanations that have already been given, I am not going to talk about explanations of work on the competent commission, but I am going to say something about the importance of this law and the need to pass such a law. This law should have been passed long ago, in fact, there is a great need for such a law in BiH, especially after privatisation of the banking sector where it is no longer...to get credit in this country if you have a good programme, if you convince the bank that you have a good programme. And yet by adopting such a law, it will not be a problem, nor will it be, in other ways, through the lising, again, if it has the trust of the bank or any other financial institution that is in the mood, or which deals with such a business. Therefore, the adoption of such a law will certainly significantly improve the overall climate and make it more suitable for entrepreneurial activities. And I think that the importance of this law is very, very important and that in this period that is ahead of us all, and that this is also the position of the competent commission to adopt this law. Of course, that includes any necessary amendments if there are. What is particularly important and important is that this law is done in cooperation with both international experts and this law includes all those solutions, i.e. rules and standards which otherwise apply to other EU countries, which is very good again, so that it will not be necessary after its compliance with the standards of acquis communaitaire. So I think this is extremely important and important, and if there are any misunderstandings in relations with entity finance or governments, this time needs to be used before us, and it's settled. And I wouldn't really talk about this much. This is, licking is a way of reaching funds that has become very popular lately, especially in some countries in Europe such as France, Sweden, etc. but it is becoming popular, or acceptable, and increasingly acceptable in an increasing number of countries in Europe. BiH has a particular need for this way of financing entrepreneurship projects. In the Explanation here there is a 34 small and awkward detail, as it is said, that this is literally translated correctly from English, so it follows from this... that this was done in collaboration with foreign experts, if not with their main engagement, which may be positive, but perhaps it should not have been in the document one such remark.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25298	I don't have any more reports. And there was Sadik Bahtić, and although Mr Jašarević said something on behalf of the Commission, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25299	Never mind, I didn't mean to sign up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25300	It doesn't matter to me either. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25301	And after my colleague Novaković's discussion, I have the need to say that he stands by this remark, means consent, means trying to agree again, as a representative and a member of the RS Commission said that at this point he is not ready to vote, there is no, there is no, there is no, and it is also the case that colleagues have said about a very important law. We know that this law everywhere in the world is a lack of resources, this is one of the measures and in this recession and the global crisis makes it easier for our economy. That's why this law deserves every measure we can take to agree, to bring it in, because it's our obligation. And I'd say in the end, because I didn't have time today. I don't see here a member of Denis Bećirović, that he didn't launch an initiative to condemn that attack in Tuzla by that journalist. I believe, when what happened to me, which my colleague said, "You've been opening pâtés for ten days and I've been in pastures." And now I don't see these media and nothing and it's still about the person of the other sex. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25302	Dear President Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25303	He checked in a little late. I want to explain, Mr. Novaković. It's not a replica. I want to explain. I have said on several occasions that it is a matter of MPs and their decisions to consult, from whom they will obtain opinions, consent, whatever they want to call it. However, the constitutional position of the BiH Parliament, its Rules of Procedure, etc. in no way... absolutely does not foresee in procedures of official obtaining consent etc. So every MP of 42 of us has the right to consult with the electoral base as well. I would be most fortunate if we were with the citizens to consult with the institutions he wants there, but it can't be introduced into the official procedure of this home. And that's my explanation, nothing else. 35 I hereby conclude debate on item 11. Proposal for a financial lease law. We're going to point 12 and don't mind me a little bit because this title is pretty specific, it's a little bit harder, so ad. 12. Proposal for a Framework Law on the Foundations of the Research Activity and Coordination of the Internal and International Research Co-operation of BiH It's about the law in first reading. The opinion of the committee in charge of constitutional law and principles was given on 27 March. The Commission has established a constitutional legal basis and supports the principles of the proposed law. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. I have three MPs reported. Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25305	I thank you, Chairman. And I am glad that I have the opportunity to say something about this law and I am glad that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has the opportunity to discuss scientific research in BiH. And despite this name... The proposal for a framework law on the foundations of research and coordination I think this is indeed one to praise the attempt to regulate the area in BiH. It would probably need to be more detailed, that more autonomy for scientific researchers and organisations, but at this point... the agreement reached in this course of the law, I would really like to express my praise to the Ministry and the Council of Ministers for what it has done in this text. What concerns me is the relationship. We have received an opinion on the Framework Law proposal from the Constitutional Commission and voting under that law 5:3 and I have reported the most from this intention to try to come up with solutions written in this law or possibly certain corrections for BiH to get this law, that BiH can actively participate in EU policy implementation and enter the European Research Area. What is here to point out, some four things I have initialled myself here, is that BiH is being obliged to do 'The Science Development Strategy in BiH'. This is what BiH and the research institutions and those dealing with research really need. To establish the Science Council in BiH as the expert body of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Whether it's the best solution or not or it's a possible solution at this point, it's, I guess it's another one, but it's certainly one very necessary institution that will play the role of the one that's been provided by law and where its activities will be collected from the field of scientific research. Also, this next thing is to establish a scientific information system in BiH. We don't have it today, we have something on the entity level. I know that the Federal Ministry of Science or Culture, as it is called, has, in fact, tried, I don't think a single database of works and scientists in the Federation of BiH has been completed yet. I think this is a really good way to establish it. 36 And the next thing I know, what I've put to myself here is a way of funding, or co-financing activities, that finally here's the institution that BiH's budget has planned funds for the participation of our scientists, our institutions in international research conventions, corpuss, etc. And I think that's a good thing. She, in my opinion, would like to take a broader aspect of this area, I appreciate again throughout my discussion, throughout this whole discussion that this is probably a possible range at this point in the law. And in that sense, in the end, I really want to express once again the satisfaction of having the opportunity to discuss scientific research activities and science in the BiH Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25306	I thank the esteemed representative, Nanić. The following has been reported to the esteemed representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25307	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am actually in the same way as my predecessor, Mr. Nanić, expressing my personal satisfaction that we have this kind of legislative project in the parliamentary procedure and I will also say as a member of the academic community that I think and that the entire academic community in BiH supports... such a systematic attempt to regulate science in BiH. After the adoption of the Framework Law on Higher Education, I think this is one of, for me, extremely significant laws that will allow BiH citizens to access one intellectual upgrade that we all certainly need significantly. What I would really like to say is that I think a public debate, whether a public debate on this draft law or a general public debate, would help make the law more comprehensive, more quality, because I think, if we talk about this aspect of life for the first time, that such a public debate would be important. Why would I think that? Because within the academic community itself, we have some misunderstandings, so if it means that through this public debate, the misunderstandings have been removed, and they are made up of certain members of this law that I would not talk too much about today, given that it is the first reading, I think that this misunderstanding could then be removed. One of these misunderstandings would be an even more precise definition of Article 5 of this draft law, which is only for one example, says the review article, which, in the concept of the review article, does not now specify whether it is a magazine article that represents a truly specific scientific work, whether it is an educational article, or whether it is an informative article. Since this is not irrelevant in the rules on the election process and the process of accession contests within the academic community itself, and the rules on the work of certain higher education institutions have major problems with the interpretation of such unspecified members, so I ask that there be some way to pay attention to this. As far as the BiH Science Council is concerned, I absolutely think it is necessary, but I hope that it will actually enter into the Council, in addition to some of the general conditions that meet these potential members of the Science Council, that people with respectable scientific references will actually enter. I think that only one such respectability will enable the quality of the work of this Science Council, because in fact absolutely respecting the references of these scientists, or members of the Science Council that will enter the Science Council will enable... the work of this Science Council and will actually allow the Science Council... to function in the way provided for by this law. I think that people who are not competent, and if they enter the Science Council, there will be obstructions in the work, and we already have such structures or institutions at BiH level, and I really don't want to, and that's why on this 37, I am apostrophysing: that incompetent people don't enter the Science Council. We in BiH have a lot of competent people and I ask the Ministry of Civil Affairs because it will be the one that will ultimately make the choice of these people who will enter the Science Council to take great care of it. As far as the database is concerned, I think of course we absolutely need it and I hope that we will get that database very soon. But what I would draw attention to: this is to hope that this law will be implemented in its full capacity in the obligations of Article 22, which means that sublegal law enforcement acts will be passed within six months of the date of entry of this law, because we have examples of certain higher education agencies, medicines agencies at BiH level that have long broken the deadlines for their institutionalisation in full capacity, their empowerment and their actions. Of course, I would also like to say that as far as EU access funds are concerned, the EU has one resource of 50 billion euros for science, that Bosnian-Herzegovina citizens have only had access as satellites, i.e. co-workers, and that after the ratification of the Agreement they can also be the leaders of such projects. But these projects also require co-operation with the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Department of Science, because such an application is very difficult to make. I hope that when this law is adopted, it will make it easier for people who have been trying to do research for years, and rightly, I have to say very often from some extremely irrational motives and impulses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25308	Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25309	Dear colleagues, fellow Members, I have just been on the Constitutional Legal Commission one of those who did not support the principles of this law and I feel the need to explain it here in Parliament today in some way. In particular, I considered this law to be a visible form of new BiH-level institutions, one of these means an institution is also a Council defined by Article 10, so the Council for Science of BiH. On the constitutional basis, it is evident that the legislator has sought to find a constitutional basis, as it is evident that he has failed to find a constitutional basis for this law, which in itself speaks and points out that this is about some kind of transfer of jurisdiction in this area. But of course, the Constitutional Commission has established a constitutional legal basis and I do not want to talk about it any further. I'll say a few things about the principles of this law. In fact, one of the principles of the law listed under f) is the ethics of scientists and researchers. You see, I believe that the way to choose this advice is to the greatest and greatest extent not to provide, let's say, the fulfillment of this particular principle. Namely, the BiH Science Council is appointed by the Council of Ministers, and now we have who and how it proposes, and the institution of the competition is not envisaged, so at a small door, I must say, is freely introduced into this area and politics. I find it poor, unnecessary and possible and it is necessary here if the law passes in the first reading to provide an institution of competition in the election of the BiH Science Council. It is also not clear in Article 1 of the Rules of Procedure to whom the Council makes recommendations. Namely, point i), j) and l) is intended to give recommendations, but... it is not clear to whom he makes recommendations. Is it at someone's request of a recommendation and if it's not on the 38th someone's request to whom it is, whether it's the Council of Ministers, whether it's this ministry, whether it's, I don't know, simply, things are pretty vague here. It also leaves a dilemma in Article 14 when it comes to databases, whether or not the Ministry of Civil Affairs has the possibility to enter the database of others, means lower levels, whether lower levels can enter the database of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, or someone else's, say, from the RS into the Federation database and vice versa, which I think would be logical, given this area, or given what this is about. So I'm not sure that the principles of this law are acceptable at this point, although I must say that there is a need and that I agree with all those who have said that there is a need for this area to be defined in some way. Perhaps a happier solution could have been found. After all, we will see if it enters this second stage, into another reading, if we can make certain changes to make the law more acceptable or acceptable and to avoid these, in my opinion, means these shortcomings that I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25310	Replica, Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25311	Well, Madam Chairman, I actually just wanted to draw my attention to my colleague Novaković in some way that, in fact, as far as this transfer of jurisdiction is concerned, we have very big problems in the presence of scientific meetings, congresses, symposiums and conferences, because it's actually about reporting from the level of BiH and in fact we who are going to such meetings, probably, and of course other professions, not just medical doctors, we have a lot of problems that we don't have this area in a way that would be legally adequate. I'm not saying this is the best legal way and I absolutely agree with you on this competition selection. I think that would be very good, I think that you would actually capitulate this Science Council in the way I talked about it, but I would really draw attention in some way that people who do science in any way and who present the results from BiH, are mainly about applied science, have a lot of problems that there is not one such institution at BiH level. As far as ethical matters are concerned, you said ethical rules, probably after... a law like this, I think it would really be necessary to have an ethical commission in whether this Advisory Council or whether the Advisory Council would be conducting a question of ethical aspects of scientific research projects, but no project under its own procedure can enter into the process without getting ethical consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25312	Replica, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25313	So I was just in my discussion at the end saying that there was a need to regulate this area. So I absolutely agree that there are problems and that there is a need for these 39 problems to be removed in a way that this area is regulated legally. What of course we disagreed or didn't hear that we agree on whether or not there's a transfer of jurisdiction here. In fact, I still think it was possible to solve this issue differently, so let's avoid this story that I was just talking about. That's what I'm saying because we had a similar story on the Constitutional Commission. Experience shows that when such votes are on the Constitutional Commission that certain things need to be done in order to avoid Parliament being rejected. Here, for that reason, I was saying, in the best of intentions, that we could come up with a solution that would be accepted to avoid future problems, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25314	I'm moving Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25315	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, allow me first of all to express my satisfaction that today we are having a debate in the first reading of this law on scientific research with all the further prefixes it has. And to express my desire that he is not indicative, but that he is the law. But if it is indicative, with us in Parliament, it means that we have agreed that there is no transfer of jurisdiction, then that framework law should be read as well, and I think we can find reconciliation there. Another thing that's very important. I want to stress here that really BiH must have its own research development strategy, it must have a scientific information system, a developed scientific information system and, in the end, I think it is very important for scientific research to have sources of funding. On what basis, how, it's a matter of further agreement. The second thing I would like to stress is that I agree with Mr. Novaković's discussion of the things he said in this law to do: competition,... commission, etc., but I think that if we adopt the law in the first reading then I suggest that the first debate go ahead and after the debate then to schedule this commission, the amendment phase, so that we can implement, I would say, expert opinion in this law. And, finally, what I'd like to say is, I'd like for policy research here to have, perhaps, the slightest impact on what it's supposed to get through scientific research. I am deeply saddened today if we have information that our institutions, from colleges to institutes, universities to institutes: report joint work with other institutions from other countries without reporting the scientific research work of the Bosnian-Herzegovian institutions. And I think that's why this law is so much more justified, not to avoid their co-operation than we could right now use what we'd like to use as bh. The funds a colleague Alajbegovic spoke of means those 50 billion euros for scientific research and in collaboration with others that the sum we as institutions in BiH could receive and increase through this co-operation, the international co-operation that would be reported here. That is why I think it would be good to go into the acceptance of this first reading procedure, to have a public debate afterwards, and to open up after a public debate, I would say, an amendment phase after which the Commission could review, or, if so, arrange and make this law a second reading in this House. Thank you very much. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25316	Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25317	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, let's not just be colleagues, shall we? I'm going to be pretty short, so I'm sitting between colleagues so I have to keep mentioning them, I'm going to be pretty short because my predecessors have already discussed many things and there's no need to repeat ourselves. But I checked in, and I don't want to say a few words. First, in my court, the motioner made a lot of effort and found a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. If we don't talk about how much it takes to pass this law, I'm just going to give you one example. I am a witness that certain institutions make contracts from Slovenia, so if you want, here is a contract with the General Hospital in Tešnja, so that they can compete for certain EU projects, because whatever there are more countries or individual institutions from certain countries, then the Union's research projects are easier to obtain. Why should we be less smart than Slovenac or anyone else? And, therefore, I am very pleased that this ministry in the set of laws that it has so far proposed, from preschool, school, professional, high school, ultimately proposes this framework law on scientific research. So, the constitutional basis I support, I also support the principles of this law, but there's one thing I'd like to say. Some of the debaters were talking about clarifications. ... Normally, the rules will be passed, sublegal acts that will distinguish certain things, it's not that important, but here I would just express my concern that it will be very difficult to come up with a research strategy, because it is in Article 8. (and we will have time to talk about it in the amendment phase) explicitly said that it can be brought with the consent of entities, cantons, Brcko District of BiH, etc. I think the word 'consensus' should be replaced with another word a little less harsh, because this kind of consent will certainly make it difficult to adopt a research strategy and everything else in BiH, and development, and it will not bother anyone if they consult, and he will not participate in the work. Normally, we can't get someone to do something if he doesn't, but we can offer him, we can ask him. And the possibility of being able to say that we are going to some centralisation or some state-level review, because when the Council is adopted, which is not only an advisory body, because here it specifically said that the professional body, which is very significant, means both advisory and professional – there are all the possibilities to remove any, let's call, revote, but actually to get, which in science finally and no voting, there is whether you did something right or wrong. I think we'll take advantage of some solutions faster if we replace this word "consensus" with something else. I am pleased to pass this law, because to tell you that jurisdiction is at the level of cantons and entities and one who has dealt with science or lived with these scientific research institutions, then felt safe... that in war and postwar times there has been devaluation, a strong devaluation of the adoption of various titles of scientists etc., because it is the absurd one that the conglomerate has made. Everyone in their community wants to produce scientists and invent certain things that it's scientific work, so sometimes you can ask yourself, even if you're laughing, 41 if a journalistic article can be scientific work at all. And that's what it was like. People do press articles and get titles, considering it's scientific work. So, anyway, I support this law. I'm glad he came to the first reading. I hope we adopt him. I'm not saying there won't be any amendments and improvements, because it's good if it always does. I've expressed my suspicions where I'm afraid there may be no particular intention. As a whole, I support the constitutional basis and the attachments of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25318	We have a replica, Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25319	Mr. Chairman, without contesting the need to pass a framework law on these issues, I would still like to point out a little bit that we do not get too carried away by pointing out, here is the maltene, magical power of this law that will change a lot of things. I would just like to tell you that – the replica is on the previous two discussions – many projects that come from the EU condition the participation of universities from the EU, you know that, on the one hand. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that we have not yet had the brakes to work together within BiH, on international projects, because I was also the coordinator, i.e. the bearer of a tempus project where we had the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Banja Luka and some of them from Sarajevo, from federal Sarajevo. So I'm saying, let's not go too far about what's going to change with this, with another note that I personally support the adoption of this framework law. If nothing else, to make the situation in the field of science critical in BiH, which is critical, both science and higher education, and to encourage those in charge to do much more on these issues and to make what is available on key projects of strategic interest for the country a united and to make their contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25320	I didn't notice much of the enthusiasm at Branko. Something's gone. I'm moving Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25321	Well, I'd like to rephrase Mr. Dokić as an MP, not as a professor. I said... that I am unhappy as a man that we do not have a presentation, or rather, projects within BiH towards the EU using the international co-operation that individual universities have. Both I and therefore, and I am amazed that we will receive 50 billion euros, there is no speech at all, but surely we have an orderly system of scientific research in BiH to make it far, far more favourable for us. So I'm in that sense and I don't think there should have been any replication of these things.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25322	Replica, Azra Hadžiahmetović. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25323	Well, here's the chairman, I signed up for the discussion and I'll discuss it later but I need to replicate Mr. Dokić. First on the 'Federal Sarajevo' construction. I really don't know what Sarajevo is. And secondly, my colleague Dokić, I know that you have participated in some scientific research projects, and I suppose, is that there have been more and you know the rules of participation in scientific research projects financed from EU funds or the Tempus projects, the PAR projects, etc. You also know very well that domestic institutions have been involved in the initiative of some others, i.e. scientific research institutions outside BiH. So, we have always been in a passive role to be animated by others to be involved in the project, not to be initiators of the projects, especially when it comes to interest, let's say, if the result or focus of scientific research is a topic that can be particularly interesting for BiH. So there is really a need for coordination which, i.e. institutionalally, would say, some framework that would provide more domestic proactive roles for scientific research institutions in communication with partner institutions from the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25324	Replica, Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25325	I thank you, Chairman. The replica refers to parts of Mr. Dokić and Mr. Novaković's exposure. We today, here's the 24th point I think is the agenda, we have an agreement that says the Scientific Research Cooperation Agreement between the Council of Ministers and the Government of Montenegro. We had other agreements like this. I don't think there are any institutions in BiH that are competent to implement, to be active under these agreements. And for this reason it is really necessary that we have the institutions listed in this law. And only one of the implementations of these agreements points to the need and justification for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25326	Branko Dokić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25327	Well, I can tell you that my colleague Nanić and my colleague Azra said nothing new compared to what I said, nor did I dispute what they advocate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25328	It's nice to get along. Let's go, Mehmed Suljkanović. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25329	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would like to express my satisfaction that this Framework Law proposal, even with such an unsavory title, was found in the parliamentary procedure in the first reading. I would like to appeal to those colleagues who have raised certain reserves in the question of the principles of this law, I would like to appeal to them to support this law in the first reading. I also support proposals related to the debate that the entire BiH academic community should be involved in. I remind you of the fact that we pay those bills, not investments in science and research. Compared to what we had in BiH before the war, when 3% of GDP was singled out for scientific research, these investments are currently negligible and I think by opening the door to this law, I say, we would have made at least some basis for these investments in science and scientific research to increase. To make one coordination, not to be made by foreigners where we had already mentioned participation in the relevant projects, where we received bonuses if scientific research institutions from both Bosnian Herzegovina entities appeared on one project. That's why, I say, I would once again appeal to all those who have expressed doubts about the principles. I think the discussion still shows that there is a need to support the law and that it will be supported in the first reading, and simply an ungrably title and believed and ungrably formulations that it has in this can be slightly improved through public debate. And I would point out that this law and its adoption are inseparable from the Framework Law on Higher Education, because the fact is that higher education and it differs from other, or secondary and primary education, because it is an important segment of this education and scientific research work and that the adoption of even such a framework law can certainly make things better in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25330	Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25331	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I will take the opportunity at the beginning of the discussion just to mention the absent Mr. Dokić and the PDP Klub on behalf of whom he discussed earlier, or replicated. Mr. Dokić mentioned that we had not separated, i.e. there were both research and international co-operation without this law. However, it was precisely in the sense I was talking about, hence the absence of an active role of BiH, scientific research institutions and scientific researchers in communication with partners, especially when it comes to the EU, when it comes to EU projects. I will begin by first by congratulating Minister Nović on the activities he devoted during his term of office to higher education and scientific research. I know Minister Nović has enough hearing and filling to rise above some of our ground readings, especially when it comes to, say, this problem. Well, let's mention, if anything else and deserves attention to be beyond any limits, that's a science that neither national nor any other border exists, is it, especially when it comes to coordination and 44 scientific research work, when it comes to Europe and the realization of the fifth freedom that has been established, besides those four that we all know about, which is mobility or freedom of movement of knowledge, and which involves the mobility of researchers or the removal of any barriers to that kind of activity. In that sense, all the praises, of course, to the restoring ministry that has delivered, seem to me, never more necessary law at a time like this, and never more devoid of title. I will, in that sense, at some stage when there is an opportunity, of course, and submit an amendment unless, eventually, we get such an initiative from the promoter. Not only is he self-absorbed but what is excluded, because science does not, science itself and scientific research implies coordination. So there is no need for institutionalized coordination, especially in the title of the law itself. This, in particular, in the direction that the adoption of such a law, in some ways, points to our active role in EU policy implementation, to enter the European Research Area, to create a structure that is necessary and that meets, whether, in European standards, but the necessary structure that enables and that, in some ways, is applied in some EU funds, or to get the resources for scientific research, which are supposed to be, whether or not such a structure as is provided for by this law is, of course, and what concerns researchers' mobility. And, in particular, to mention, although unfortunately we do not have a strategy for European competitiveness, and we tend to be a member of the EU tomorrow, although such obligations exist for all European countries that have some institutional agreement with the EU to develop a more detailed strategy for the implementation of the Lisbon Agenda. I will just mention that this is one, although possibly quite accidentally, not in this context, one of the most important and significant details, namely, realisation or respect for the integrated guidelines of the Lisbon Agenda to join the European Research Area and to create assumptions that we are participating in an adequate way as scientific research implies. So, all praises to the promoter, which is when it comes to the principles of undeniable, constitutional basis indisputable, because science is even above all constitutions, to mention, when it comes to mobility and knowledge and scientific researchers and here is a suggestion that we might just condense the title of this law in the 'Proposed Framework Law on the Foundations of Scientific Research'. This includes, i.e. coordination is also necessary, whether, within the country and co-ordination with international research institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25332	Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25333	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank and use the opportunity to, as well as my colleague Hadžiahmetović, direct my sincere congratulations to get here from the Council of Ministers and apparently Mr. Nović is a technocrat of career and a real professional in a technocrat sense when he managed to get this law to the first reading and get the support of the Council of Ministers, if I understand correctly, without any problems. I hope that this law will not experience the fate of the April package, because for many things it reminds him of trying to move forward, not to go there in one step where to go. 45 I belong to those who support public debate and include as many people as possible of science in this and try to find not only legal reasons and European reasons but also the real reasons why we need this. In fact, it is possible to find a lot of objections to this law. And I will ultimately support the shift forward, but I also call on Mr. Minister to really use his authority, political authority, technocrat authority, to go one step further. I'll give you a few things that I think would be good if we took care of them anyway. I won't say anything new when I say, is that, after agriculture, the EU's largest budget is at our disposal as much as we have a framework for accessing it through one of these or similar laws. I'm not going to say anything new when I say that in April 2006, it was agreed, and it's very simple, that we have 'The Ministry of Agriculture' and 'The Ministry of Science, Technology and Ecology' because there was awareness that over two-thirds of the European budget is going down on those two items, and that in itself it gives us common sense, not something else. This law, I don't mean to be malice, but I find it unnecessary to diverge by the name of the law. I won't say anything new except a few things I think I should do. I'm surprised that someone didn't propose to change this law's name and to call it 'Framework Act on the Foundations of Scientific Research, Coordination', so to add,'some elements of internal and international science', and to throw out the word 'internal', to be only 'International', because, in the end of the case of funding, practically internal scientific co-operation has been expelled, according to its content, it's only in the title. And then at the end of the law it could still be called 'on the principles of meeting planning'. Well, if this were to be said under the quotes of 'joint planning', in order not to, in Article 8(3), be required to talk under quotes about meeting planning. Beware of this meeting planning, if nothing, beware of the quote, because someone might think it's like a foll meeting planning, so-called. Meeting planning. Meeting planning is really nothing more than having plans for cantons, districts, both entities, and then they meet, it's meeting planning. So there's no need to be so afraid of anything at the state level that it doesn't clash with common sense. I think he's right, colleague Dokić, who says this law will run a little bit. Well, this law almost won't run at all, but it'll run just as long as we start moving. A few concrete suggestions to be made at this stage. First, I think and join those who have pointed out that in Article 8, when it comes to the science development strategy, that obtaining the consent of entities, cantons and Brcko District is, least of all, pointless. Don't get me wrong, but there are cantons in the Federation that don't have the capacity to give consent, except that I can possibly use that consent as a chip for trade for something else, and then it has nothing to do with science anymore. So, this kind of fragmenting, look out, and you know what -- consent to the strategy?- I'm sorry. When it comes to strategy, Mr. Minister, I suggest you, since you know very well why everything is here, and I have no doubt that you are one of the ministers who really knows very well why every word in any bill stands here, you are here, when you gave jurisdiction to the Council of Science, you gave him enough authority to prepare and to propose to the Ministry a lot of things that are almost administrative, almost administrative. And what is a real contribution and should be the responsibility of the Science Council – it is a more active role of the Science Council in the creation of a strategy. I do not dispute that the strategy, even I think it is good to bring it to the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, is whether, even this agreement to forget for a moment, but there is no reason for it to be in Article 11, Mr Minister, in the position (1) under b) to the Council for Science to say that it contributes to the development of a strategy. There is no reason for them to contribute, there is reason for them to actually prepare and propose to the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Because, don't get me wrong, we have in some other ministries where some of the assistants have spent just so much budget money in the last few years, especially when it comes to information technologies and these pro-pulsive things, where they've managed to spend so much money on their salaries without producing any concrete professional paper. So, don't let this come down to the Ministry preparing a strategy, and the Science Council contributes. The more we gave the Science Council the capacity to prepare and propose to the Ministry some of the things that should stay here, as in this sub c), d), e) and later in Article 12, sub 1 and 2 where you have a lot of things... Think about it, Mr. Minister, about this. That's not gonna change anything, because what you've given them is a commitment to contribute, even the Science Council is amnesty, and we don't need that. They should be the first hand of the strategy that you will then practically propose and head towards the Council of Ministers. I don't think there's any reason, and I believe that if we only use one category machine, and that's common sense, we're going to get to this. Also, Article 11(1)(j) states that the Science Council makes recommendations on support for science and technology projects of importance for BiH. I think that's very good. But it would be good if it had a reflection in the modified article 18, or 17. In fact, the Science Council is giving an opinion, giving recommendations that you would support something that is in the fields of science and technology of importance for BiH, and you do not have the opportunity to finance it here, but only have the opportunity to co-finance what is an international scientific research project. I'll give you two banal examples. Take a world miracle called the Vjetrenica. For those who do not know, therefore, is the cave one... that is unique on the planet. It can't be financed, the scientific work from the Windmill, the municipalities or the canton, or, I apologize, it might be rude to say this, I asked my colleagues what entity he's in, because I know that somewhere in Herzegovina he's down there, he's out to another entity, so I got two different answers from that colleague, which is really, but it's better not to know where he is, because the Vjetrenica isn't a municipal, or an entity thing. Take a similar example: Pop's field. Research, scientific research in the domain of what Pop's field can represent as California for food production and agriculture and communication in BiH – is that supposed to be the point, is that what we should be co-financed if it helps us from Italy? So, it's my suggestion, it's going to come back to the Ministry in the end and all the consensus mechanisms will still be used, but let's have a mechanism to at least raise science, give it in this framework, coordination, basic law, with the basics, give it the right to have something of interest. Even as far as I'm concerned, as the EU has a principle: to compete in Brussels, there must be two countries. Well, make sure you have something of interest for all of BiH to have scientists from at least two of these constitutive, of this, I didn't say constitutive, I apologize, of these three elements of the state, the District and two entities. Well, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25334	Time! 47
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25335	At least come from two support from those three, something, but only if it could be co-financed or financed from the budget just so that this point j) wouldn't and, Mr. Belkić, this is too, I know that I got out of the box, but let me really talk about things in the metrics in the first reading. And that's what I'm really gonna end up with.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25336	You're still talking, not a problem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25337	Well, well, what they're saying is, on these topics, it's hardly gonna interest anyone to argue with me on these topics. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25338	No, please, a little patience. The man's here, he needs to be given a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25339	I was wondering what Mr. Bahtić would say.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25340	He came by, and he should be given a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25341	I was really interested in what the gentleman was going to say about science.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25342	The man's here, he needs to be given a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25343	You should give him a chance for... a little...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25344	By the time he got here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25345	By the time he got here,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25346	He's already here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25347	Me, may I finish, Mr. Belkić? 48
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25349	So, finally, Mr. Minister, I suggest you also consider, in Article 12, when you talk about methodological frameworks and principles, when you are looking for, when the Ministry of Civil Affairs, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, brings instructions on various elements, to insert both the methodological framework and the principles for building a strategy, along with these others. It's just that we're just so clear to people what meeting planning is. And that methodologically, that you have an obligation to methodologically prescribe how this strategy will be achieved. I think that would be good. And finally, the last suggestion. In the competence of the Science Council, it is said that under m) that the Council for Science of 13 members, and this is a major step forward, this is the first step that we did not count Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak and others at the state level, this is the first time and this is one historic shift for this parliament, but is given to entities, Brcko and the Council of Ministers, even the Council of Ministers gets 40% of those people to propose, which is a shockingly positive thing for me, but there is no need for 'Worker' to be passed unanimously by law. Look out, and there is a principle in the EU when it comes to consensus is a consensus minus one. Why? Well, no one can be the hostage of a fool. And that is, for example, the principle that the Rules of Procedure, no Rules of Procedure on the planet, is derived from nothing unanimously, the Rules of Procedure unanimously! When it's unanimous, then it's read, say, fus note unanimously, i.e. Consensus minus one. There, that's unanimous.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25350	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25351	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25352	The man went to another one of his favorite topics, the SDP situation. After science, he went to SDP.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25353	Here, Mr. Lagumdžija, I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure. MPs show me on time, you're already talking for 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25354	Yes, it is true. So, Mr. Belkić, I thank you for letting me say a few things about a measure of such an important law and thanking the Minister for at least showing what I expected him to do a little bit and write down, which, no matter what happens, how he ends up writing down, it's a positive sign that I really appreciate. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25355	I don't have any more reports. Here we go, Mr. Nović. So the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25356	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, of course, it is an extraordinary pleasure to hear so many positive things and suggestions, good suggestions, because we are not any scientific institution, this ministry. We're just a little humble ministry trying to do its part of the job, in line with what we're being entrusted with. It would be very declassified, after all, if I were to explain what the law's intensity was, but I look forward to it, and I expected that you recognized it, and that in the next period, I am convinced, we will come to the best law of interest for the citizens of BiH. I just, uh, the information works, to say the following. I always come from the fact that the name didn't disfigure anyone. I've heard many names from children who, in my opinion, were bad names but great experts, scientists, artists and vice versa, great names and again who ended up where they shouldn't have ended up. That's why I'm not personally burdening myself with this name, and no one in the title is going to be able to draw some huge, far-reaching conclusions. As far as the strategy is concerned, you have rightly pointed out this, but I want to inform you that the strategy is already working. We've been working for almost two months, where we're trying, not waiting for this law, because we don't know how long he's gonna be in, like, in orbit, and
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25357	Can I have your patience, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25358	As the law enters into force, then as this council is formed, I'm afraid it would take us at least two more days, and we have to have a strategy. We need to have it on our own here, because without a strategy, we can't build any serious relationship in the field of science. I think the law, the strategy, our political commitment, our mutual respect in the field of science, will, in particular, enable co-financing by the state, even if we are more effective in this area than we are today. They say there's money on the street just needs to know how to take it. I'm still here to inform you, this ministry already has a science and culture sector. So, we didn't wait until we got to the law, get to the strategy, and then focus on the sectors. It already exists, because it is one of the essential conditions for talking to those who, as some MPs have said, are money, and money is an extremely important thing, especially for this country. Thank you, and I think in the next period we'll have a chance to discuss it a lot, and this is just one step forward in this area. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25359	Thank you. Here, I conclude the debate, I dare say the scientific debate on item 12. Proposal for a framework law on the basis of scientific research activities and coordination of internal and international research cooperation and, please, please, because we have a proposal for the next Amendments and Supplements Act here at the Hall, Mr Jović, who is required, has obligations immediately... IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25360	No microphone turned on... plane at 1,00
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25361	Here, Mr. Jović missed the plane for being here, excellent. Congratulations, Mr Jović, it is a relationship to Parliament and obligations. So let's do another point 13. Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH, the House of Peoples, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission Mr Jović is here on behalf of the promoter. So you have the opinion of the Constitutional Commission that we've got 27. 3. You have seen that the Commission has established a valid constitutional basis for this law, but has not supported the principles of the proposed law. We are also discussing practically at the same time the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, of course, about this law. I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Jović, do you have a need? As soon as I mentioned, he's here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25363	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, I am pleased to be present briefly with this work of yours today. Here, you have heard, because of the Law on Sports, Amendments and Supplements, I have not travelled to Berlin and I am not sad about it, but I am sad to have to go out here for a pay phone and tell people who should protect the law and the Constitution of this country, which they do not, and this concerns the Constitutional Commission of the BiH House of Representatives. A year ago, under the circumstances of preparations for the Olympics, after four years of discussion, the Law on Sports was passed according to the ad hoc principle regarding the House of Peoples. Asked by the Olympic Committee and the Ministry and the Council of Ministers that in your home this law has passed both readings, we wanted, in order not to have an agreement, to at least influence this under technical amendments to the law. We did not insist on our conclusion with the Constitutional Commission on House 51 peoples for the reason that the law should have already been, I said, in application, because only a month before the Olympics, but with the House's obligation that the Constitutional Commission of the People's House would take over and make changes and additions that would only be in line with constitutional solutions in BiH. Nothing more and nothing less. And the Constitutional Commission of the People's House cares about these changes and complements entirely, suggested the House and the House adopted it. You have before you changes and complements only what is called the application of constitutional powers, the level of government in BiH and nothing else. A law that passed and passed has offered something that's noses and absurds. If the original jurisdiction of the county is for sport, and the Federal Ministry has a co-ordinated role and has never thought of having the power to pass a law before today, there is now an absurdity: that when powers are transferred to BiH, then the law adopted in the BiH Parliament allows BiH to counter-constitutionally pass the Federation law. That's what can't happen, that's what we can't accept. Yes, I suggest as colleagues, if we have made a practically unanimous decision in the Constitutional Commission and the People's House, I don't know what it is that prevents you from at least getting deeper into that matter and seeing what changes are being made. The BiH-level law does not lose anything to these. Only the part where the BiH law wants to transfer powers to the Federation is lost, which is unconstitutional. And I hope, so understandingly, we better do it here than go to the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25364	I have a reported Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25365	I thank you, Mr. President. I think this home should return this report and allow not one situation in the House of Peoples, the other in the House of Representatives, and seriously consider these suggestions which, here, and on behalf of the promoter was given by Mr Ivo Miro Jović, because it really is not about any weakness of the law, but about precision. I was one of the people who was in the task force and with Minister Mr Nović, when we were able to agree after several years to the Sport Act, and it was an encouraging step, but the fact that within this law we do not need to prejudge constitutional and legal solutions which are political or constitutional character, because sport is essentially decentralised and I think that here I am sorry that we were the only two colleagues for this proposal on the Commission, which the Commission did most of the votes did this, but in order not to further complicate this procedure and, in some way, agreed, I think we should give a new deadline to the Commission, to this House of Representatives, to try to agree this and to get out of this situation, because I do not see that it as a matter of which would require a kind of confrontation between homes. Really, honestly, I mean it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25366	Momčilo Novaković. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25367	Well, I'll also have a very short, shorter one than my colleagues. In fact, I will support the proposal to return this law to the Commission, given that I really believe that the content of the law should be analysed once more and see whether the principles are contrary to existing constitutional solutions. But it should be correct to say that it cannot be accused now of a Constitutional Commission whose member I am, at least not in the way my colleague Jović did. In fact, we had a debate about this law and we could all go through the amendments in the first phase when we passed the law to see this and change it, but it didn't happen to us. I don't know why this didn't happen to colleagues in the House of Peoples, so they didn't have to go through the amendments to the law, but they could have solved these issues through the amendment phase. So, trying to correct the gap that was then made, trying to bring new legal solutions into the constitutional position of this Sport Act and on this side, I think it is necessary to allow the Constitutional Commission to further discuss it and re-analyze the principles and once again try to come up with a solution. But I repeat, as a member of the Commission, here, I was abstentioned in the vote, as a member of the Commission I cannot accept now, in that manner, the constitutional responsibility of the Constitutional Commission that it did not protect the Constitution here, etc., because I do not know then what the Constitutional Commission of the People's House was doing and before the Constitutional Commission this, it is not likely that even then they were not protecting the Constitution of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25368	Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25369	I don't know what this one's called from.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25370	And who's the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25371	I really needed to, first of all, express my regret that Mr. Jović did not leave today. Maybe if he'd traveled we wouldn't have heard this difficult qualification. I am not a member of the Constitutional Commission, but as a member of this House in which the Commission, or the Commission, works, has found myself injured because of a finding made to this speaker by colleagues from this Parliament, which is that the Constitutional Commission of this House does not protect the Constitution. You see, I wouldn't go into the essence, the measure of your argument, but it might happen that we have something against the Constitution, etc., but there's also a way and there's also a vocabulary to sort of draw attention to it, because if we're going to go into the background, or the past to see where there's a mistake, then we're going to find everyone's mistakes, right? But I just want to say that a very rough finding has been made for this speaker that the Constitutional Commission of this House whose president, unfortunately, is currently not here in this room, is not protecting the Constitution of this country. 53 I ask you, Mr. Jović, not to say that you travel another time when you apply, but I ask you nicely to use some other structure, because I am not sure that this is the right expression and the right qualification of what you may have rightly wanted to draw attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25372	Discussion, Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25373	Oh, I'll take it very briefly, as a member of the Constitutional Commission. I, on behalf of the promoter, tried to say what the point of these changes and additions is. This is now said a little more and wider Mr. Jović in his own own own way, which is a little bit, I think, irritated, but it doesn't matter, it's important what's good if someone gets angry....
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25374	May I have your attention, please, patience?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25375	So, the point of these amendments is, in fact, these amendments and the addition of the law, to bring solutions into the constitutional harmony, what about the BiH Constitution, or the BiH Constitution. And indeed, some solutions in the current law are not in line with the constitutional powers in BiH, and I don't know whether we need one who has the BiH Constitution to ask the question of the constitutionality of some solutions, whether this is the way and the solution, or whether it's the solution for us to fix it. I think the solution is that we fix it and the solution is now at this point, is at this point the phase of this legislative process to return the report, or we call on the competent committee to reconsider the solutions and then, in this way, to correct those solutions that are not in accordance with the Constitution, and there are such solutions, it is unequivocally.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25376	I've still got Milorad Živković reported and, as far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, let the people work, and they're paid to work, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25377	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, I don't have to explain this situation on behalf of the Ministry, or the Minister himself, but we can't help but figure out the following things. The law regularly passed the first reading in this house, got all the necessary consent, open public debate and in the second reading without any revotes and in the Council of Ministers and in this Parliament, and in one and another home, adopted. However, given that some of our colleagues have seen that after that law in certain provisions is not in accordance with the Constitution, and the commitment of the SNSD to return the powers of those who have been taken in any way, we will support that this law be returned to the 54 Constitutional Commission, that the Constitutional Commission, in light of all this which has been presented today, will reconsider that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25378	Thank you very much. I don't have any more reports. Finalizing
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25379	Any chance?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25380	There's a chance, Mr. Jović, but here we've heard. Are you listening to what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25381	Here I just want to say that the three allegations are totally incorrect, which are being said here, and as a proposal I am obliged to explain this to the parliamentarians, first of all, in the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25382	I believe you'll explain it in a way that I'll have two more hours of replicas, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25383	Thank you very much, thank you for your household. I'll repeat, the House of the People made up of the Constitutional Justice Commission, delivered them to the House. Because of the pressures made to pass the law by haste, the conclusions were not considered because we had another month until the Olympics. That is why the Constitutional Commission of the House cares about these changes and additions. Because after the adoption in our home, we were supposed to go to an agreement with your home. We did not do so so that the law could be applied and that it could be followed for the Olympics, with the promise that the Constitutional Commission would stand by the conclusions adopted on the Constitutional Commission and offer amendments and additions to the Law. It's about the part where this law was passed unanimously. It's simply not true, because he wouldn't have gone then, the way he is. The second thing I'm saying is, when it comes to the amendments, the amendments we've given to the House of Peoples you have before you. These are the amendments that were put to the conclusion, the conclusion could not be adopted because of the haste. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25384	I assure you, Mr. Jović, that we will conduct the procedure. This proposal is being discussed, so it's being treated in a business way, there's no reason to be nervous. The 55 representative home will declare your proposal, so there will be no problem. I apologize if I may have a little, you are welcome in the House of Representatives always. So here's the final debate on point 13. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Sport Act. The break is from 1.10 to 2.10. At 2.10 we begin. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats so we don't go to the shrubs. Ring a bell, Rajko! Slavko, what is this indiscipline? We'll start, so. Please take your seats to work, we have a quorum. We took a break at point 14. So it's about Ad.14. Declaration by the House on the Commission's application for traffic and communication for extension of the deadline for submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Mail
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25388	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers and guests, I want to welcome you and I think that today we have an important agenda point, and therefore I have come out of the already scheduled obligations to ask that we hold a debate today and adopt this revised strategy, and I will just take a few notes. All other details will be provided by Resolute Minister Mr. Halilović, who answers questions if they are available. What I'm saying is that for a long time this revised strategy has worked out over 150 people from different sectors, ministries at all levels of government in BiH, the NGO sector, with the support of international institutions that have also expressed great interest in adopting this document. This document detaileds all the issues related to the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement. The revised strategy is planned for the Ministry of Human Rights in co-operation with the relevant entity and other competent institutions to propose action for the implementation of the return programme from 2009 to 2014, not promising the deadlines for access to the rights of all those who do not, of course, resolve their legal status, so the question of return will never be a question that will definitely be put to the point as long as there are people who want to return, but this is therefore a time frame in which we want to concentrate both political and material and financial resources to address this problem to the greatest extent possible. In co-operation with entity ministries, the Human Rights Ministry will form an Action Plan for the period 2009. — 2014 for Annex VII law. which refers to compensation, fair compensation and other rights. We have classified this part of the text as a leading debate within the Council of Ministers, this strategy, so that all rights can be represented and naturally create obligations from Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement. I think it's good that this is an integral part of the text of the law, maybe it's good to strengthen this conclusion. Sometimes the impression is that individual rights are sometimes forced in a different way. It is the right for people to choose their place of residence in this country, it is the right for everyone to return their property, rebuild it and make up for it, and therefore I think it is good that we acted in this way in the debate within the Council of Ministers. This revised strategy highlights the need to provide the necessary resources and implement programmes according to adopted principles in the entire BiH area, with the support and participation of all relevant entity and other relevant domestic and international organisations and institutions, NGOs, civil society representatives through multiplier mechanisms of refugee participation, displaced persons and returnees. At the same time, the Council of Ministers tasked the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to draw up a plan for the sustainable completion of the return process, compensation for fair compensation and other rights from Annex VII within three months of the adoption of this revised strategy at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The Dayton Agreement. The plan will essentially be programmed for a period of four years, together with an assessment of the necessary means to implement it according to adopted principles throughout BiH. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is tasked with taking and coordinating all other activities with the aim of implementing the recommendations contained in this revised strategy. I must say, when this strategy was being done and we were having the debate, we had the same dilemmas, the same challenges that you're going to face today in this debate. Many 57 efforts have been made, it has been done seriously, and I ask you today to do everything possible to improve this strategy but, unless there is room for some additional compromises, to accept this framework of the strategy and, I think, if we cover the implementation of this strategy with action plans and financial means, that in 2014 there will be years with which we will be able to assess in the back perspective that we have done a good job in the interests of citizens seeking protection and implementation of the Annex VII plan. The Dayton Peace Agreement. I came here, so let me ask you, to point out the importance of adopting this document, to keep the attention of international institutions who want to help this process once. This is an opportunity to show everyone together today, both the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly, the seriousness of the implementation of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25389	Minister of Human Rights, displaced persons and refugees, Mr. Safet Halilović. By the way, I'm giving my confession to the Ministry, it's really made it a real effort to supply us with materials, so we can get into a whole problem. I hope you've got more on the benches of additional materials.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25390	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, after the presentation of the Council of Ministers chair, almost no need to say anything special, but since it is still this resolute task to say something about the circumstances of working on this important document. Namely, a valid or existing BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement, which was drawn up at the end of 2002, is the first joint framework document at BiH level that defines the objectives and plans for the necessary actions and reforms towards the final implementation of Annex VII's provision. A general framework agreement for peace in BiH. The strategy was accepted, both by the state and entity institutions, and by the structures of the international community in BiH. 2002 strategy? It therefore achieves good results in the realisation of certain strategic objectives, and this has been followed by the establishment and arrangement of a transparent system that has become a guarantee of equality in access to the rights of Annex VII. all refugees, displaced persons and returnees. In the last 13 years since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, almost all usurped assets have been returned to its owners. A significant number of destroyed housing units, buildings, infrastructure is restored. It's enough to say, for example. only that 320,000 were restored to 450,000 destroyed houses and homes in BiH after the war, thanks primarily to the assistance of the international community. Minority representation in the public sector has increased. Freedom of movement today is enjoyed by all persons, and the safety of returnees has been significantly improved, etc. Despite these successes, however, much remains to be done to ensure that all BiH people fully enjoy a smooth approach to all the rights defined in Annex VII. In order to improve the situation at the implementation of Annex VII, the Human Rights Ministry and Refugees 58 BiH in close consultation with other key actors initiated a revision of the Aneks vii. strategy. The Dayton Peace Agreement. The activity on the development of this revised strategy began in October 2007 with the adoption of the Audit Action Plan. The action plan provides for a revision of the strategy, so these are activities that will be implemented by institutions that will work on certain issues, as well as operators of activities and deadlines in which certain activities should be implemented. The work on this audit is divided into 10 areas related to reconstruction of housing units of returnees, reconstruction of infrastructure, closure of collective centres and alternative accommodation, completion of the process of return of property and housing rights, improvement of the situation in health care, education, social protection, security and demining, work and employment, regulation of the issue of compensation for displaced persons and others. And if it really is a large number, it is sufficient to record in the Ministry after the last registration of 2005: up to 47,000 families by name and last name, address, etc., or 153,000 persons want to return to their pre-war homes. In addition, we still have 80,000 people living outside BiH who have no status at all, which also speaks about the seriousness of this issue and its scope. About 70 entities, ministries through administrative organisations, BiH public enterprises, entities, cantons, counties, Brcko District BiH participated in the work of working groups, as well as numerous international institutions and organisations, as well as representatives of NGOs and civil society, all of which were around 150. Within the framework of such working groups, the situation in each area has been analysed in detail, and with the exceptional efforts of experts from working groups, the text of recommendations and proposals for measures for each of the areas has been agreed. After agreeing recommendations within working groups, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees completed or completed the work result of each working group, unified the form and created a draft revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement. The representatives of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees then re-invoked a particular forum of the most responsible organisations and institutions, and reviewed the documents and agreed that it was ready for further proceedings. Then public debates were organised in the larger bh. cities, Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar, Tuzla, Brcko and Bijeljina. During the public debate, all comments and recommendations of the participants were recorded, detailedly analysed, coordinated opinions and recommendations incorporated in the draft document. Finally, a working group was convened, a text was agreed which was then presented at a meeting of the Human Rights and Refugee Ministers with the entity's resolute ministers and the heads of the relevant department in the Brcko District government attended by high-level representatives, UNHCR, OSCE and OHR. It was a final meeting that unanimously ensured the agreement to refer the draft document to the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. For all these allegations you have contributions, I mean, they're even divided. In addition to these three competent international organisations, support for the adoption of this strategy was given by the Governing Board of the Peace Implementation Council these days at the last one of its meetings, which, I quote, 'I welcome the fact that the Council of Ministers adopted the revised strategy, and sent an appeal to the Parliamentary Assembly to ensure its rapid adoption and implementation.' You also have that document delivered. This is one of the most important realized issues and tasks in the Stabilisation and Association Process, and besides PIC, is this recently confirmed by the EU expert team when assessing the state of activity in the strategy review, implementation thoroughly, serious and multi-resorship? The reason why the activity did not go faster lies in the fact that it was a large number of different areas most of which are in the power of lower levels of administration in BiH, and thus co-ordination of activities was more difficult. Certain requirements set up from different sides seemed uncompromising and great work and efforts were made to overcome them and to reach a compromise acceptable solution. There have also been some difficulties in work in some phases due to the alleged conflict of jurisdiction, but certain exclusive requests from individual parties were not acceptable to other participants. A certain vague and conflicting question has even been asked to interpret the OHR in terms of its jurisdiction under the Annex X of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which you have also received in support. Finally, with great effort, good and professional material has been made up, in our opinion, that has been adopted at the 74th meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and is very much linked to certain political agreements that have been led lately. The Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH also discussed the issue of the strategy several times in a few months, while adopting the revised strategy itself, the Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations and the adoption of Census Information. Each time the institutions mentioned have confirmed their commitment to resolving the issue of return, and the BiH Parliament has shown its commitment to resolving these issues in the adoption of the 2008 and 2009 budget, when it has allocated 35 million annually for return purposes and another 10 million for the needs of Srebrenica's recovery and development, as well as 10 million for three years for the purposes of electrification of return settlements, which unfortunately was not until two years ago. This commitment is definitely confirmed by the BiH House of Representatives' conclusion on the need for credit borrowing of BiH for the purposes in question of 400 million KM, which is also directly linked to the adoption of this revised strategy. So, all activities of different bodies in BiH regarding Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement, therefore, with the need for credit borrowing, the census and the development of the return programme and others, are directly related to the adoption of this strategy, and many letters of agreement and support of interested domestic and international organisations and institutions are in addition. With all this in mind, we propose to adopt the unanimous conclusions of the BiH Council of Ministers on this issue, i.e. adopt the proposal for a revised strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement, with the conclusions of the Council of Ministers adopted with the basic text of the strategy discussed and chaired by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25391	Thank you. Let's work. Mr. Niko Lozančić, Mr. Izetbegović, answered first, believe me. There's no technique, but he answered right away. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25392	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25393	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25394	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidents and members of the Council of Ministers, the Honorable Guests, here we are today at the opportunity to have another important act in front of us, another one of
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25395	A little quiet, please patience. NO ONE
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25396	: well-written strategies we adopt or do not adopt, but we have been discussing all of them for a tremendously long time and here with different arguments we are discussing. From the list reported for this debate, you will see that this finding is absolutely correct. Until, like all of you, a few days ago, I got more different letters from essential institutions, I didn't, I don't have to say, even know how important the document we need to discuss today is and possibly adopt it. This fact and this burden of responsibility for such an important document, indeed, made me think deeply about both this strategy and everything this strategy should, and would not provide, about everything that it was supposed to provide before it, and it was not secure, and it was as if it had never been, and that is why it should be revised. I am already thinking about when this revised strategy will be revised again and how important it will be when it appears on the agenda in front of this home. I haven't, to be honest, read or seen a strategy that's being revised, so I don't know if it's better her or this audited one. I don't know who wrote that strategy, but I can see that this was written by all the experts on these issues themselves, and I must say: honestly, honestly and seriously, I am giving credit to the Council of Ministers who made this strategy, first of all, that all those who want, so who want to, first of all, see honestly what those who are in the category and who are concerned with this strategy, and every honor and truly gratitude for doing so. This one is written in a very polite language that doesn't irritate anyone, nor can it motivate anyone to object to anything. For more than 20 pages, the problems faced by all those who hold back are recorded, that is to say, all those who, by name and last name, have been assigned by their parents to add another descriptive adjective by which they should differ from all those who have not enriched their name with this descriptive adjective. They're called refugees, exiles or displaced persons, we see now they have a category of returnees. Many of them, and many of us, do not know the difference between these concepts. The best translation into the comprehensible folk language for all of these names was given by one famous Bosnian Herzegovina artist in one of his monodramas, when he translated the concept of refugees as a description for people who avoid them all, and that's just the way it is. These are the people who are all avoiding, and those who have forced them to become undesirable people, and those who have promised them honey and milk in places of new foster care, and those who declarely invite them to return and pray to Bog that they do not return. They're literally avoided by everyone. 61 They don't need anyone. They're just a burden. Many of them, of whom everyone avoids, and do not know that we have had a Strategy so far, and especially that 13 years after the war we are still reviewing them, we are developing strategies of vital importance for them, for these evasive people. Many who listen to me today will be amazed at the way I approach this too important act in this high house, so perhaps they will resent the language I use. A lot of people won't agree with me, and some of them might start avoiding me, too. The strategy will be adopted with me and without me, because the letters mentioned above show how important it is for her to be adopted, and as far as I'm concerned, I've already been in the category of the one everyone avoids, so I won't be new if someone, because of what I'm saying here today, is avoiding me again, because it's much harder to be in the category that I've been in. All these years since Dejton, we've been talking about aneks vii., we've been adopting programs, we've been bringing strategies, we've been giving out money, and the results are very thin. Some will say it isn't, some will say the results have. I will say that these are just symbolic results of a strictly controlled return that should serve as an excuse for both us and the UNHCR and all those who have worked on implementing the return that something is still happening, that something has happened, but also an excuse for the money spent for those purposes. Have we ever really had a return strategy or have we had a strategy of controlled and strictly limited return? How is it that hundreds of thousands and perhaps more than a million pre-war inhabitants of this country suddenly hated their home, their homelands, their ancestors' graves, and loved some of them until then unknown destinations and ends? How did it happen that almost half of the country's pre-war inhabitants were moved from their hearths, not one by one, but in groups of several tens of thousands and columns of as many miles long? How is it that in the same or approximately same groups and columns they did not return to their hearths? How is it that no one in this country knows exactly how much money is invested in the return process today, and it's invested, and it's certainly not small amounts? How come, at least in the light of this strategy, we have no indication how many people have really returned to their hearths, how many have chosen new destinations on BiH territory and how many in some other countries? How is it that returnees to their hearths are restored by a dozen square meters per head of a surviving family member, and those who have chosen to settle in the territory where their ethnic group is ruling ten times more? How come we haven't even closed the collective centers yet? There are many questions that there is no answer or may be, but because of the fine language, we are not ready to answer those answers yet. The Dayton Peace Accords, war and peace ended: whether or not something else has changed and whether the ambience in which hundreds of thousands of people have escaped have really changed by the signature of Dejton. Did that ambience change in the meantime, did it change? How much has this environment changed today? He stopped shooting, shelling, destroying, at least in mass proportions. How many returnees have been killed, how many mined return home and worship? We don't have any indicators about it, because it's not nice to hear it, let alone talk about it. And what else? Almost nothing, or maybe it is. If so, is it in the right direction? At the time when the columns of people who are all avoiding, which some have called an ethnic cleansing policy, parallel to that were created are administrative and territorial, judicial, security, education, social, health... systems, set up according to principle: one territory one people and one leader. Others in that territory were not desirable, they had to leave. They were fired from work, their houses burned down and destroyed. Many have been imprisoned or killed by various types of 62 pressures, motivated to move from the former hearths to their ethnic territories. That's how most ethnic villages, cities, cantons, entities, schools, universities, courts, security services, armed forces, electrical industries, telecoms, mail, railways, and what else. And all that stuff on most ethnic territory. And then we began to promote the return of those who everyone avoids in a territory that is no longer theirs, to schools that are no longer theirs, to companies that are no longer theirs, to municipalities that are no longer theirs. What happened? With strong pressure from the international community, it is the fastest action that has been carried out: apartments were returned where only tenant rights existed at the time, which were very fast and very expressly privatised under very favourable conditions, thus creating a legal assumption that all those who did not want to live in municipalities that did not belong to them and who did not want to send children to schools that were not their own and to suffer at all all all forms of discrimination against those who were in the minority, and who were left without anything, made it impossible for them to return to the jobs from which they were expelled. They sold on a fast hand acquired property, i.e. just bought apartments, and with what funds they returned to their ethnic destinations or bought tickets for one of the world's destinations. So we have paper return data, and our returnees in the meantime settle one of the newly created settlements in the majority ethnic environments or repair a demographic image of some of the neighboring or less neighbouring countries of the world. In the meantime, despite a declarative push for return, municipal administrations are hired exclusively by members of the majority people. In cantonal situations, too, in entity as well. In newly created ethnic companies, only ethnically similar are employed, in schools they teach exclusively ethnically similar. The communal infrastructure is dominantly operated for ethnically similar settlements, etc. And then we're building a return strategy, we're reviewing it, re-created how truly we want people to go back to their hearths. In doing so, we count on the passage of time, the assimilation of potential returnees in some new destinations, and the natural cycle of extinction of older ones. The really desired process is rounding up. There are fewer who are even thinking about coming back. Children from refugee colonies became adults who formed their families and added to their homes, secured existence in some new environments, schools, businesses, institutions, etc. Their parents – tired of unfulfilled promises of unsatisfactory bureaucrats, uncertainty and imperceptibility – either die sadly somewhere abroad or accept some kind of life in newly formed settlements, comforting themselves at least the nearness of children and grandchildren. They don't even think about coming back. I don't know who we're making and reviewing already made strategies today: the international community, ourselves, or any of the countless associations that live on a story about people that everyone avoids. If we really want to realize Annex VII, we have to do a lot more than revise and adopt this or similar strategy. We need to make a complete deviation from the further creation of an environment in which we're only sure if we're in a territory where our ethnic group is an absolute majority. We must also be able to get a job in a telecom that is not controlled by our ethnic group, in a municipality where the head is not from our political party or our ethnic group. We must have schools where our children will not listen that criminals are only from their ethnic group, in which they can speak and write, and also listen to lectures in their native language. We need to completely change the concept, then we won't need these strategies. We need a brand-new constitutional concept that will not produce inequality, discrimination and 63 uncertainty. A concept that I'm only sure of if my ethnic group is pushing or some other ethnic group has produced over a million of those that are all avoiding. This and such concept is necessary to change, in order to create an ambience so that everyone can live, work, be safe and enjoy all human rights, no matter how much, in the area where they choose to live, their ethnic group is numerous. Let's not expect that any strategy in the concept that produces inequality, discrimination and uncertainty will improve the situation. We're just fooling ourselves and what's worse, we're still cheating and lying to those who have been cheated and exposed so many times already. And that's why I won't support this strategy, and I'm leaving all of you to choose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25397	I have to tell you, Niko, that you've spent two replicas. All right, time. Let's go now, let's go in turn, Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25398	So I think it's one really comprehensive material that gave us all the basic data, a good analysis and conclusions where he focused on the most important things. If you can talk about some shortcomings of an innovative strategy, let's say we adopt what we have in 2009 on tables, which we didn't have in 2007. The SDA asked for it to be in the Council of Ministers' work plans and this home in 2007. [[Common discussion]] The next thing you know is the lack and what to fix, unlike this first one, is that this strategy lacks the ultimate one focus that would actually be one action plan where you quantify what needs to be done, how much it costs, who will do it, within which deadlines. In that sense, my colleague Sadik Ahmetović will offer one conclusion. Also, such an action plan with precise projects and programmes is probably the basis for obtaining the credit that we concluded a month ago of 400 million KM that would support this implementation of Annex VII. I don't think we're gonna be able to get that loan without clear programs and projects. This strategy discusses the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people. The SDA will offer a law called the 'Proportional Representativeship Act', which will require that..., therefore, commitment be followed by the Constitutional Court's decision, which was then supported by the OHR decisions of Mr. Petrič's time to make this concrete and to enter the field. I think there's got to be an incentive fund that wouldn't just drive people into their pre-war places, but it would also stimulate them. So if they have a salary, say, in Sarajevo 700 KM, let them get at the Drina 1,200 or vice versa. Srbin who are interested in coming to Sarajevo to raise their salaries compared to what they have in the current place where they work. It is said that Sarajevo has become a Muslim city, is the capital that belongs to only one nation. I think Sarajevo would, for example. It should be preceded by one of the stimulating funds and that other nations return to the Sajevo and by the same logic that Bošnjak return already where they are interested, Hrvat too. That stimulating fund wouldn't cost much. If thousands of people were stimulated, which is real, it would be a couple million a year. So we'll soon have on the benches a proposal from the SDA on the proportional representation of the people in the administration, in the police, etc., so please support it. Then we'd have three instruments. We'd have this 400-million-dollar borrowing decision, we'd have this embedded strategy, we'd have this law on proportional representation, and really with those three, we could finally do something of quality. They're going to be asked in this strategy at the end and the question of people who don't want to go back and I think they have the right to, is there no compensation, help is to stay where they want to stay. People have suffered all kinds of humiliation and frustration and I understand them. However, I think they always have priorities, and in any case it is more important to support the return, because by this process we reintegration the country and we oppose that violence and force can so dramatically change the conditions of life in one country. So, in order to force segregation and ethnically change the image of a country. Therefore, I think we can talk about the remainder and compensation, but that far more priority, far greater resources need to be focused on returning, and that is on a sustainable return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25400	Slavko Jovičić, I apologize, have I seen well, is it a replica, whose replica it is?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25401	Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25402	Mr. Lozančić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25403	Mr. Chairman, I apologize, first of all, I was late, I must admit that (no, it is not, it is not Mr. Izetbegović) our views are in line, but I must admit that I was late thinking about Mr. Lozančić's speech. The vice-president, Mr. Lozančić, said so much that I agree with and, by the way, that I could hear such a speech in 1996 on all sides of BiH, I think we would have a completely different picture today. And what's, therefore, a lot of what's been said is actually true. But his conclusion doesn't correspond to everything he said. He said he wouldn't support this strategy, and the speech was like this. Eh, now I would ask, of course later, if he feels the need, to keep my attitude completely in this very important discussion, which, rightly speaking, I heard: is it something missing in this strategy, what should I build up so that we can do, or what is it? 65 I just can't figure it out, I can't catch the link between the content of the exhibit and this conclusion. I'd like to repeat this, this has been a very, very important discussion for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25404	More questions. You've spent two replicas, you've spent two replicas, you can, you can, I'm kidding, you've talked a long time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25405	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Džaferović, I was hoping you needed less time to react. First, I'm gonna make a little joke like this, but secondly, if you followed closely, as you say you did, you could draw the conclusion: that the ambience, the overall ambience in this country, no matter what strategy it was, will not ensure a return. Without creating an ambience in which everyone, simplifiedly, will feel so beautiful and secure, no matter how much he is, will need no strategy. So we won't have to motivate people, pay them to live in their own house. So we have a situation now that people feel insecure, so we can get them to, I don't know, motivate them with money, I don't know what else, but they feel all insecure in the overall environment, and that environment can, unfortunately, change. I'm not, here's the president warning me that I've already been in violation of the time that's scheduled for discussion, so now I'm talking about constitutional provisions that are discriminatory, or we all know that when we talk about it, we have a lot of what's discriminatory or that in itself keeps people from thinking that he's coming back to his home. And in order for us to do that, we can't do this strategy, I've praised, I mean, the strategy has given as much material as people have problems, those who dare. But be careful, so what can I offer? It's not once the Ministry, I'm talking to the Committee, I'm trying to say, I'm giving credit to both the Minister and the Ministry for offering such a strategy, but it can't be an answer to this big question. So, the answer to the big question: creating a completely new environment in BiH that won't have all that, here's what I mentioned, not to repeat again.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25406	I don't really see the point, but here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25407	If you don't see the point, I'm out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25408	Well, I don't know what it's replicating, I really don't know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25409	Well, let me just say it for a second. So, Mr. Lozančić, just the way is to establish an environment. So I understood the discussion, even though thank you for thinking I don't need much time to figure it out. However, some things should be well chewed, well chewed, and then say something, but it is 66 times that through this strategy, among other things, we are making an ambience. It's nice to meet you. It's clear to me now. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25410	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25411	Mr. Chairman, chairing the Council of Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, I will welcome the efforts of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry to bring this strategy, but I will also say that no strategy will solve the problems discussed on this strategy. That's the point. I would like to remind you that when we adopted the budget that I then suggested that of those indicative 35 million marks intended for the budget there were always stressed for refugee returns, and I always stressed three things that were completely equal and there was no favoring either return, nor staying, nor compensation of property, they were fully equal. Then I asked to predict 5 million and set up a fund, and then also to remind when we had a session of poslanik asking, the Council of Ministers answers that I then asked the Honorable Minister for Refugees who gave me the answer then that it would be, and I can also see from this strategy that it is just like that, I will not say, for formal reasons, there are here and essential reasons, everything is listed on page 27 for compensation and compensation. Well, I've got memos from several refugee unions in front of me, but I've got to split it up from the RS and the Federation, so I have this association that represents all the refugees at BiH level, and they all appear with different demands. So, even before in a number of their statements here in Parliament and in the media, I have always called on all people to return to their hearths, because it is their guaranteed human right. I also welcomed them, so I emphasized, say, for the RS that Bošnjak and Hrvat return. I also welcomed those fellow Srbin to return to the Federation. And all of these were good intentions and good wishes, and the result and realization of such intentions was never even at the close level that I stood up for. So, I will begin, and I welcome this exhibition by Mr. Izetbegović to return Srbin to Sarajevo, but it is an illusion. When the Srbin left Sarajevo the most, they left 150,000, and no one knows the exact data, so I won't play with the numbers either, but a huge number of people sold apartments for a budget, 20, 30,000 marks, possibly 50,000, and now they're staying in other environments, and now that they want to come back, because they see Sarajevo is developing, it's the capital, now it would take them 500 or 400,000 marks to buy their apartment back that they sold for 20, 30,000 marks, then it was time for them to survive. So, that story has nothing, it's an illusion, unfortunately. Not that there's no return speech, but we're witnessing that in 2009, people are moving out. Now, of course, there's another situation, objective circumstances, a crisis, that needs to survive. Then maybe there were other things, and it was always respected that someone called it from the politicians and it was known that it was in public, in the stampede to get us all out of Sarajevo, it's not true. You know how, people, the war is over, and you wait 1996 in your apartment for someone who lives nearby, who will be the majority, and ward until two months ago, the worst is psychosis and panic, and that nobody could stop, and they all respected them, as someone, so today they'll say, Momčilo Krajišnik said you wear signs, graves, pillars. Who could have listened to him? If everyone hadn't made their own private decision and realized it was impossible for 67 to stay in the middle, because the war was over two months ago, I'm talking about that time. Here, today is over 13 years ago, so fortunately we don't have that kind of problem, but we have other species. So I asked and now I'm asking and I'm asking the minister and I'm asking business questions that these three predicted visions in the Dayton Agreement to solve refugee issues, so I would call it equal treatment, I'm not going to talk about the original means and what the ratio would be, but you would have to have indicators. If we hear that there are 153,000 individuals or 47,000 families who would return to their pre-war hearths, then I don't see in this strategy either 5 people and 50 who are looking for or who has covered their demands that demand compensation and compensation for destroyed property. Many will not return for a simple reason, there are countless of them, but this commission or who made the strategy did not make sure that on their destroyed property today businesses were made, near here the capital was built a dump, a central dump, all the buried property is of 10 Serb families, who will return there? And no one to predict it, at least to compensate adequately destroyed their property, maybe people would come back, but how do they get back when there's nothing there, etc. So today, when this action plan is adopted, I will stand up as I have so far, and I will keep repeating that these three visions are equal. Of course, the funds are allocated proportionally to the number of resolutions of certain issues if it is a return, even more so, so let more funds be allocated, if it is a matter of staying what number, but we will need to know that and therefore foreseeable. And, of course, 13 years after the Dayton Agreement that no one, but no one, was obliged, and he was, at least no one took on a moral obligation, and he was, should have been, to form this fund, to form a commission that would make up for people, I repeat, destroyed property. You are witnesses if you follow the media, and you follow, of course, that a petition is currently being signed in RS by refugees and displaced persons, precisely demanding to resolve this issue in this way that I'm talking about, which is that they are compensated for destroyed property where they can't return and can't yet be seen as wanting to return to some social categories, because no one can categorize people in any form, but people are equal and we are talking about protecting their human rights. So it's their basic human right to decide whether to return to the prewar hearth, whether to stay where they are today for 13 years or 10, it doesn't matter whether they're coming from Canada or the United States, so they're going to settle back where they were and choose a new destination or, of course, they're going to ask for it, and they have the right to make up for it. So it's listed here, just when this is about restitution of property, and here I was just hit, but here I am in a special way solving this problem, the truth that I've lost a lot of property, but what else could I have done. Can you expect from campers, and for me campers are sacred no matter what nation they belong to, because these people have passed the greatest gogoths and tortures, can you expect them to go back to where they were taken from their houses as civilians to many casamats of death and, unfortunately, many have ended up being tragically. Those who survived today are still a category of NK people, because no one is doing anything where they live today, and then where they came back in particular. So it's a humiliated category and where mine may be the most endangered, even of the refugees and displaced faces, but they're now three categories. The first thing they had an accident to survive in the war, so they belong to that category that no one cares about, so what belongs to this category is what Mr. Lozančić said to people that everyone avoids, and then people that no one cares about, because there are different problems from social ones to I don't know which, but the main problem is how he's going to survive. 68 So, this whole story that I'm talking about is that these action plans have to be made and I am not going to support this strategy as an MP today for another reason: because I don't see that the fund was formed, and it should have been formed, I received such a promise in this Parliament that the minimum funds for this fund are provided to compensate for the property, that it is at all thought and always preferred, given the priority of the return. I said I support the return, of course, I would never argue, and I am very famous in this House that I have invited everyone, suggested to people, let's make a tent settlement where you want your people to go back, and I will be here to set an example, and you help me solve the issue of Srbin, where let's say the municipality where I come from Hadzic: none of us are working in the Srbin municipality, and there were 27% of us, so that is, 27% would at least, even if we let us work in some municipalities, unfortunately, there are no Srbin there anymore, what are we going to do now. Well, this too, Mr. Izetbegović suggested that it would be that conclusion that proportionally, I would support it, but it cannot succeed in the Federation when Srbin, people, do not return, be aware. Not that I'm affecting them, but they've already started life in certain other areas, and that story is over. We can have good intentions, we can stimulate, give support, call, and the results will be minimal. But I don't want to argue with these results that people are trying to get back to where they're going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25412	I'm asking you to discuss the document that's in front of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25413	The document was, there's no fund anywhere.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25414	We entered the analysis when someone went, where they went, etc., that's another question. So now we're talking about a document that's in front of us. I have a replica of Azra Hadžiahmetović reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25415	Thank you, Chairman. Although you have already exhausted some of my replica in the interventions, here I must express my regret to Mr Lozančić for not being in the hall at the moment, who has opened several large issues and asked whether this strategy is really an answer to this huge issue concerning the restoration of the Bosnian Herzegovina society, or whether this is a strategy for the political environment, or the overall environment for return, etc. Not to mention the specific weight of the question Mr. Lozančić has raised at all, I want to just point you and ask you, indeed, to concentrate on what is on the agenda, and this is the proposal for a revised strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Agreement. Why do I need to do a little bit of urinating in some way? Respecting the discussion Mr. Jovičić recently scored through the discussion, is there a few questions, I just want to mention the need to apostrophemise the dynamics of the implementation of this strategy. We've already been through, spent one quarter this year. I just want to tell you that in a few 69 budgets, we've already had unspent funds, thanks to, under quotes, is this the kind of attitude towards issues like this. Mr. Jovičić knows very well that the strategy does not form a fund. So no strategy can apostrophe the formation of a return fund, etc. We had an initiative of this kind, unfortunately, when perhaps you weren't in this House, but were not supported by your colleagues and colleagues. And I mean, even if it was in this session, but don't argue at all that these issues are solved, but is it a strategy and a revised return strategy that needs to form a fund and solve all the issues? I just want to mention, I know the attitudes that you and Mr. Lozančić mentioned in terms of the reserve of some of the people that this strategy focuses on. I know there's a lot of them, but I won't bid at all, because as long as there's one man who wants to come back, we need to give him this framework to be so, just that it's only one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25416	Let's get back to the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25417	Let me just say it. I've had some technical problems, but I'm also giving up the discussion and it might be good for my colleagues and colleagues to think a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25418	Thank you. Well, here's a dozen people reported. So, if we follow practice for ten minutes to talk, I'm afraid today's session won't be over. But I don't have the ambition to deny anyone, but I ask you to stick to the measure of this document that is before us. Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25419	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I won't be long since I see how many people have been reported, but I will try two or three sentences to say about the importance of having a strategy like this. Considering that aneks vii.. It predicts in its segments the return of people to its hearths and such written material that we are going to do the return of people, exiled people, we are, therefore, never written anywhere in the world, as far as I know, so even those who worked on all this could not have some kind of source to be used to carry out the return process. I consider this one another of the attempts to make this a very important issue, the issue of the implementation of Annex VII. We return to the BiH centre again, given that in recent years, we have had one such situation for the last two or three years, that the process of returning to BiH has almost stopped talking and the fewer who have worked in the process and possibly provided money for this very important issue. Here today we also have recommendations from very important institutions in BiH from the international community from which we are recommended to adopt this strategy that is certainly well written. But we also have a paradox that the same OHR a few years ago abolished its department that dealt with this issue. I think 70 that it was one of the mistakes of the international community in BiH, given that in BiH we still have institutional obstacles when it comes to the process of returning to BiH and with one such approach that the OHR once had, I think these obstacles could be better off in this last period and in the future. The return process or the strategy written somewhere in 2002? The process of return was somewhat before, and therefore the process was dealt with by different organisations, especially NGOs who took a lot of money and spent it mostly on themselves, and very little on those for whom the money was directed. I think that this strategy, which was written in 2002, has brought this process back to the framework of the BiH system in one particular way that is not yet in sufficient shape to... this very important issue is channeled in the sense that those who are users of the final funds are them, not some different organisation, institutions, NGOs that are different... create projects to only satisfy their form, and never, and never the form that will result in money being spent in the maximum sense of the word for those who need it. I call on this Parliament today to adopt: we adopt this strategy, because this strategy has indeed identified in the best possible way all of these problems... during which the return process has taken place in this period in the last seven, eight or ten years. The truth is there is no action plan in this strategy, but or there are no deadlines, which are resources, which are projects, etc. because we have therefore a belief from people dealing with this problem that there will be action plans that will clearly define these segments. So I will present this conclusion today, which I wrote, which reads: 'It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Human Rights and the Refugees to make an action plan for the implementation of the revised Annex VII strategy as soon as possible. The Dayton Agreement, with precise projects, project holders, the financial amount and the time-limit for the realization of them." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25420	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, since there are ten more reported here, but there are only 15 of us in the O.R., I suggest we take a 10 minute break to make the quorum. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25421	Please take your seats to continue our work. Please continue the work, here we have the quorum, hopefully the others will join. Let's take the turn, Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25422	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I won't be speaking for very long, perhaps, since certain people have already said a lot of things that should have been said, but I'm going to start right off with these debaters. 71 I think Mr. Lozančić has noticed one of the most important things about returning people, which is that political assumptions must be created for their return, which means that the Constitution must be made, not as it is in Dayton because it generated that people do not actually return to their hearths or move from their hearths. Mr. Slavko discussion absolutely confirmed it, although he discussed the opposite. He was talking about 150,000 Srbin moving out of Sarajevo, that, let's say, they were displaced or whatever you want. They were 150 thousand, unfortunately, gone when they saw the Dayton Agreement. That's the truth. I said in this home that when I walked down the street from the Veterinary College to the Holiday Inn, my soul hurt when I saw the gorilla of the entire Grbavica, and the war had already ended and the Dayton Agreement was signed. So, we as politicians have to think about it, and we have to tell ourselves that we have to create political assumptions for the return of people. Without it, any strategy will not end properly. And there's one more thing I have to say. People are wrong when they say: someone will never come back, or, here to paraphrasise Slavko, Srbin will never come back. We wait 30 years and we will see how many Srbin will return to their hearths or how many Bošnjak who have decided not to return to their hearth and stay abroad, and you will see how many will return. And that is why I am that when we look politically, when we think politically, and we are obliged because we are chosen... we can never conclude and say that the 1991 census will only apply until 2014 when we make a new census. The 1991 census in political action, organisation, must be valid until at least 2030, because people will return, change and continue to live normally on the basis on which they believe they should live. This strategy that's here in front of us, I'll definitely support it, that's what I'm saying, for a number of reasons. First, which she is quite specific and, secondly, what Ahmetović supported, because he said he would support her, it is normal that I will support her, because the strategy of the man who lived the googotes, thinking it was correct, certainly there is one excuse to believe him. I certainly will not support his conclusion, which he said, that there is a need to do an actional revision of a strategy, or a plan, because it already exists. It's already in the draft by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and I'm surprised that the minister didn't say that it was just waiting for the adoption of this strategy to leave it in further analysis and movement, because one without another is gone. In order to achieve this plan or this strategy, we must remember that it is actually the work of certain authorities, I will not say in the entity, or in the canton, or in the Federation, or at the level of the state, but have greatly contributed that people do not return to their hearths. Here, I'll just say from that area I've been working on for a long time, we'll say health care. As people... return to Doboj, and while people have started to return to Doboj, then the Health Insurance Fund said that these people can no longer be treated in Tesnya. And people haven't gotten the trust yet, because there was a fear of treatment in them, here, in the hospital where I used to work, and Živković certainly knows what hospital it is. What does that mean? It means sometimes that by our acts, sublegal acts, some other stuff, actually thinking that that's how we improve people's return, we're actually making it impossible for people to come back. 72 I'll remember one chance. I was in the government in 2000, let's go, or in 2002, I can't remember when the government decided that all police officers who return to RS would take the place to give a pay difference to the Federation. And you think it's done. They deceived people once, and they will never return. Therefore, there are many things, for me, along with this strategy, and the most important implementation of this strategy. If we look further into this strategy, which I consider to be other than economic ones, which are very significant, and financial resources, although we often propose impossible financial resources, and when you suggest something that can simply be solved, for example. to make a decision on 2% of all employees at the level of the BiH state in the Refugee Return Fund, then says: it is impossible. Or say, that's what the communists suggested. Yes, that's what Tito suggested, but he was a smart man, he said 2% for Montenegro's recovery and he had overstretched funds for Montenegro's recovery. And we, we pretend to be blind and deaf and say to ourselves, we invent hot water or we do this, or we do what we do, and we actually do something that's the opposite of the interest of coming back. I will return to education which is very important and which is a disaster with us in BiH. Look, there are still two schools under one roof, there are various programs that apply on the other side. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So, how much of that deal is respected? Very little. Because you need to... and you need to allow people to do it. That's where certain efforts are made not to realize it. And, in the end, if we as parliamentarians understood that there is a rebus every day in politics and there is always twice in politics. Which way you're going to go, we need to make a decision, but we always need to know when we go the wrong way that we can't go back to that start again, but we're coming back to another political crossroads. Then we must say, please, let us take the last step that is very important for the return of the refugees and adopt this strategy. And I have to say normally: the international community has been very helpful in financial resources, but the international community has been able to do little to get back. They don't even know they've made it. Here, I'll tell you right away: in 1996 I was a small party MP, three of us were only in the Assembly, Party for BiH, and then I suggested that P2 form should not be accepted. And you think anyone voted for it except the three of us. Niko. It showed up 11 years later or 10 years later that it was a disaster. Furthermore, to me it's inconceivable, it's inconceivable, it's designed to equalize, social and private sectors to even themselves. Well, that can't be done, so nowhere in the world is equal. But it's evened out which once again it's convenient for people not to return to their hearths. But either way, we have another situation now, another intersection, let's take this other intersection, adopt this strategy and move forward to help people get back as much as possible, at least those who want to come back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25423	Mirko Okolić. Excuse me, incorrect quote, Živković. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25424	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Professor Ajanović knows that Doboj has always been an open city and when he worked at the hospital in Doboj and lived in Tešnja, as his son is now working there, and lives in Tešnja, but many of his incorrect allegations have asked me here to come out and ask the minister if this is the Party's policy for BiH. The very discussion of my esteemed colleague and your sentence when you spoke about this strategy, I mentioned it once on this speaker, I listened to you through BH radio, that, among other things, the aim of this strategy is to relax the atmosphere on the ground and, let me say, to paraphrasise it, to prevent the possibility of abuse or frequent use of entity voting. If you're thinking of that goal, please explain it a little bit and I know the way I'm going to deal with it when I vote on this strategy.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25425	Thank you. You could've asked me that too. It was closer to you than going out for a pay phone. We have a replica, whether or not it's Jovičić's quote. Here you go, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25426	Well, I really don't have any reason to replicate to a respected professor, but this will be more... as an explanation. It's not a replica, it's not an excuse, it's an explanation. First of all, I have no right and I didn't say Srbin won't come back. I said Srbin don't come back, so it's a constant, so then I made a parallel, unfortunately, in 2009, they move out. That's what I said. First, I don't know the mood of those people whether they're coming back or not, I don't know, but I said they're not coming back. I know the information that they're not coming back. That's the essence of my discussion. And secondly, last night, who watched television, those 20 unfortunate Srbin protesting in Calais and asking for one single place to be given to them in the municipality. Well, of course, I didn't expect the captain today to replace a Bošnjak and put that Srbin, at least one. But it's exactly the kind of footage that will bring down all the possible strategies that we bring here and affect negatively people who even have a desire to come back. Because if in 2009, in the villages, here, they built houses for them, but they don't have electricity, who's going to make someone go back there with what strategy? Besides, I'm never gonna do it, nor am I right. But I repeat, Professor, for clarification, they don't want to come back, I didn't say they'd never come back. Whether it'll be in 20, 30 years, I don't know, but they don't want facts and figures saying they're not coming back, unfortunately, and in time they're moving out now. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25427	It can, Slavko, wish, even those who desire. Okay, please, Mirko Okolić, please, here's Ekrem Ajanović, we're not gonna get anywhere with a show like this. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25428	I'll replicate for a while.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25429	It's only 10 minutes short.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25430	There's a fool everywhere, that's true. There are fools among Bošnjak, there are among Srbin, there are among Hrvat, especially...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25431	There's one among people.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25432	And others, let's go, especially among politicians, but my discussion was aimed at preventing and, let's call them after... whatever you want, to prevent them... from allowing it, because it certainly reduces people's return. I think we have to work affirmably to get people back, because... old age will come and I wouldn't leave my Raduša if you gave me the whole of New Njujork. Therefore, it will surely... And as for this colleague of mine, Živković, I don't know why he's replicated at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25433	We've made that clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25434	If he needs to talk, that's what he and I are gonna talk about in the hallway, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25435	Please come back, please. Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25436	Thank you, Chairman. Here, today we're talking about this strategy and I thought it was just something that would be the general pleasure of everyone. I got, with the material, two letters. It is one of the alliances of displaced persons and returnees in BiH who are keenly in favour of this strategy and who propose that this strategy be adopted. Then, a second letter from the Alliance for the Retention of Refugees, Displaced and Returnees of the RS who are heartily proposing that this strategy not be adopted. It can be seen immediately from this that this 75 strategy failed to meet its goal and did not satisfy the public, or it did not satisfy those to whom it should be intended, or intended. If they had said that they had to support each other, I would have done so, or if they had said both, I would have done the same, and I would have been satisfied, because they would have been satisfied, because that strategy is precisely because of them and it was done. However, I will not speak of the good things of this strategy because it was said by the minister and the chairman of the Council of Ministers and other MPs, and I see here quite a list of people who participated. I'll say why this strategy may not be supported by us today. In the case of compensation for damages, i.e. compensation, it is the objection of the people of the RS who seek the same under the law, i.e. under the Dayton Peace Agreement, the right to compensation, i.e. to remain. This strategy favors a return which is normal and is not a problem and should be and is best if people have a desire and will to return to their own, however, and according to the Constitution... The Dayton Peace Accords and other human rights guarantee that they can also stay where they are now. There's not enough emphasis on it, and people are unhappy with it. Everyone has the right to choose where they live, whether to come back, whether to stay or something else. And that's why he insists here on setting up a Fair Compensation Fund that didn't get good support in this platform in this strategy, and I see that in this strategy it's said, here I am also going to quote: 'there is resistance to the introduction of a formal compensation mechanism in BiH', so... it is recognised that there is resistance. I think that through this strategy we should also remove this problem which is not a major problem in the whole of this strategy, that then both populations will be satisfied and that this strategy will probably be able, to the satisfaction of all of us and ourselves, to adopt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25437	Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25438	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here I am to thank Akšamlija Zlatko, Aleksić Mustafi, Alijagić Arežina, Alijagić Sulejman, Brankica Brankici, Bahtijarević Selena, Bajraktarević Seleni, Bašić Slavoljub and so 149-or 149 names, concluded with Zuljević-Seftić Vesna. So I add these to the next page, and I don't see, when the minister thanked me, which I wouldn't thank, because 149 people worked for two years on 43 pages. And we're here today talking epics about this document. I'm sorry that for these 149 listed and these here on the other side, which are not listed, there's no indication of how much money they spent while they did this strategy, how many of them got the funds, and working on these jobs professionally, either in the Ministry or elsewhere, etc. 76 Please, several hundred people have worked on the document for two years, we have said here since 2007, is that right, so we would come up with a document which, unfortunately, we have heard here from these discussions,...we have heard here from these discussions: there are many really and too many objections for so many experts and for so many spent money. I'm not talking about the lack of a document. That's what my colleagues used to talk about. So I wouldn't talk about it. I won't speak, I won't even suggest the conclusion that we thank each other in all our strategies in the future, because I don't know why we thanked each other, and in others we didn't thank anyone who had anything to do with it. I won't say how and where and now military housing is in this strategy, 15 years after the war, that there aren't those who decided to stay, that some things are repeated, that some things aren't logical like. Points 2 and 3 where it is said to ensure that the Ministry of Civil Affairs connects the process of reviewing the Annex VII implementation strategy. with a process run by the State Prosecutor's Office in preparation for the adoption of a state war crimes strategy, it provides coordination to help improve the returnee's security situation. The nature of such coordination requires further joint activities of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Office of the State Prosecutor's Office and I am sorry that there is no Civilian Minister here to ask him how he thinks to provide this coordination and how he sees this coordination at all and what the aim of this coordination is and the possible effect of this coordination. And of course, there are other objections. In this regard, we cannot deny that this strategy is an attempt, so it is an attempt to help solve the issue certainly of a category that is certainly the most difficult in this society today. I have to say, I'm not sure that this has been particularly successful in trying to solve this issue, and I believe that there have been too many people working on this for this quality of the document. I don't think this many people should have worked, but their result had to be different from what we got here today... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25439	Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25440	I thank you, Chairman. I will therefore, briefly, given these many discussions, stress that it is quite visible that perhaps one thematic session should be held when it comes to this return strategy and that we could respond in one quality way and make appropriate remarks on all these challenges that are ahead of us, when it comes to resolving the issues of return and other matters related to this strategy. I would agree with much of the discussion held by the esteemed Vice-President Niko Lozančić, although I will vote in favour of this strategy, given that this is however much of a contribution to resolving these issues. When it comes to thanking, here I will also take the opportunity to, I think, be here without any possible additional of this... some special emphasis thanks to the coordinator who worked on this strategy, Mr. Mario Nenadić, who is indeed a man who does these issues extremely well and works in one quality way. 77 What I would like to do here when action plans on the implementation of this strategy are being made, in particular, to highlight: to adopt a specific additional action plan on sustainable return. To that end, I will suggest one conclusion and I think he will be useful to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to do something special on this plan. And my proposal for a conclusion would read about: 'It is up to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees that, as part of the proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement constitutes a special additional action plan for sustainable return, with particular reference to the issue of consistent implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision on the constitutionality of the people, the allocation of funds for returnees engaged in agriculture and livestock, the financing of self-employment, micro-creditation and various forms of grants to returnees in the process of vocational training and retraining." It is quite clear that we have a situation on the ground to return property to people, but it is not enough in the process of this sustainable return. So we need to work on this issue much more, more responsibly, more seriously to bring these processes to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25441	Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I will also try very briefly, since there are still colleagues and colleagues who want to speak, and since a lot has already been said here. _______(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm not in charge of you. So, I see today's debate on this return strategy as important because it inevitably raises the issue of the essence of the problem, and that is the problem of the returnee. Secondly, which is eventually determined as some final term of the completion of the return process. So, BiH's willingness to do all that's left to make this relatively small number that remains, which has expressed its desire to return. Unfortunately, we must realize that we as a country have lost the battle with the problem of returning. After 13-14 years, we have almost identical problems coming back as we did 10 years ago. In my opinion, the strategy as a strategy, as a document looking at it formally, has met all these criteria. He's seen good problems, he's made proposals, good suggestions to solve these problems, but in my opinion, we're neither richer nor poorer if we don't adopt this today or adopt this strategy. In my opinion, there are only two strategic goals that are related to the return: to deliver and say that there are no people returning to this 78 political climate that we have in BiH, there is no going back with respect for human rights and freedoms, as we have. You can take care of funds and experts, and whatever you want, you won't do any of that. I was pleased today with my colleague Lozančić's discussion, but I was disappointed that this discussion was not heard in any parliament in BiH, let's say 10 years ago. I can only say that I am pleased that my colleague Lozančić spoke today, perhaps quite emotionally and may be, and say along with that: better ever than never, but with a sad finding that we have lost valuable time on a substantial and more numerous return that we have had a chance to do. You see, after six or seven years we've been building this revised strategy without knowing at this point, here, I don't know today if anyone in this room knows how long there's been a return, how many years ago there have been returns. You don't have any information. And this is nothing and it won't be anything, no matter what 100 people did. And now we wait six months for 100 people to gather again and make an action plan. Here, they need action plans, people! What strategy? I repeat, until people have basic human rights where they want to go back, where they have the right to return, where they have the right to education, to treat, to work, to talk to us for free! So, I would like to point out here that in addition to what it says here that we as the BiH Parliament must be aware of the responsibility, that we must create a political and security and legal and security environment not only for the return but for the overall life. If all life were normal in BiH, this would not be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25444	Mr. Jašarević is gone, we're skipping. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25445	Here, Mr. President, there's been a lot of noise, I'll cut it short. I'm not the kind of guy who does this kind of work then says they find a million grudges. There may be a million grudges but the essence of the story that yet one strategy is long worked, long prepared, not ideal, and yet it gives one frame that itself is not enough. Only after this document is it necessary to approach and work. So I don't want much on the strategy, because I think it's just a framework and in 90 days we need to get this strategy worked out and that's the key to the story. So, the condition at all that we're talking about this strategy is that the plan is how we realize it, which we have to get in the next 90 days and then make a final decision about it. And I can agree with colleagues who, as a guess, have raised the question of the ambience of everything we've done. It certainly stands, and it's certain that at this point we can't say that we have an optimal return environment. But I'm also energetic against any deadlines and dead lines of determination in terms of return and that's what I want to say here. And that ambience will not be created overnight, gentlemen. We will one day be a country in the EU. I'm sure of it and it will be, it doesn't matter now, in 10 or 15 years. And then both Gorazde and Stolac and Dervent will be in a much wider space, a much better environment than any of us can assume now. And why should we now close the possibility that someone, even the next generation, does not exercise that right to return to any part of BiH. It's the key to the story. And are we ready for that kind of story? And let's not idealize, because now in this recession we can accumulate several hundred million marks and invest, and international donors slowly raise their hands. But let's do 500 million in debt, 79 we said in this Parliament... the program that we're going to spend and let's go who's responsible for it. And talking now strategy worked so much, so much, let it go. I think I have a moral right to say this, and let me just, I was Minister of the Government of the Republic of BiH when the war for refugees started. And in the government of the Federation, when it was signed... the first minister and established the Ministry of State, launched projects, it doesn't matter, I was removed quickly for some other reasons, but the fact is that we have established procedures, we have established structures, but we don't have enough energy and flow in them, and this is my message to people in governments and the Council of Ministers that, with all the efforts they make, there is no criticism, with the help of Parliament and with this programme measures can be sent a positive message. We owe that positive message to send. And today I want through this strategy so not to deny it but to create that ambience, here's what Mr. Lozančić was talking about, I absolutely agree. But you see, we already have the data here, gentlemen, the return statistics, let me. 'The official statistics have registered over a million returns to BiH,' it says here, I am now reading, 'about 450 thousand refugees', so these are people who were in third countries, 'and about 580,000 displaced persons'. And 'of that', these are very important things, don't think that I read for no reason, '72% have returned to the Federation of BiH and 26% to RS'. I'm just talking statistics. I'm not talking about quality and why and how. But let the statistics be known. And if I don't go in now, out of how percentageual, '62% of Bošnjak', I want 100% of Bošnjak back and Srbin and Hrvat, just '13% of Hrvat'. And I'd like to, in general, and I'd like this ministry, the resolution minister and teams of people to define where these priorities are, where it's possible to make a real breakthrough in return and where there has been no relationship so far. And let me remind you, let's not underestimate the results of coming back after such cataclysms, because according to UNHCR statistics... at least 40% of people never return. It's a world experience. And let's not underestimate these returns results and let's not demotize people on their way back. In some places almost all the people have returned. And they are, thank Bog. But some of them aren't. In some ESFOR, what they're saying, in 1996, this one entered and addressed many open issues, and the same approach had no place to open space and move obstacles to it. We need to be aware of that. And that is the responsibility of both international structures and the international community. And I don't think we should argue with this strategy today. We should support it and ask for a concrete plan of measures and be a key body that has also raised these issues both for the list and for the funds and for the dynamics and try to push. Well, I guess it's gonna come a little bit, I'd say, a little more rational people than me or some of the others, and I'm going to say tomorrow, here, I want to invest in Modrich, in Livn... there are the biggest sources of wind power after testing in Europe right now. I'm going to live there, I'm going to work there. Let's create such an ambience, and no, here, I didn't want to politicize, I wanted to encourage us to send some positive message to those people so that they don't give up on their return and that it's legitimately right and that we will fight as hard as we can. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25446	Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25447	Mr. Chairman, I won't be long either. A lot of that's been said by my colleagues. Indeed, this point deserves much more attention and much more time. What I have pointed out is that this strategy did not take into account the staying and fair compensation as two important issues that should have been 80 to enter here, especially since it is known that most of the population is seeking and supporting such a single question from the RS. This strategy certainly needs to find places and should not wait. We're in the back and there's no back. A lot of money has been spent and it's just a question of how we spent it, to really look at it, and secondly, it's very important to run an analysis of these spent funds. Why do we need this analysis? We need this analysis to revive the strategy project in the right light, to see where the shortcomings are and how to correct them. That's one thing. And especially, if we're thinking about borrowing credit, let's say to what level we've completed our return, and it can never be ideal. And thus, a man who won't come back, if followed by some 50-60,000 marks, you give him that for staying, sign his paper, and he builds himself a house where he wants, and that's the end of the story. I don't see what they'd be running from. A fair fee cannot be avoided. People in courts and centuries will seek their right and it will not disappear, and therefore, if we bring back and staying programme and fair compensation, then we will say: we have 100 million for fair compensation, and we will carry out this revision, and therefore this strategy would indeed find its place to analyse it now further in application. And what's important is that it's some five-year-old thing that could say for sure: we're done coming back, staying and a fair fee 70%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25448	I still have Denis Bećirović reported. Here you go, Denise.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25449	So I think this topic is a key topic for the BiH state and for Parliament and Annex VII. Probably a key annex of the Dayton Peace Agreement. And, while we already have this agenda point, there is probably a time when both this parliament and the BiH institutions and not only in BiH but also outside the country should give their assessment of how much aneks vii. really is. realized. In fact, we have also received some information in this strategy that is at least not encouraging to me. If there were a total of 2.2 million refugees and exiled displaced persons in BiH, and if half of them did not return to their homes, then that is enough message and enough warning for all of us to really see what is happening on that plan. We still have in this country who wants 2,700 people living in the EU in catastrophic conditions in collective centres. But especially serious are the two findings that also stand in this revised strategy. The first finding: many returnees who have returned so far face conditions that threaten their survival at return points. So, what's this about? And the few people who came back are in such a situation that they can't survive, and we want to bring back that great majority. Why are such conditions, why is the situation like this, this is the right place to really talk about it. Also, another serious finding: rarely all restrictions are rooted in discrimination, which is contrary to the principles set out in Annex VII, in the Constitution of BiH, international law. So it's the current state of BiH. And it is quite certain that we today 81 can draw the conclusion that there is no uniform and coherent realization of the key objectives of Annex VII. So we can find out: no Dayton Peace Agreement, no Annex VII. Conventions of non-implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement and Aneks vii.. They are extremely devastating for the future of this country and for the future all three of its peoples and others, not just one people. And we need to express our position on this today. Today, it is also necessary to make clear within this agenda that the Dayton Peace Agreement is not a self-service from which anyone who wants and wants can be taken from it. I don't think we're implementing the current Annex VII. It does not question the need to return to BiH at all, but the non-implementation of Aneks vii., in my opinion, raises the lower territorial organisation units in BiH that were in charge of implementing it and are clearly obstructing it. So the question arises: What are entities doing and what are the cantons in this country doing on the agenda for the return of people and the realization of Aneks vii..? Also, I believe that the process of return must absolutely not be time-limited and that this must be our permanent task and permanent commitment. In this strategy, I have particularly carefully read this section of the education system. And I think he probably, with some other things, has particularly harmful consequences for both his return and his country's future. Is it possible that after 14 years from Dejton to this day we still have local authorities who are reluctant to respect and protect the human rights of returnees, that we still do not have harmonised state and entity laws in the field of education? That we also have school names, that we have textbooks, etc. who favor in various parts of BiH only one nationality, and not the other, that, for example, schools mark the religious holidays of only one religion, not the other. And then how do people come back? So the big problem is administrative and bureaucratic practice, which has already been established and which discriminates against returnees to BiH. For this reason, we can freely say that on behalf of the SDP Club in the BiH Parliament, we are expressing complete dissatisfaction with the results so far at the conduct of Annex VII. And not only does the SDP express this dissatisfaction or people in BiH but almost all European institutions. I recall, there was no talk about it today, but the European Parliament, at its meeting in Strasbourg last October, said among other things in one part that I quote, was "concerned by the lack of progress in the refugee return process". On that occasion, the European Parliament apostropheeded the special area of Posavina, that is, this part of RS. I think it's a key problem in the realization of Annex VII. is primarily those who obstruct the implementation of Annex VII, mostly, but part of the responsibility belongs to those who manipulate the implementation of Annex VII. It is not an unknown fact, here, I will take the region of northeastern Bosnia and Herzegovina: that some political parties have worked organisedly to get people from Bijeljina, Zvornik, Srebrenica, Vlasenica, Bratunca, etc., for example, register in Tuzla Canton and they have registered in Tuzla canton for the last general elections in 2006 in good numbers. But what consequences they've left in these municipalities, that's a matter of special analysis. Of course, as far as the SDP Club is concerned, if this revised strategy can help improve the situation in this area, and given that at this moment we have no better document than this, we will support this document. But I would take the opportunity to yet suggest one conclusion which, in my opinion, would specify this story, for the simple reason why the 82 question is: if the Constitution of BiH is not respected, if aneks vii. is not respected. The Dayton Peace Agreement, the question arises, so what does it oblige the authorities to respect one revised strategy? I therefore propose a conclusion in the following form: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the Council of Ministers to do so within 60 days at the latest', so that we limit the exact time limit 'from the adoption of the revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement shall provide the Representative House with an operational plan for the implementation of the strategy, with a specific reference to the holders of the work, the time limits for implementation and sources of funding." I'll deliver that conclusion in writing. And in the end, I must say that I will not comment on certain political parties and their steps, when it comes to this topic. However, at least for one political party in the House of Representatives it would be wise, it would be moral, if this topic were on the agenda to really try to keep quiet, given what is on behalf of that political party done to people and peoples in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25450	I have a replica: Branko Dokić. Is it a replica, Branko? Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25451	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25452	Denis Bećirović?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25453	I'll take the chance so, come on, it's officially a replica of my colleague Bećirović, but not just him.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25454	But even wider?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25455	But also wider. Exactly, yes. I would like to remind you that the proposed revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII is on the agenda. The Dayton Peace Agreement. And you know that Aneks vii.. The Dayton Peace Agreement deals with three equal approaches to resolving this issue. My colleague Denis, not just him, but many here have never mentioned any other aspect but coming back. I point out once again, many in the discussion have not mentioned any other aspect than the return. If you look at this strategy, except for the Council of Ministers' conclusions, it is clear what it prefers and what it puts the focus on. That's what I think her lack is about. And I would like this strategy to look at itself perfectly evenly in line with the possibilities, not some kind of, how can I say, the feelings of individuals, all three of these aspects. 83 And I would like to say that mentioning the number of some statistics, but when they're being treated up, that it can be very misunderstood and it can be sent a very wrong picture. There are also some statistics in this strategy that, if we want to correctly interpret them, will give a new picture of this problem and these issues in BiH. Here's to mention, I draw attention to page 11 which says the results of the review of the numbered status of displaced persons have now been corrected and it turns out that the most displaced persons are 55.2% of Serb nationalities, 38.3% of Bosniaks, etc. So when it comes to numbers, then it was time for these new figures to be mentioned and pointed out. I wouldn't go further, as I say, pour oil into the garden or touch living wounds. What I can fully agree with, and I want to point out, is one of the findings of a colleague of Lozančić, who was said by our famous artist: these are categories of people that we all run away from and what I would say, what I will support. I would support this proposal, which my colleague Bećirović had just dictated, if it had one note that it was an action plan to implement Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Accords, which includes all aspects that are found there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25456	I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the argument, so hopefully. Of course, I'll give the minister a chance. You don't need the three of you to answer, I see. So, with one finding that I hope after these discussions that we've all heard what we've been saying, we won't run away from these people anymore and that we'll take this first step that's ahead of us. Here you go, Mr. Minister, some sort of closing word, comments. I didn't hear, Šefik, we won't, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25457	I'll be very brief, without any controversy,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25458	Let me talk to you for a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25459	Let me explain a few things. Namely, when it comes to this environment, etc., it is necessary and it belongs to the MPs to conduct a political debate on return, remnant etc. We at the Ministry, if we wanted to do something, we avoided any politicisation and evaluation, etc., we used purely statistical data to create a certain instrumentation for realization. As for the qualifications mentioned here on paying commissions, this large number, I must encourage to say that no single dinar has been given for those purposes. Therefore, if anything is comforting, it is. common discussion As regards the proposals mentioned here for the programmes, action plans, etc. I can say the Ministry is already working. Here is the first version of the action plan, i.e. the return: 84 concepts in 2009-2014 with concrete supplies for each year, each municipality etc. So, the ministry is already working on it and just waiting to adopt the strategy, because it can't go before the strategy.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25461	A little patience, please, a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25462	And just a few more sentences. Since the fund was mentioned here, this particular one, etc. With regard to the request to form a 'Fund for fair compensation for damages', a major misunderstanding of the problem is evident. If this strategy is not adopted, it will only be prolonged to resolve the issues and the "Refund Fund" and other issues. In order for this fund to be formed, the law is required. In order for the law to be passed, it requires data that is not available. In particular, it is necessary to record the situation and to specify in Parliament which kind of damage is intended to be compensated. The damage is there in banks, so savings, etc. Whether these are just houses or properties, businesses, movable assets, etc., these are all issues that require special equipment and adoption at Parliament. You know a lot about coming back, and it's written, but it's necessary for the damage to be known more. And that is why it is proposed that this issue be investigated and then, on the basis of precise indicators, law and sublegal acts to address the compensation issue. These are the reasons why all the institutions that worked on the strategy thought that the best and only practical solution was to determine the review of the situation and then go to the regulation, and thus the establishment of this fund, or we don't even have to form the 'Fond for a Just Compensation', we have, for example. The Return Fund can even, if Parliament agrees, prescribe that this fund is also working on compensation for damages or a third solution, etc. But the point is that it's not standing, so to adopt this strategy and give it a chance to work on this plan. I think that the strategy and conclusions of the Council of Ministers, which are carefully drawn up on the basis of the strategy, contain what is most important here, and about the fund, and about the action plans, and that, believe me, everything is balanced, so that, through action plans, everything here that is required can be realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25463	Thank you, Minister. I believe the MPs fully understood these messages. This way I conclude debate on point 15. Proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement. We're staying at the deal to work until 6:00. We're going to point 16. 85 Ad. 16. Work and Business Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2007 Radio Television It's more or less familiar to all of you, but here are a few preliminary notes. On 30 December 2008, the Board of Directors of RTVBiH sent a report to Parliament on the work and business of RTVBiH in 2007 and on the report on the audit of BHRTV’s operations for 2007. The letter indicated that the Management Board did not adopt a report on the work that had been drawn up by management, submitted to the management of RTV, for the reason that the audit report confirmed hidden losses, unrealized financial situation, at least as indicated. We included this material in the agenda of the 46th session but because of the inconsistencies of the opinions we received from the competent committees, i.e. inaccuracy, inaccuracy, misunderstandings of opinions received from the competent committees at the Extended College were removed from the agenda. Afterwards, we called on the competent committees to re-take and review these reports with the presence of the relevant representatives of the Management Board and to deliver an opinion to the House. Therefore, to deliver an opinion to the House on the materials of their jurisdiction, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, noting that the Commission cannot refuse to examine the acts of its jurisdiction, but that materials, regardless of the quality, etc., should be taken up its position and should propose appropriate measures to the House. We sent a letter to the Management Board of the Public TV System in which we warned that the Management Board had submitted a report to the House on the work and business of BHRTV which had not adopted, and that it had not proposed any measures at the same time. We also warned of a legislative provision under which the Governing Board of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the public represents annual financial plans and plans for programmes and programmes, as well as reports on the implementation of these plans. So, after all these activities we've had, we've continued to process these materials, and in the meantime we've received a response from the Management Board to this memo, as well as an isolated response from a member of the Management Board. On the agenda of this session, we separated these two. So, the report on work and the Financial Business Report, so 16 and 17 are the point. On 17 March 2009, the Transport and Communications Commission submitted its conclusions after considering the report from this point. The conclusions have been proposed. I believe that you have them, but here is the record 'The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the Management Board of RTVBiH to submit to the House of Representatives a report on the work and operation of the RTVBiH for 2007 and 2008 and a report on the work of the Management Board for the same period'. So something's spreading. 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is asking the Management Board of RTVBiH to deliver to the House of Representatives by the end of April 2009 a plan for the rehabilitation and consolidation of the operation of RTVBiH (which we have talked about before). 86 I'd open the argument, but here's what I can see is that Martin Raguž reported himself, but a mistake, I'm sorry, for the replica. Branko Dokić, president of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25465	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25466	Okay, okay, sorry. Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25467	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I will speak on behalf of the Commission. You helped me because you read,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25468	I've made one retrospective and...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25469	You have read the conclusions of the Commission. I wouldn't repeat them now. The proposal, I think I'm saying, this committee that if we open a debate on these two documents, we'll do nothing of quality. We've already discussed this. I want to remind you that this house has adopted an audit report for the year 2007 that worked on the chosen house, which is competent and spoke about it. We've spent as much time as we've spent. We adopted that report and that would really be good, here is why, we will have a chance in a month, if these Commission proposals are accepted to fully discuss the 2008 report, and then we can also see this period for 2007, if it will give some quality conclusion for 2008 and what is next in 2008 for this period. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25470	Thank you, Mr. Dokić. I failed to welcome Mr. Nikola Deretić, chairman of the board of directors, who is here. Here, we heard, of course, it's open, and if you need anything to say, here, so I'm opening a debate. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. So now it's point 17. 87 Ad. 17. Financial Business Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Radio Television in 2007 Practically, what I was saying at point 16, is also true of point 17. In the same way, these conclusions. So, does anyone have a report for point 17, eventually? There isn't. I am also concluding debate on point 17. We're going to point 18. Ad. 18. 2008 Foreign Affairs Commission report: (a) Constitutional Commission, (b) Foreign Affairs Commission, (c) Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, (d) Commission on Finance and Budget, (e) Commission on Transport and Communications, (f) Commission on Gender Equality
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25474	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, about every year these reports pass without any comment. However, this time I am obliged to comment in front of the Commission because we have not fulfilled our obligations towards this home, and so far it has not been noticed. However, I am afraid that someone will notice, and therefore we are obliged to propose certain conclusions. In this report on competencies that have not been implemented, it is evident that, in accordance with the Security and Security Agency Act, the Commission should... consider certain materials but did not do so because they were not delivered to it by authorised proposings. These are the following materials: The Annual Report by the BiH Council of Ministers on the activities of the Agency for 2007; the second is the Informant Council of Ministers of BiH on the conclusion of the Security and Security Agency Agreement with the Agency of Foreign States and institutions of foreign and international organisations in 2007 and, most importantly, 'The Annual Information and Security Policy Platform 2009'. Come on, these two reports are so much Parliament and they won't get excited because some don't care, but here is the most important of all the 2009 Annual Platform that we haven't adopted yet and the Intelligence and Security Agency as a sensitive agency is still working without that platform for 2009. To keep that from happening again, we've been sending our own time-outs to deliver this on time. And last year, because of last year's delay and the non-admissions for last year, we delivered an emergency in time for it to be adopted in this assembly with December of last year for this year, but it didn't happen. On this basis, I propose one conclusion, as follows: 'On the basis of the Security and Security Agency Act of BiH', (mild conclusion, means for now, so we'll see what we'll do),... "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency to fulfil their legal obligations under that law regarding the delivery of reports, information and platforms." That's the proposal for a conclusion. It would be good to adopt this so we don't have to work this year without a very important act, which is 'The Agency's Information and Security Work Platform', based on which the Agency makes its work plan and strategy. And here it is, for half a year and it is due to begin to produce that platform for next year, because it is being prepared by the Council of Ministers, proposed by the Presidency, this is the Parliamentary Assembly, and the Parliamentary Assembly adopts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25475	This has been very helpful. Please submit a proposal for a conclusion. Have there been any further reports for the debate on item 19. A report on the work of joint committees? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on item 19. Let's go to point 20, so it's about 89 Ad. 20. Report on the work of the 2008 Appeal Office We received a report from the committee responsible, so the Commission on Finance and Budget, March 30th, and you saw that the Commission unanimously supported the report of the Office for the Review of Appeals with the proposed conclusions of the 1st and 3rd contained in the Report. Is there any need for me to read them, have you seen them in the report? So, further, there are two conclusions, the 1st and 3rd contained in the Report, and the Commission in the Report proposes to adopt another conclusion in the report to the House. I hope there's no need to read it. So, I'm opening a debate. Here, I have a report here from Sava Eric.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25477	Like this, just to remove the little dilemmas. Since we have had heated discussions on a large number of complaints on the Commission which otherwise affect BiH's economic development and the fact that I am an indicator of the 1.515 complaints that have been discussed, but here we have removed this, I hope, with the future law on public procurement that has caused this large number of complaints and that this commission has not been able to work more effectively. What is evident, here you see for the first time that we have in the fening complex where they spent, what they were doing, so that the Commission was really doing its part of the job and therefore our proposal was unanimously adopted all of these remarks that we had previously been removed. The fact that the Office, not to repeat here, has a vision that the next report is far better and I only hope that next time there will be one 200-300 complaints. That would be our wish.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25478	Thank you, Mr. Erić, and I want to. Mr. Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25479	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, appreciateing that we have a little time, I will be very brief. In fact, two years ago, we were also considering the report of this Office for the Review of Appeals. Perhaps the present and current director in a clumsy act towards this Parliament has created a false picture of the Office, or the Office's work or dissatisfaction. Therefore, I would like to stress that this Office of Appeal is very important in order to protect, or in a global fight against corruption. Because if it wasn't for this Board of Appeals, many of the mechanists who make decisions about assigning certain jobs would be doing illegal things, or those who participate in tenders would have no one to complain about. Since that is the case, and if you remember, two years ago, we were told that there were several thousand lagging complaints which have been resolved here, that this Office was unfulfilled, because there were only two members and there were no, or three, and there were no quorums etc., etc., and at one of the previous sessions we completed, or appointed two other members of the 90 of this Office to consider complaints, but some things were lagging behind. As far as I know, the Office is currently operating in such a way that it has a director and that there are no deputies and that the Director, according to the Internal Organization Regulation, no one is replacing. In fact, a few years from now, the director can't go on vacation, because if... it means... five days from now he doesn't respond to a particular complaint, the contracting authority may conclude a contract, regardless of whether the Board of Appeal has not called. In order to avoid such things, I think we should remove one injustice, both to the director and to the employees of this Office of Appeals, and accordingly I have suggested, here, and I suggest two conclusions, that we do not wrong these people. First: 'It is the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers to resolve all outstanding issues in the Office for the Review of Appeal concerning the non-compliance of the Office's Internal Organisation Regulations, and to ensure the use of all rights from the working legal status of staff in the Office. Because if everyone has the right to an annual vacation, then the employees of the Office, or the heads of the Office, should.' And, secondly, 'It is up to the Council of Ministers to bring all sublaws related to the work of the Office of Appeals in line with the acquis communautaire, i.e. European legislation." I think the correct conclusions are, and I'm asking you to back them up, not to make an injustice to these people who work there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25480	Thank you. As for the relationship with the Director of the Office, he was presented through this report. So, the Commission unanimously supported the reports and I don't see where you find any reluctance or prejudice towards the Director. He's welcome and, of course, we support the work of all the people behind him making the result. I'm no longer registered for this agenda item. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point 21. Ad.21. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Public Television System of BiH You saw from the report that consent was reached by the adoption of two amendments. I'm opening a debate on the report. Any objections to the report? There isn't. I am concluding the debate on point 21, or on the report of this committee. Moving to point 22. Unfortunately, here it is again happening that the initiator of this agenda point is not there. So it's about: 91 Ad.22. Information on the floods in Popo's field, Krupa River and Hut's mud area (resumer: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25483	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I will only take a brief look at the proposed conclusions. Namely, the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs is.................................................................................................... She received the information and suggested four conclusions. I'll briefly comment on each of them. The first conclusion is that it tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to establish a regulatory function in co-operation with entity ministries at BiH level, which will be responsible for resolving water management. I disagree with this conclusion, especially because they did not propose which form of regulatory function should be established. Is it a commission, is it a task force, and I will inform you that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has an organisational unit that deals only with this problem and which, at least in this area, has fantastic co-operation and coordination with entities. The second conclusion was that the management of the banks of the Trebišnica River and Neretva should be in line with the EU Water Framework Directives. And here I will inform you that the entity laws are well in line with EU legislation. In fact, 90% of the water-related directives have already been incorporated into entity laws. The third conclusion was that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations should encourage the implementation of the Global Environment Fund Grant Agreement between BiH and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as the Agency for the realisation of the Global Fund for the Environment, the Neretva and Trebišica Management Project. I will also inform you that the implementation of this project is ongoing. As part of the Ministry, there is a team that manages this project and the funds that are intended for the implementation of the projects are already operational. So, absolutely unnecessary conclusion. 92 I under d) that the establishment of a regulatory authority in the management of the BiH-level water system is not regulated by the construction of the 'Horizonal Water Law'. Gentlemen, I'll brief you on the fact that this is headed by the Ministry, and I insisted that this Ministry's work plan for this year be much more ambitious than last year's. So last year, the Ministry only planned four laws, this year I insisted that it be 19, even 19 laws. We did not predict (you can see this through the Ministry of the Council of Ministers' programme) making 'The Water Law', although I was thinking of starting with one such story, but in contact with entities, simply, there was no willingness to pass such a law at the state level, I couldn't feel it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25484	Novaković, I suggest Martin Raguž speaks before. Martina, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25485	Thank you very much. It's nice to see this collegiation. I would like to thank my colleague Novaković and your chairman. Dear fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, fellow Members, I always find it a better part of my colleagues, and I thank you for this information and for the explanations, but since I was the proposing of this agenda item and how, I will not be angry, I have offered a series of documents to one 30 pages, and you have only responded to the card and by answer to the parliamentary question, I will be free to comment on this matter. So, with this thanks and your response from your ministry, and your oral presentation here today shows how much we are still as a country and as a level of BiH inert to address important life issues. So, in your information, there was no proposal for a conclusion. Here, you've come to realize the floods have been! I won't even go into the reasons why they were, we can also be problematic about it, but the Ministry didn't properly assess any proposal for conclusions on how to prevent things from happening in the future. And look, this is happening over a 13-year period, it's never happened, and in the last four years, the second time, this time the most drastic in history. So if it's not an alarm to figure out what to do, here's that I'm not the one who needs to figure it out, I expect you to, and I'll give you support in that sense. I consider this an opening of a story, only one serious one, that you have an initiative and that you offer solutions. Here, I'd expect it. This does not mean that you take the authority of entities, Mr. Minister, but it is a fact that BiH does not now have any regulatory function that can establish the right state of affairs, to prevent things next year, without speaking, don't let Bog, that someone goes to visit people who have invested everyone who has been questioned all these years and that he tells them that they will recover the damage. And that's why I've been suggesting that things change positively, not to call each other out, but to create new relationships here. Now, you see, your information says that hydropower plants in Trebišnica over the past period have been constantly commulating water in the accumulation of Bileca and thus significantly relieving floods downstream of the Gorica dam, and water management has been done in maximum transparency and public. 93 The day before the flood broke out, the Adriatic Sea Water Area Agency, down in Mostar, had no information on the water regime that the hydropower plant operates, and is talking about transparency. So whoever has to have that information first. I'm here to publicly say it, so they didn't have it. So no one knew what regime the water was working on. Secondly, did hydropower plants have to be on that water regime at the time of the water flow, when it was known what capacity was and what were the possibilities of digesting that amount of water? And I'm just saying, so there's no evenly used information here from one entity or another, so I'm going to tell you here that you have data from the Federal Ministry here on water flow: 350 m per second, and the day before that, the wave was 1 m per second. So it's not 5 meters per second now, it's 350 meters per second?- I'm sorry. The Capljina Hydropower Plant can accept 200 meters per second, and let the water be those sources that I don't deny in Pop's field, and you yourself say in the information that they are not, that it's impossible to quantify, but they were 100 m per second, so we see where the underlying cause is. If the flow had been 100 meters per second, it was significantly more than a maximum, they could have avoided the floods, but it was 350 meters, gentlemen. Why was it 350? And why wasn't there any information that would be dropped so much water? That's what I'm talking about. And I'm not calling anyone, I just want these things to not be repeated and that those responsible in that chain from hydroelectric power plants to end-users are all being informed in good time and all together. No Niko can react on their own. So it's everybody's responsibility. And that mechanism and that chain of responsibility absolutely doesn't exist, you don't have it as a minister, and this doesn't apply to you at all, you've reacted with both information and arrival, I respect it very much, but we need to be aware that this chain is not such that it can respond to the needs. And secondly, apart from electricity, when this project was being worked, agricultural producers, ecosystems and the restoration of life in that space were placed in a balanced dimension. And now production and profit from electricity can't be in the primate compared to these people. Well, you don't have to make a lot of money in that period. They destroyed thousands of acres of the highest quality fruit trees that were planted and restored bloody there. And I'm not anybody here, and don't always argue with me like last time that I want to call someone. I want to, and here I propose (for me this information is insufficient) a proposal for conclusions also in response to the real question. I suggest that we not accept this information yet, to return it to the competent commission, to determine a few MPs, here's who will, and we'll go to Bileca, and Trebinje, and Ravna, and Chapljina, and all of them, to make one parliamentary monitoring of these issues. So here's to contributing to some solution proposal. There is no predetermined solution or any decision that we do not make to hurt anyone, or to kick out, or to give an unfair assessment. But gentlemen, it's impossible for today to run 1 m per second and tomorrow 350; it's said to be done transparently, and no one knows it'll be tomorrow. There's no question of transparency in that period. Secondly, there is good practice and tradition, and in that country good things were done, it was known when the rainfalls are expected, the lake is emptyed on a quota that can accept so much water, not keep at the maximum and then when it comes 100% as much as the lake, so of course Trebinje and this will also get killed down there. It's serious stuff. And I'm sorry to hear from you that there is no will of entity to pass a water law at BiH level. So the question is: Should we expect someone's will or have the right to a legislative initiative to regulate this issue and to give regulatory mechanisms – this does not mean out of jurisdiction, they can be in entities – that this is not only happening downstairs but anywhere. It's just, these are serious things, I didn't want 94 here or daily politics or calling anyone out, but here it just shows that we're limited, that we have gaps in the system and that we have to do something, that we're setting up some mechanisms to help you do it responsibly in coordination. I suggest that the Commission organise a public debate, let the government call the entity ministers, here we are representatives to do something, to think of something, to move it, not to repeat this. I'm sorry, in four years, this is the second time that's happened and this time it's happened with a lot more serious consequences. Minister, I must tell you, not to you, but only to have information. I know that you have recently come and what is one minimum is and one kind of creation, initiatives by the Ministry and not only play ping-pong: it is an entity jurisdiction, and the water disappears on the entity border, on the contrary, here it works, and there needs one chain and monitoring and prevention and regulation that is not now available. And I've tried to put some of these conclusions in a mild form, but now I hear and we've got there from the Ministry's representative a promise that this year will be brought 'The Water Law'. Now you're saying you don't expect that. I suggest that the water law remains that conclusion, so let this home be made known whether or not it will be brought, not just to hear from lower levels, because it clearly shows here that they need these functions. I think we've opened up a good debate, the Ministry has been involved, I suggest we involve the Council of Ministers and let this be given to the competent commission to once again all relevant structures come, if necessary, and to go around the field and then finally set ourselves up. Here, thank you very much. Thanks more, I may have made it too long, but really, here, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25486	It's all within the limits of the Rules of Procedure. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25487	I must say, my colleague and I have read different materials. In fact, he only read one material, obviously, because I don't see what my colleague is talking about, not that I don't see the same way, but I don't see in these materials that I got in this way. So, I've been reading the Federal Ministry's information here, and I haven't found this data. It's obvious that we have, (by the way, part of it is, but part of it and I'm not who you said here), we have obviously different data. Here, for example, just an example, the finding that in the accumulation of Bileca was the maximum amount of water, here I am now reading material that you do not have, did not come here to you, which is the material from HET which says like this: 'In 30 days from 21.11.2008 until 20.12.2008 the maximum monthly flow in the accumulation of Bileca was recorded from the moment of construction of the Grenčar dam. The good environment and the fact is that the accumulation of Bileca was almost empty on 21.11.2008. 'years.' My Kolega Raguž says she was full then, so then she couldn't take what came, and people said she was empty, so she could. So what I'm saying is that it's obvious that today we're really talking about the same thing with completely different information and all sorts of different positions. I'm sorry that I found myself in this story with Mr. Raguž, who I have nothing to do with Hercegovina, means who I pass through Herzegovina when I go to sea, or when I go to sea, and I don't know if I'm going down in the future, which of course doesn't mean that I Ragužn't want to go together 95 to see what he was talking about, or what I'm talking about. But, please, I was talking about some sources downstairs last time. In fact, people gave me such data, so some gave me photos, and now I see that the Federal Ministry was also giving photos, so I didn't just have photos, but they were giving some photos here, too, and they were saying that the problem was a source, meaning the sources of separate, individual sources in Pop's field. Then here I denied that it was incorrect, and then here I am reading information about the floods delivered by the Water Area Agency, meaning from Mostar, where the blueing of the field was said to have caused the activation of many maritime connections, resulting in the activation of numerous sources in the area of Hut's mud and the settlements of Switava and the municipality of Chapljini. Now, I wasn't downstairs, so last time my colleague respected me for not being down there, so normally I don't know, but I wasn't downstairs, I just read what he said here. Not to mention further that in the second report of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Management of RS, it is said: 'In the Gorica dam zone to the lower Pop field there are a large number of sources belonging to the area mentioned, such as the sources of Rasovac, Bugovina, Zbora,' now that I am not speaking here, 'and many others that have significantly affected the flood back then.' Here I am, because we really have information that is different, I would not go further on this information, I would not talk about the cubes of water, about this, about what, I'm afraid I'm not getting involved in this because I didn't talk to people directly down there, but only about the data I got, but it's very interesting that, based on all this data, the Commission is proposing these conclusions. Here I was thinking: How do we solve this issue with the conclusions mentioned here, to establish regulatory competences in the management of the BiH-level water system? I thought that these floods could solve me with good information between those who are interested down there, and let's just say that regulatory powers are at entity levels, or canton levels, I don't know what it's like in the Federation. And I can't see, I can't see, I really don't see how these conclusions are drawn from this. So now I'm getting the wrong impression, and I'm saying it's wrong that we rolled this thing up to get to the regulatory agencies at BiH level on this issue. Here, I know it's not Mr. Raguž's motive, but if I wanted to look at it the way I do sometimes, then I'd say we put this thing in motion just for that. So, let me finish this story too. I also think that we today and we can only end up in a way that we accept this on the knowledge, and we accept in our knowledge the different information from different sources or other variants that Mr Raguž has suggested: to now try all this information on the spot to check whether it is such information, so that we may eventually come up with some conclusions, but I am not asking you to conclude that in any way, means in any way enter into something... why there is no here, but it is known in advance, there is no agreement in Parliament. So, I'm not because we're using these people down here to make a regulatory decision on regulatory functions at BiH level. I am, so I prefer that we help these people if we can help down there find ways to help people and make up for that damage, so if we have to, yes, I am, so and to determine the causes, they're really causing the consequences, which is why these consequences happened, but I'm sure it wasn't really the motive of my colleague Raguž. Thank you. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25488	But there, it wouldn't be too bad to jump into Herzegova's bit. Replica, Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25489	Here, Mr. President, I won't answer the line again. No matter what, I think Mr. Novaković finally showed willingness or went down to get it all out, so that's enough reason not to get into some big controversy. But you see this, if there was this... information that colleague Novaković is talking about right now, that wouldn't have happened. And secondly, it wouldn't particularly happen in four years even more drastically. That's what I'm talking about. And you can't deny it to me... release the data now. And secondly, it's not done transparently and publicly, because the day before the competent agency you mentioned has no information under which water regime, here I am wrong in my findings, but the Agency needs to know which one it is... Secondly, what you said was about the 11th month. This is about 29. One when they were floods and... that's three months. You know what to do in three months with water. I mean, I just have to do this a little bit because of the facts. And secondly, sources? I haven't denied the share of resources in the floods, but even in this report, the Ministry says it's impossible to quantify it. Estimates are 100 meters per second. Here I am, here's the thing, it's huge... 100 meters per second. But no, they estimate 325 from the hydropower plant. Oh, please look, but let's not get into the data. It would be sad if it ended with nothing, because of the end, for all people and for the fact that we showed one positive relationship. Here's to not finding the responsibility and not breaking the indicator. Let's go 15 days, here I am ready to accept all the suggestions whoever wants us to go, representatives of the Ministry, Parliament, and that whoever people do something. Some of it has to be regulated. I said: no jurisdiction, no relocation of jurisdiction, but this ministry and the Council of Ministers must have some regulatory functions to prevent, inform, monitor, etc., and these are the EU directives. They weren't mentioned by accident. We'll have to apply that tomorrow. This concerns other countries, Montenegro, Croatia, somewhere else, Serbia, etc. These are serious questions. And here, I beg you, I thank everyone who contributed and I will never answer again. I don't insist on anything, I was extreme, I tried, here, I don't know what else to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25490	Would it be... if possible, Martina, some sort of conclusion written to suggest before the plea on the trail of what you were talking about, if possible, of course. I'm moving Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25491	Well, I'll try to be very brief. The biggest accident would be if there were a third time in the flood and we weren't here to discuss why it is, what it is, and we don't have any actual results of this kind of debate. 97 I must stress that the water, the fire, knows neither the state borders, let alone the entity borders, and in that sense I think there must be some coordination. I'm not talking about transferring jurisdiction at all. There must be some coordination, and if we now know that we have modern monitoring, satellite tracking, let's say, weather forecasts, then I think that can be achieved by the effect that the actual dynamics of the lake's emptying come something before that rainy period comes. I will only give you one example: in 2001, the Tuzla Lake Blueac, or Lake Modrac in Kiseljak; it was a dry year and we did not expect the water to arrive so quickly. Those of the Prescret who bossed that part didn't address anyone for the weather and what happened. It happened that within seven days, the flow of water was such that despite all the open gaps on Lake Blueac was one and a half feet above the dam, causing floods in the lower part below Lake Blue. Thus, the responsibility was for those who did not actually use all the techniques and science to monitor and possibly increase the water flow from Lake Blueac and that Lake Blueac could receive the effects of the rainy period, and that the flood would be less. So here I think that Raguz's proposal and Mom's proposal that accepts here and I agree that it would be good for one delegation to monitor, come on, Parliament's Assembly in talks with people who work on the water flows of this Adriatic Sea, Trebišnica hydropower plant and others... sit down and negotiate. If nothing else, about the manner and obligation of respect for monitoring and respect for co-operation between, I would say, these institutions are very important. Not because of what happened to us, but to prevent a fourth or fifth flood from happening to us, because I think it deserves attention. And I think that must include the Council of Ministers and our minister, not to pass a new law transposing powers, but in order to maybe pass regulations that would be binding on the co-operation of these institutions that would be responsible for the flood, and they did not take measures that are preventive. I think that's a good suggestion and that, Martina, in that sense, here's your support.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25492	Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25493	Here I'm really going to try to say in a few sentences a few of my thinkings, and keeping in mind this fact that we have ambition today to finish this and do the same vote on agenda points by 6:00. At the time of the intervention, i.e. to the construction of the Grencharevo dam, in the 1970s – the 1980s, trebišnjica was part of the Neretva River basin. With this intervention, is it, which of course has more purpose, i.e. for the production of electricity, for the regulation of floods, use of water for agriculture, etc., situation, i.e. water regime, the natural water regime has changed and, of course, water needs to be used and all that water means as a resource. However, this also involves responsible water management. What happened a month or two ago, it seems to me that one, in fact, is certainly a set of circumstances and were certainly at that time extremely heavy rainfall, which was recorded with reports from rainwater cells that I also studied, and whether it was quite good and quality water management, or water levels in accumulation, I'm not quite sure. 98 However, whoever is in charge of managing the water level in the accumulation has a plan. If they were working according to that plan, they weren't responsible. If they're not, they're responsible too. Now, I don't think we have, at least I don't think we have the ambition to go into some kind of, to conduct investigations to see who's possibly guilty, or who wasn't working according to what they were supposed to do, so these are the adopted plans that regulate it. How much water was in the sources etc., it is difficult to quantify, it is difficult to determine. However, what is most important and what needs to be a lesson from this moment on what happened a few months ago in these floods is that there is not enough and quality communication, coordination or cooperation, let's call it what we want, water industry or water companies, or what they already call agencies, administrations, etc., which are lords of water in one stream, one natural area. And it's much more important, it's actually important that there's communication and good co-operation between, anyone who manages water, one of the plums, but that it's in the same political and territorial unit with the other part that wasn't that stream, etc. So that's the key problem. Here, it is now evident that it is not there. How and how do you handle this? The conclusions of our commission, don't let my colleagues resent me, I think we should go the other way. They brought themselves here into a rather awkward position and I think they should have done otherwise, which is that from the Council of Ministers who, however, and through the Resort Ministry and others who make up the Council of Ministers, has greater potential, more professional people, in the end, and the responsibility to co-operate with the entity authorities to agree on these measures, what is it necessary to do that no longer happens? And that's why I think these conclusions from our resolute committee and they don't have any great chance of being adopted and, to adopt them, it's a question of their enforceability. So it takes a little bit more finer in expressing these conclusions. And I will repeat, so I don't think that we should adopt these conclusions today, that we should adopt another conclusion, other conclusions, which is that we ask the Council of Ministers to take concrete measures to resolve what happened two or three months ago, so that it doesn't happen again. So how to establish good and quality cooperation between those who master water in this area and otherwise to prevent any future situations like this, or to respond to any such unforeseen situations. And I think there's a solution in that direction. What's that? Is it the adoption of the law, whether it is a regulation of one obligation to cooperate better and better quality, to exchange information which is minimum, etc.? I won't talk about it, let it be proposed by the RES, or the Council of Ministers, and then Parliament will be informed about it and take care of it. Did we do the right thing when we talked about this? Absolutely we are. So Parliament is the place where any incident situation or natural disaster, etc. We need to discuss it. To identify possible causes, find out if those who are guilty should, and especially to prevent such unwanted situations from being aided, which, of course, have adverse consequences for people and for all that they are doing here, etc., not to mention it now. So, here, I won't delay or waste your time anymore. So, I propose that the following conclusion be adopted: 'That the Council of Ministers again and on the basis of today's debate... comes up with concrete suggestions on what and how to do and then verify it here in Parliament and then go into the realization of such conclusions, and here we are with the goal of not repeating this again, neither this nor anywhere else, anyway.' So this can also be said to be valid universally, not only for this case of Trebišnica, or Neretva, or this part of Herzegovina, can happen in some other parts of BiH. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25494	Thank you. Next for discussion is Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25495	Dear Chairman, I will start with the presentation of my colleagues, Jukić, and I agree with almost everything he has said, but I will start with that. We did not bring ourselves into the awkward situation of the Commission what we wanted. We were brought into an awkward situation by the Rules of Procedure, the responsibility of the College, and I was just wondering how this belonged to our commission. The Foreign Trade and Customs Committee is discussing the floods, we, but here we are given a task by someone and, behold, someone has to solve it. Now what happened? So we weren't even a commission investigating, we weren't perceptive, we weren't talking to any of those people about what happened down there, or we had that jurisdiction. We had more information on the Commission, which is: Information from the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Economy RS is diametrically opposite from the same Federation body. And I was right on the Commission saying that we don't put our ministry in the position of arbiter to judge and put himself on one side or that side. For a wonderful miracle – I will, believe me, not speak much – I was glad, I am not defending Mr. Minister, I have heard praise from other colleagues on the Commission, no matter what is short on function, that he has set out ambitiously to do all this, not just around the flood, not to Bog more that floods are happening, which will be the Minister of Floods, and what has happened to us. I agree with colleague Novaković about these conclusions, these were the conclusions of Mr Raguž who were very correct, and his performance because he had the most documentation, we had nothing of it. They had the position of the ministries, I said, one and the other entity, the position of our ministry, what else could we have, but we had information from the representatives of this ministry. That's why this conclusion that counterpart Novaković is talking about, and I was against him, but we had on the Commission a direct oral report that by half this year, he was preparing 'The Law on the Waters of BiH'. Here's a colleague who's been on the Commission, they know that's what happened. _________(?) That's what we're told. That's what we're told. And what else are we going to do, but how is there gonna be a law if there's no one in charge of that and enforce that law? Some agency, whether it's called a regulatory, like this, and that's why these conclusions were carried out. But here, in short, I really thank all my colleagues and almost everyone is on the back of the same story, starting with Mr. Raguž, who is very correct, Mr. Novaković, Bešlagić and Jukić, that we really do not accept this in this way today, but that the second conclusion is formulating, it does not matter whose it is going to be. To really be in charge of the Council of Ministers and not only to be in charge of that ministry. Let them work, form a commission, talk to people, so if we need help from Parliament, here we go down. But to talk to people, not on the paper we got, and now I'm in a dilemma that I'm going to trust. Of course, cheerleaders will always behave, I will believe the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management of the Republic of Slovenia's report. When I saw a lot of paperwork with Mr. Raguž, it's not really people, I'll tell you the truth, it's nothing asked for at all, but I do say 100 people have to tell these people there's no more floods in this way. I immediately supported it, not Bog's flood anywhere. What happened next? Let me finish. It happened that we came to these conclusions that I probably wouldn't support today, but I prefer the suggestions. All of us, now that we've spoken, said that this best conclusion is to postpone this, with another conclusion that we're going: to form if we need a commission or a council of ministers, not just to fall on the burden of the new minister who came there. Let them see, have the capacities of both these and those, so let them determine, talk to people, and if they need to be present members of this committee, no problem at all. But give us an assignment of what to do, and not based on it: We have been given the task of seeing three acts and of giving ourselves to them, and we know nothing of what was down there. I don't know, I was just reading from the press that there were huge floods, and based on what I really am now, but I haven't seen a man say, hey, hello, messenger, you represent me up there, you're still against me! I've been destroyed ten acres of land. What am I going to live on?- I'm sorry. So we need that information. And who's going to help these people stop that from happening? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25497	Let me remind you that we agreed to work until 6:00. If you want us to realize that, let's be rational, because we have a vote, otherwise we'll be gathered tomorrow to vote. Anyone who has a proposal; Slavko, write a proposal to postpone, prepare. Ekrem Ajanović, replica. I, here, everyone wants theirs, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25498	I'll be brief. First, it's a replica to Mr. Jukić and all those others. I think that this committee has nothing to apologize for, these are very correct and rational conclusions that can bring water management to the best possible extent at this moment, and in line with European directives. And I think that all that was said, especially what Jukić was saying, he actually said all this, but to say it to someone else and to say it in some nicer form. And because, as far as I'm concerned, I suggest that these conclusions be adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25499	Thank you. Is Martin Raguž a replica? Yes, it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25500	Just for a little while, so, to all those who have challenged any possibility of... regulatory mechanisms, we're not talking about jurisdiction, we're talking about the mechanism, it's very important to distinguish it. I will read point 5 of the expert commission made up of representatives of both entities, the monitoring of USAID and all relevant organisations. He says: 'It is certainly that the different interests of the system users can be harmonised only by its integrated management in 101 wider areas, both by quality and by water quantity, and in this sense it is necessary to establish quality monitoring and water quantity.' There's no such thing now, gentlemen. And the Commission went that way. But since there are still open questions about the data, and about the recommendations, I have proposed a written additional deadline. The Commission to include representatives of the ministry, Parliament, is being visited, one final report is being submitted and that we try to really be rational, to do something. I think it's a constructive proposal and I'd like to ask, as a proponent and initiator, in that sense here's an understanding of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25501	We still have Joza Križanović reported. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25502	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'll be very brief indeed. Last time we discussed this initiative around this field, I said we couldn't get into a situation like the House of Representatives to be the judge of some kind of problem. But obviously we have a problem. We have a problem only when we have actually received information from the relevant RS and Federation ministries, only then have we seen that there is a problem. There's a problem in communication, in coordination, in cooperation. I don't see other bodies in BiH besides this parliament giving instructions to the executive government to do something to overcome the problem. Who's the problem with setting up a regulatory mechanism?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25503	Well, I guess you heard, Jozo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25504	I want to ask the public now. Here, you saw earlier, for example, from the Ministry of Civil Affairs of Mr. Nović when he said that they already have certain, as I would say, departments that regulate already scientific research work in relation to some of the developments in that, etc. They've got civilian business, they've got, they've got the Ministry of Foreign Trade. So what's the problem now? I can accept that the conclusions b), c) and d), perhaps, I should say because of the vanity of the minister or of this ministry, are not given such instructions when it will need to contain something in future documents. But I wouldn't accept any more, let me say, an alternative and any delay, and I will insist on the implementation of this first conclusion. Because this whole thing we've been doing so far, it doesn't make sense. It makes sense to go to Pop's field, etc., let the delegation meet, see and bring the problem closer. And what's behind that? Will a group of MPs coordinate, which will be, better co-ordinate these things? And for that reason, here's to be clear, I'm going to insist and I suggest that we actually approach one conclusion at a time, and I don't think this conclusion can bother anyone, it's that problem, that's what solves this problem that we're hearing. Thank you. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25505	I don't have any more reports. Finalising debate on item 25. Information about the floods in Pop's field. Let's go to the point, excuse me, that was point 22. We're going to point 23. Ad.23. Change in Commission membership So we only have one simple SNSD proposal. So instead of Mrs. Snježana Rajilić at the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, she is named Mr. Željko Kuzmanović. The Commission for Transport and Communications is choosing Kuzmanović Željko instead of Snježana Rajilić. I don't have any other suggestions. Any objections, arguments? There isn't. Finalising debate on item 23. We're going to the final point, 24. Ad.24. Granting consent to ratify these all agreements that we have, from a) to g)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25509	I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25510	Mr. Živković's giving up... has a conclusion. We'll get to the bottom of this. Mr. Kalabić, are you giving up? Okay. Please, we are pleading on Mr. Kalabić's amendments, so one amendment. Prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 11 votes "yes", 18 "against". Mr Kalabić's amendment did not get the general majority and was not adopted. Prepare to vote on the draft law in the second reading. Vote. Now! 35 "for" (24 Federation, 11 RS). I find that the law has won both the general and the entity majority and is thus adopted. We have a proposal for Mr. Živković's conclusion. Should I read it? Do you have it in front of you? Thank you very much. Please prepare to vote on Mr. Živković's Opinion proposal. Vote. Now! 34 "for" (22 Federation and 12 RS). I also find that this conclusion regarding the amendment and supplementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures by Mr Živković has been adopted. Let's go to point 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers (Second Reading). We don't have any amendments here. We're pleading on this law. Prepare to vote Vote. Now! 36 votes "yes" (24 Federation, 12 RS). I find that the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers has been adopted in the second reading. We're going to point six. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. We're voting on the opinion of the Joint Commission. If opinions are adopted, this law has fallen. If no opinion is adopted, a new report shall be submitted to the Joint Commission. So we're voting on a report that's negative. 105 Please prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 25 votes "against", 11 votes "for". Wait a minute, it's getting off my screen. "For" 11 votes, 25 "against", no opinion was adopted. There's no general majority. So he's coming back to this committee. Do we have any guidelines to give to this committee? Let him keep an eye on it, let him think it over. Okay. Let's move on. Point 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina (this is about first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 35 votes "yes" (23 Federation, 12 RS). I agree that the draft law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. Let's go point 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (also referred to as first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 34 votes "yes" (22 Federation, 12 RS). I agree that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection was adopted in the first reading. We're going to point 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Border Police Act (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 35 "for" (23 Federation, 12 RS). I agree that in our first reading, we adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Border Police. Ten. Proposal for a law on border control (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now on your conscience. Of course, visa regime, no travel. 26 votes "yes" (24 Federation, two RS). We don't have an entity majority, we don't have consent. We're going to vote in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote. Now! The law voted 10 from the RS and the law did not go through. Or rather, he fell and we ended the story of this law. 106 Let's go to point 11. Proposal for a Financial Lising Act (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote. Now! Of course, with the Commission's opinion and the conclusions contained in the Opinion. 25 votes "yes" (23 Federation, two RS). We don't have an entity majority, we don't have consent. We vote in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote. Now! And this went on licking. 10 votes "against" from the RS. The law wasn't passed. We're moving on 12. Proposal for a framework law on the basis of the scientific activities and coordination of the internal and international research co-operation of BiH (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 33 votes "yes" (24 Federation, nine RS). I find that the proposal for a framework law on the basis of scientific research activity was adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25511	(no microphone turned on)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25512	I don't see this proposal as a conclusion in that direction officially.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25513	I think SDP and Lagumdžija asked for a public debate... a joint discussion. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25514	Mr. Lagumdžija missed it. Please, this commission, of course we won't; that's all you have to tell Lagumdžija. No problem. Šefik, look at that over there. All right. Let's move on. Let's go to point 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH, Proposer: The House of Peoples, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. We're voting on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission is negative. Please, we're voting on the opinion of this committee. Prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 21 "for", 19 RS, alignment. We don't have the consent. 107 Let's go to the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote. Now! No, just a little bit. So I find that the opinion of this committee has not been accepted and is returning to this commission. Let's go to point 14. Declaration by the House on the Commission's application for traffic and communications for the prolonging of deadlines for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on the Postales of BiH. Please prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 35 votes "yes" (23 Federation, 12 RS). The Commission's application for traffic and communications for the prolonging of the submission of the Post Law Proposal Report has been accepted. We're going to point 15 to vote, but the circumstances are of such a nature that we really need to hear this if we want to keep this document alive, unfortunately. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25515	Well, here we are, in that intention and desire, proposing to postpone the statement on the proposal for a revised strategy and, in the meantime, to return this large number of conclusions to the competent committee for reconciliation and to get it and then to.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25516	To go through those conclusions together with the promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25517	And then... yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25518	Please, do you agree with this proposal? Would you like to make a statement? We need to make a statement. Please, something's happening to my screen. Prepare to vote. Vote. Now! We vote on Drago Kalabić's proposal to postpone the statement on the proposal for a revised strategy. 30 votes "yes" (21 Federation, nine RS). The proposal was both received by the general and entity majority and adopted. The conclusions will, therefore, return to the Commission for compliance with the proposal of this strategy. Wait a minute. 108 Let's go to point 16. A report on the work and business of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Radio Television for 2007. The votes shall be cast on the Commission's report. Please prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 33 votes "yes" (21 Federation, 12 RS). I find that the Commission's report on the 2007 report on the work and business report for RTVBiH has been adopted. Let's go to point 17. A report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's financial business in 2007. The same thing, therefore, is being declared on the Commission's Financial and Budget Report. Please prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 32 "for" (20 Federation, 12 RS). I also find that the Commission's Finance and Budget Report on the financial operations of RTVBiH was adopted in 2007. We're going to point 18. Reports on the work of the 2008 House Representative Commission. Here we have one, two, three, four, five, six reports. Should I count them in the record so we can plead in the package? So: (a) Constitutional Commissions, (b) Commission on Foreign Affairs, (c) Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, (d) Commission on Finance and Budget, (e) Commission on Transport and Communications, (f) Commission on Gender Equality. We're voting on these reports. Prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 36 "for" (24 Federation, 12 RS). I find that these work reports have been adopted by the committee. We're going to point 19. Reports on the work of joint commissions for 2008. Shall we do it the same way? So: (a) Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of BiH, (b) Joint Security Intelligence Commission for the Control of Labour of the BiH Security Agency, (c) Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development, (d) Joint Commission for European Integration, (e) Joint Commission for Administrative Affairs, (f) Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics. 109 please... and we have a conclusion, a suggestion. Let's talk about the reports first. If you keep this up, I'll send the reports to the UN, not the Federation. Please prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 34 "for" (23 Federation, 11 RS). I find that these work reports have been adopted. In this regard, we have a proposal for Mr Mirko Okolić's conclusion. I hope you have it in front of you. Please prepare to make a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of Mirko Okolić. Vote. Now! 33 "for" (21 Federation, 12 RS). I find that Mr Mirko Okolić's proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. Let's go to point 20. Report on the work of the 2008 Appeal Office. We vote first on the Office's work report. Please prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 31 "for" (20 Federation, 11 RS). I agree that a report on the work of the 2008 Board of Appeal has been adopted. We have conclusions on the Commission's proposal. So three conclusions. Do you have them in front of you? Please prepare to make a statement on the three conclusions proposed in the Commission report. Okay. Okay. Here, I'll give it to Šemsine. Please prepare yourselves. So, do you have the proposal for a conclusion of Šemsudin Mehmedović in front of you? Yes, you do. Prepare to make a statement on Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović's proposal for a conclusion. Vote. Now! 32 "for" (23 Federation, nine RS). I also conclude that the two conclusions proposed by Šemsudin Mehmedović were also adopted. We're going to point 21. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Public Television System of BiH. We're voting on the report of our Joint Commission. Prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 32 votes "yes" (23 Federation, nine RS). I find that the Joint Commission report has been accepted. Let's go to point 22. Information on floods in Popo's field, Krupa River and Hut's mud area (subsistent: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations). So here we have the first proposal to get the information to the knowledge. Okay, when you say so, okay. Just one moment. So, we're going to make a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of Martin Raguž. I don't need to read it to you, it's delayed. So, get ready. Here, you see, Šefik, I know what I'm talking about. Here you go, Mr. Križanović, business intervention, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25519	Business intervention. I think it's our turn to be aware of the conclusions given by the committee in charge. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense... what this committee is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25520	Mr. Križanović, but the proposal for the conclusion of Martin Raguž is such a nature, which is the initiator of this whole material, which excludes the need at this time to declare ourselves. There may be other conclusions and better ones, and then we will plead. So we're postponing practically. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25521	... It's not about who's more of a proposer here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25522	You insist, don't you? Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25523	The procedure has entered, the procedure has been carried out.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25524	Well, wait, so listen to the man, sick. Listen to the man! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25525	Is there a problem with what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25526	Well, it's not. Guys, we're this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25527	Is this in line with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25528	Here, the three of us say it is. We're voting on Mr. Raguž's proposal for a conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote. Now! It's nothing, it's not. Well, Jozo, he's proposing that the man postpone everything, you'll do it all over again. We'll have another discussion. 111
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25529	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-04-01-0.u25530	Well, it is, but this conclusion... delays the statement of everything else. I hope we understand each other. Jozo, you'll be able to do everything again when this material gets back to this session, everything will be back here. So, I'm getting away, just a little bit. 32 votes "yes" (20 Federation, 12 RS). I find that Martin Raguž's proposal also received the general and entity majority regarding the material, i.e., flood information in Pop's field, etc. And one of them was "abstained", here's to say, from the Federation. Point 23. Changes in the membership of the committee. So Željko Kuzmanović at the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs and the Commission with Traffic and Communications. So we can go in the package. Please, we don't do this. That's what the commission does. Prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 32 votes "yes" (21 Federation, 11 RS). I konstatirati this election proposal in these two commissions has both been given to the general and entity majority. And we have the last point of 24. Please, just a minute. So, shall we plead in the package? Do I have to read it? I don't have to. Okay. So we're pleading point 24. The agreement on scientific cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro (b) of the Agreement on the financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the cross-border programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro for 2007 on the basis of an instrument for pre-accession assistance, component II – Cross-border co-operation, c) The arrangement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Korea concerning the loan from the Fund for the improvement of economic co-operation, d) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on International Road Transport of Travellers and Goods, e) the Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, the Republic of Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia and the Mission for the Interim Administration of the UN in Kosovo, the Digital Security of Kosovo, the Security of Kosovo Agreement with the European Union, the European Union and the European Union's's's's Capital for the European Union. Please prepare to vote. Vote. Now! 36 votes "yes" (24 Federation, 12 RS). I find that we have ratified agreements and contracts on points as I have just indicated. I'm thanking you. Please, I thank and conclude the 50th session. Our next session is April 15th. It is certain that we will have those two points of the agenda: the report on the work of the Council of Ministers and the Action Plan, i.e. the liberalisation of the visa regime. The seat is closed at 18:30.
