ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6582	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 40th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today's session is attended by 12 delegates, five from the Bosniak order, three from Croatia and four from the Serb people. Mra Mladen Ivanić, Božo Rajić and Božo Ljubić are justly absent. For the 40th session, I would like to propose an updated 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 39th session of the House of Peoples; 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Act; 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 5. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Ministry Act and of other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 6. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Foreign Trade Traffic Control Act on goods and services of strategic importance for the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers (first reading); 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Military Commissioner of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Parliamentary Military Commissioner; 11. Annual Information and Security Policy Platform – Proposer of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency; 2 12. BiH Public Broadcasting Service 2008 audit report; 13. Report on the review of the donations made by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH between 2006 and 2008; 14. Report by the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the 2008 review of BiH institutions, with Opinion of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. Institutions with a positive opinion - BiH State Service Agency, - BiH Public Procurement Agency, - BiH Public Procurement Agency, - BiH Agency for Security of BiH, - BiH Post Office, - BiH Labour and Employment Agency, - BiH Statistics Agency, - BiH Archives, - BiH Ministry of Justice, - Central Election Commission BiH, - BiH Directorate for European Integration, - State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, - BiH Return Fund, - BiH Border Police, - BiH Institute for Standardisation, - BiH Ministry of Justice, - Board of State Service for Appeals, - BiH Law Department, - BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications, - BiH Joint Affairs Office, - BiH Court of Justice, - BiH Prosecutor's Office for Public Administration Reform, - BiH Constitutional Court, - The Institution for the Protection of Consumers, - The Institute for Persons of BiH, - The Institute for the Missing Persons of the BiH, - The Court of the BiH Court of the BiH, - The Court of Justice of Justice of BiH, - The Court of Justice of the BiH, - The Institute for the Publicity of Publicity, - the Publicity of Publicity of the Publics, - the Refugees of BiH, - the Commission for the Publics of the Publics of BiH, the Publics and the Publics of the Refugees of the Assemblys of the Assembly of BiH, the Assembly of BiH, Institutions with opinion and qualification; - the BiH Ministry of Defence, - the Office for indirect taxation of BiH, - the Agency for identification documents, records and data exchange, - the Agency for the Security of Food in BiH, - the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, - the BiH Ministry of Health Protection of Plants, - the Ministry of Communications and Transport, - the General Secretariat of the Council of BiH, Office and Service, - the Agency for Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH, - the BiH Presidency, - the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, - the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of BiH, - the Memorial Centre of Srebrenica, - the Institution for Civil Aviation of BiH, - the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of BiH, - the Office for Civil Affairs in BiH, the Office for the Review of Appeals, the Protection of Trade of BiH - the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH - the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH of BiH of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of the Republic of BiH of BiH, BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic Proposal for the appointment of Mirsad Salkić, a graduate electrical engineering engineer, as a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity - a proposal from the Council of Ministers of BiH; 16. An initiative to set up an investigative committee at the House of Nations to determine the circumstances regarding the issue of CEMT licences for the year 2009 to carriers in BiH – proposed delegate Dušanka Majkić; 17. An initiative by the delegates, Hazim Rančić, tasked with the BiH Council of Ministers, to draw up a draft law on the handling of the Ombudsman's office; 18. Information on the state of play regarding the untimely sending of convicted persons to support the punishment for insufficient capacity of prison institutions and security measures – the applicant of the BiH Ministry of Justice, delivered by the Constitutional Legal Commission to the House of Peoples; 19. A report on SIPA's work for January-September 2009 and statements on certain issues, with opinions and proposals from the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH; 20. Request to condemn threats and take measures to protect representatives of Republika Srpska in BiH institutions, with opinions and proposals from the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on Temporary Imports of ATA Carnet, Istanbul, 26 July 1990; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Stockholm Convention on Permanent Organic Contaminants, Štokholm, 22 May 2001. And that would be the agenda that we have completed with this one item on the agenda, as regards the draft Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. 4 Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Slobodan Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6584	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, my remark is on item 11, to specify this point in the agenda. Since we are adopting this year's platform, and here from the title of this agenda point is unclear what our obligation is here today, I think it should stand precisely: the adoption of the Annual Information and Security Agency Platform for 2010. So we often have points in the agenda that do not exactly see what our obligation is and what our task is here, because we often get inadequate and information and suggestions. In the name of the agenda, I think it is necessary to specify exactly what our obligation is. Since we're adopting the Annual Platform, then I think the name of the agenda should be 'Accepting the Annual Platform'. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6585	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If he doesn't answer, here we can make a certain adjustment to the agenda: considering this platform, whether we adopt it or not, not immediately adopt it, if Mr. Šaraba agrees? Consideration means under the 11th amendment by putting this word: Considering the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform. This rest stays the same. Here, we realize that another delegate, Božo Ljubić, has come, so we have four delegates from the order of the Croatian people instead of three as we initially found it. Since the agenda has been established, we move to point 1. Ad. 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and New Legislative Questions Delegate Hazim Rančić received an answer to the 38th session's question-initiative. I call upon him to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6587	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of institutions, the media, therefore, I received an answer to my question concerning credit funds that were not engaged, activated, and that is why certain penals are paid. I asked five to answer, "What are these loans, which are the amounts, how much have these pens been paid, and who is responsible for this state?" I'm happy with the content of the answer, because it's complete. He's given data since 1996, based on 2008 and part of the data for 2009, at the conclusion of 30. Nine. What is sad is that as a country in all, so all levels of government and certain institutions, unfortunately by 30 September 2009, we paid 18,458.587 marks due to the non-engagement of certain credit funds. That's sad. This is the responsibility of those who have not engaged in certain funds, whether it is the infrastructure of any level of government or of railways, certain centres, etc. What is it? It's here. All those in charge at a certain level of government, whether they are municipal councils, whether it be this Parliament or entity parliaments, or boards of directors, supervisory committees in public enterprises, should take account of this and take responsibility for those who are irresponsible to duties and resources. My initiative was to task the Council of Ministers to initiate a procedure that would establish reciprocity for all natural and legal persons from BiH with regard to the acquisition of property rights over real estate with countries of former SFRY republics. I got the answer, so I didn't ask for an answer, I had previously had a question on this subject and I hope that the Resort Ministry, I see, will launch certain activities in this area and will protect all natural and legal persons of BiH in a reciprocal manner with the republics of the former SFRY. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6588	Thank you very much. Since I asked the same question, then. I asked the question on January 29, 2009, here, Malten, after a year I received an answer to this question. The question was... you have it in front of you but about: 'Why does the Council of Ministers of BiH not propose amendments to the Excise Act and other regulations that would introduce reciprocity for all products, especially tobacco, all countries, especially neighbouring, the Republic of Croatia and Serbia, and thus ensure equal conditions for BiH producers and other markets?' From this answer, the question may not have been very well formulated, but from this answer here I come up with a lot of these clarifications and it is concluded that there is no big difference in the tax burdens of tobacco processing. We believe that there is no need for radical changes to the existing tax system, and especially from the aspect of the obligations undertaken by the signing of the international agreement." However, we have one fact that from BiH it is not possible to perform, I don't know, in Croatia no pack of cigarettes, and here we have a hundred million per year to import cigarettes from Croatia. I think this answer is missing something, something's missing. Because other than customs, we have those non-tariff and some other administrative barriers or obligations that are being established. When I asked the question of reciprocity, I thought of everything. If there are any other obligations there from the Ministry of Agriculture and says for every hell, it takes 15 kuna to pay some administrative fees, let's get 15 kuna in there right now, so they don't call us. So it's not just about the law, but probably up to these other barriers, so I'm not satisfied and I'm asking that this answer be complemented, to explain how it's possible that we, here, are back 10 years away, we can't carry out any pack of cigarettes and that in BiH we're flooded with cigarettes from neighbouring countries. I don't think that's right, because there's also the responsibility of the Council of Ministers and the Resort Ministry and all those who work in it, because they are still getting salaries from this country and their parents' pensions and children's schooling. We should all take care of it, 6 you know. We are all very sensitive to something if the CEFTA Agreement is violated, we are immediately being warned by both the European Commission and the others, and here we are for 10 years we cannot carry out one hell of a cigarette. Thank you very much. Now we move on to delegate issues. Who's answering for a word? Zoran Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6589	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present delegates from the House of Peoples, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, guests, representatives of the media. My delegation question is addressed to the BiH Finance Ministry and it concerns the overall responsibility of BiH at all levels of government, so-called. public debt, and this: 'How much is BiH's foreign debt currently on foreign loans? How much external debt was serviced in 2009? Who are BiH's biggest creditors? How much of this foreign debt applies to the Federation and how much to the RS and Brcko District? How much is the total so-called. BiH's internal responsibility and how much of it applies to the Federation and how much to the RS and Brcko District? So, is the overall debt of BiH moving within the framework of the criteria established... up to 60% of the total debt in relation to the gross social product and is the current public debt of BiH sustainable, and if its sustainability could be at stake? What is the structure of the purpose of foreign loans?" So all these issues and questions are directly related to the overall responsibility of BiH. Part of the answer to these questions is certainly in the budget of BiH, however, I think there are also issues not in the act, so I think the question is a setup and I ask the Ministry of Finance to answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6590	Thank you very much. Nice to Ljubičić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6591	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the vice-president, colleagues and colleagues of the House, gentlemen of the ministers, the other guests, I would like to refer my delegate question to the BiH Ministry of Security, and this concerns the following. Regarding the information reported by the media about mujahedins in the village of Grnja Maoca to carry out the battle ammunition drill from military weapons, I ask the question: '1. Did the BiH Ministry of Security have information about the presence, that is, the existence of mujahedin in the village of Gornja Maoca and their activities dangerous to the general security of the population and the state, and what did they do about it? 7 2. If they did not know of their presence, the existence in the village of Gornja Maoca, what did the BiH Ministry of Security take and do after the information reported by the media about mujahedins in the village of Gornja Maoca and their activities?" Reason: It is known to everyone that the mujahidins in BiH have come to war conflicts in BiH. In the Dayton Peace Accords in Annex 1. Article 3 of Chapter I found that all non-local forces must be withdrawn from BiH space within 30 days of the date of signing of the Peace Agreement and in Chapter II. The same member clearly stands 'and especially all foreign forces, including individual advisers, freedom fighters, instructors, volunteers, personnel from neighbouring and other countries, will withdraw from BiH territory, in accordance with Chapter I. Aneks 1.a." A bad message for BiH is that after 14 years of signing the Dayton Peace Agreement, it has been said of the men and women in BiH who pose a threat to the whole world, although we have had several warnings from OBA and SIPA that they are dangerous and for the security of our country. The particular issue of non-implementation of the Dayton Agreement in a very important annex related to the foreign armed persons or formations, which in itself says that BiH's competent institutions in this area are not qualified or do not want to fully implement the Dayton Peace Agreement annex. Next, the presence of mujahedin on the premises of BiH, and especially if they carry out the activities of the species mentioned, is assumed, at least what could be seen from the means of informing them to do so with part of the local population – a direct threat to the security of the population and the state, is a direct obstacle to the liberalisation of the visa regime for the citizens of BiH and the process of European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6592	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6593	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, my question was addressed to the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH and the International Commission for Search for Missing Persons... As is known, the municipal organisation of the family of captured and killed Srebrenica fighters has been looking for the remains of 64 Serb civilians and soldiers for more than 15 years, most of which were killed or disappeared in late '92. A year. Also in the Memorial in Miljevic for years there have been the remains of six Srbin who have been killed in the village of Zalazije. However, according to information from this organization, no DNA samples from these corpses have been taken to determine their identity. Accordingly, I ask that the following questions be answered: '1. Has the Missing Persons Institute specifically done something to find Serb civilians and soldiers in the Srebrenica area? 2. When will DNA samples from the remains found in the Memorial in Miljevići be taken in order to finally determine their identity?' 8 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6594	Is anyone else answering? Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6595	: I welcome you, Mr. President, thank you for your word, your co-chairs, your distinguished colleagues, the Council of Ministers' gentlemen, and everyone present today's session. My question concerns the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law that we adopted in our home. 12, it was actually published on December 1st of this year, and it was addressed to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council: 'Did the Sublaws in the High Judicial Council change according to this amendment?' It's explained in the letter that I don't take the time, you'll get my question on the tables.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6596	Thank you very much. If no one answered again, I'd ask one question too. Approximately, here's a question going to the RS government's address. The other day I received a birth certificate from the bosanski Šamc, there from the competent administrative authority, and in the birth certificate in the section that speaks of ethnicity, which speaks of religiousity is empty, nothing is filled. When I spoke to the head of the municipality, it was a very correct chief, and I asked him the question why, because other information is similar throughout the RS there when it comes to the ethnicity of the Serbian and Croatian people, but there is no sign-up with Bošnjak. He explained to me, there he tried, and he says we have to sign some kind of statement about ethnic or religiousity. However, I would ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to give a concrete answer, which is why, in birth certificates and other documents in the books of origin, when it comes to the ethnic and religious identity of Bošnjak, the section remains vacant. I don't want to make any conclusions here, to speculate anything, I don't think it's right through the question to do otherwise. Thank you very much. Since there are no more questions, I am concluding the agenda point Answering the delegates' questions and delegates' questions. We move to item 2 of the agenda: Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 39th session of the House of Peoples Is anyone answering their word? If no one answers, can we adopt this record? Who Is For? 9 Is Anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. I understand we've adopted the 39th session. Point 3. Ad. 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Act
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6599	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, we have received in writing a report from the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption. At the session of December 22nd, we found that the subject of the alignment of these eight amendments adopted at the 39th session of the House of Peoples and this commission unanimously accepted all the amendments offered and made this report. It is known that this law is one of the two remaining legal projects that are a condition for visa liberalisation. I suggest the House of Peoples accept this report. I don't think there's any need for me to explain all these individual amendments individually since we adopted them at the House of Peoples session. So, I propose to the House of Peoples to accept this report and finally... this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6600	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 118(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, we vote on the Report. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted the Joint Commission Report. Moving to point 4. 10 Ad. 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a report from the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Official Journal of BiH. The Joint Commission adopted an amendment that has become an integral part of the text of this law. The House of Representatives Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law is considering today's session that is under way. I give my word to the chairman of the Joint Commission, Dr Hilmo Neimarlija, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur for the House of Peoples. Here you go, Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6602	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, you have received a report from the Joint Commission and I urge you to adopt a report that has therefore reached agreement in the Joint Commission on this amendment that has just been adopted in our home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6603	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 118(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, we vote on the Report. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. I also find that we adopted this report unanimously. Point 5. Ad. 5. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Ministry Act and of other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina You've reached the Joint Committee's report on text alignment. The Joint Commission has adopted an amendment that has become an integral part of this law. The Joint Commission's House of Representatives reports both homes to reach agreement on the identical text of this law also discusses at today's session. I give my word to Zoran Koprivica, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur in the House of Peoples. Here you go, Mr. Koprivic. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6605	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you said, the Joint Commission for the Consensus of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH Administration at the session of December 22nd, with five votes "for", without the vote "against", one "abstained" vote, reached an agreement on the alignment of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration with this one amendment adopted at the House of Representatives. It's listed in the report. I don't think I need to read it. I propose to the House that we accept this report from the Joint Commission and declare this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6606	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 118(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, I shall also put this report to the vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. Are There “Restraints ”? Four votes "abstained", nine votes "yes", we have a majority. Moving to the 6th agenda: Ad. Six. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the same text of the Foreign Trade Traffic Control Act on goods and services of strategic importance for the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina You've reached the Joint Commission's report. The Joint Commission adopted three amendments that have become an integral part of the text. The House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report. I give the word to Slobodan Šarab, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6608	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, we've received a report from the Joint Commission on the alignment of three amendments, and I don't think there's any need for some broad explanation. I think it's quite reasonable in the text and that we can make a decision based on this and I suggest we adopt these three amendments. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6609	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 118. We're voting again on the report. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted the report, so that's why this law was passed. Point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers (first reading) You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. This is the first reading of the law, article 100. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the bill is based. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in the first reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6611	Thank you very much. At the last session, held on 15 December, the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly did not adopt a negative opinion sent by the Constitutional Legal Commission, and a new consideration of the principle of the proposed law was requested from the Constitutional Commission and a new opinion was requested. On the corrective exam, which was held at the 48th session, held on 23 December, we discussed the principles of the proposed amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure, i.e. the Penal Code of BiH, and with four votes "for" and one vote "against" we supported the principles of the proposed law, because we believe that the proposed text of the law can be referred to further procedure, that is to say today. And I suggest we accept the opinion of our committee and adopt today in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6612	Thank you very much. I give the word to the bill promoter, if he's present. Here you go, sir. Arnaut Srđan.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6613	Thank you, Chairman. 13 Dear Members of the House of Peoples,... this law contains quite significant changes and additions to the Criminal Law and, as is already known, it is actually one of the conditions which BiH, in fact, represents a change of this law, is one of the conditions that BiH must fulfil in order to bring about visa liberalisation. What is important is the issues that are regulated in a different way in this law are the issues of human trafficking, trafficking of persons, organisation of groups, endangerment of nuclear facilities, or nuclear waste trade, public promotion or financing of terrorist activities, etc. I think by adopting this law, regardless of what, I say, as next and second reading, BiH will be much closer to meeting the requirements for visa-free regime, because, I say, it will remove the two obstacles that stand in the way of this abolition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6614	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6615	I'll just take a moment, Mr. Chairman. Here, I would take the opportunity to attend the presence of the Justice Department's representative and the meeting, held on December 28th, here in the building next door, I wasn't at liberty to attend, although I received a late call for him, but I heard about the meeting. I am interested in the position, i.e. the conclusions of that meeting, if it has been held and if so, in the sense of the procedure which has been implemented so far and those issues and remarks which have been given to certain provisions, individual members of the law, if you can give us an answer, if you are in a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6616	All right, just wait till we see if anyone else has a question, and then you'll end up with everything. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6617	I would just like to say a few words, which is that last time we returned the report, as the chairman of the Constitutional Commissions said, and that we asked the Commission to reconsider, aware of how much we need this law and that any changes discussed at the House of Representatives today can significantly affect the repairs in those segments and in those members who are not to the extent of individual delegates in the House of People, and here we see also in the House of Representatives. So, we're pleading today on principles. Since the Constitutional Commission has also done its job as we expected, since at this point we know what it means to pass this law, I suggest that we do not open too much debate and support the principles on which it rests. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6618	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6619	Thank you very much. So our club also considered this item of the agenda and we all know that this law came through monitoring the application of criminal laws in BiH, beginning in 2003. We know that there is a team to monitor, assess and implement criminal laws, that they are doing so in co-operation with the resolution ministry, that a good part of these amendments and additions are actually implementing legislation... because we are in this way trying to bring our part of the criminal legislation into line with international conventions that BiH has signed and has an obligation to bring its criminal legislation into line with this. Therefore, it also concerns redefining certain statutes, concepts, new works, etc. As far as the principles are concerned, the Bosniak Club will support the adoption of this law in its first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6620	Thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6621	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like a quick one. It is true today that we are only pleading on the principles of this law, but I would perhaps pass on the debate from the Commission on European integration where BiH's visa liberalisation commitments have been discussed. And we all know that this law is one of the conditions for visa liberalisation and that the original version of the law, which was in the parliamentary procedure, has failed because a particularly criminal act of denial, reduction or approval of the crimes of holocausts, genocide and crimes against humanity was envisaged. This new version that we have today in the parliamentary procedure does not provide for a particularly criminal act, but foresees a qualified form of crime to cause national, racial and religious hatred, discord and impatience. And again on the Commission for European Integration, we had an indication that if this work remains like this in Criminal Law, in the second reading this law will not pass, so today it is a session of the House of Representatives. The constitutional law commission passed an amendment erasing the member from the BiH Criminal Law. This has no effect on today's debate on the principles of this law, however, I call on all delegates in the House of Nations to think well about any amendments that follow today following the adoption of the principles of this law, because I think it is not good that, in addition to eradicating a particularly criminal act, we are now eradicating this one compromise that occurred in the Ministry of Rights and in the Council of Ministers, by prescribing a qualified form of a special crime that concerns the cause of racial, religious and national hatred. 15 Well, this law is very important to us for the liberalisation of the visa regime, and I suggest that we all approach this second phase with great responsibility after today's adoption of this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6622	Thank you very much. If no one answers their word anymore, I don't know if Mr. Koprivica insists?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6623	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6624	Okay, you'll go directly. I'm putting the bill to the vote in the first reading. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. One “against. ” "Remained"?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6625	Who Is “against ”?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6626	Mr. Šaraba. I find that we have passed this law in the first reading, amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of BiH. Point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers (first reading) You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. This is the first reading of the law, article 100. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the bill is based. The House of Representatives adopted it in his first reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go, sir. Mr Ivo Miro Jović, president of the Constitutional Commission, is the report on the debate on this commission on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, first reading. 16 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6628	: Dear President, as it is the first reading, I suggest that our home adopt this opinion and give, since we unanimously adopted this opinion, this law into a second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6629	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers the question, we vote on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the proposal for a law amending the Law on State Service in the institutions of BiH in the first reading. Moving to point 9. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) You have received the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. This is the first reading of this law, article 100. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the bill is based. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in the first reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, Mrs Dušanka Majkić. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6631	Indeed, it should not be disputed that such a law was necessary to pass, because its principles rest on the fact that existing legal decisions are intended to issue a state guarantee only for the financing of capital investments and it is not possible to issue guarantees... intended for other programmes which are of particular importance for the country's economic stability. Also, at a time of the global economic crisis, in order to ensure favourable conditions for loans on the global financial market, the state's guarantee as a type of lender's insurance is explicitly sought. One such request came from the EBRD and these changes and are complemented by one of the Council of Ministers' measures to mitigate the impact of the global economic crisis on BiH's economy. Therefore, you have seen that small changes, as amended in Article 1. where an insurance instrument is extended for a borrower which is not financed from the budget and alternatively... are the guarantees of entities, i.e. Distirka, that, instead of Article 2 relating to Article 54 (2), 17 of the exception to the limitation of the purpose of state guarantees has been introduced, their purpose for financing capital investments has been extended and the borrowing of the borrower for the implementation of projects that are of particular importance for the country's economic stability. Finally, Article 3(3) introduces a restriction within the meaning of the prohibition of issuing state guarantees for funds intended to cover current costs, covering losses, covering budget deficits, etc. So this law is necessary, necessary, principles are clear and I suggest that the House adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6632	Thank you very much. I give my word to the legislator of this law, if he is present. Mrs Muratović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6633	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs and others, I would like to welcome you. I am Zakira Muratović, assistant minister at the finance and vault ministry. I thank Mrs. Majkić for the exhaustive explanation, so I have nothing to add to that. It is a significant law, however, which I would like to stress here that one of the conditions for this law, namely to obtain credit, or guarantee for the Depositary Agency and the adoption of this law, since the European Bank expects the signing of the contract to take place during January, would be very good for us to end the adoption of this law, given that it is a law in which only two members are being changed. And in that sense, I would ask, if there are no special difficulties about it, that today this law, if possible, is also being considered in another reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6634	Thank you very much. Mr. Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6635	Here, I'd just say that you have in mind that this money only goes into the potential of the Guarantee Agency. If that money isn't used, we don't pay for it. So, only if a guarantee went down and charged, would I get paid a small interest. So this is very good. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, it should really be adopted in both readings. There's no dilemma at all. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6637	Okay, thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If he does not answer for the word, then we should adopt the first law in the first reading, and we expect that if the budget passes at the House of Representatives, we would have a special session at which to adopt the budget for 2010, then we could also include this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6638	No, not right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6639	But the secretary says we can't, we have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6640	Oh, you don't have to when he's by...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6641	Formally-legal yes, but we can do both readings, so don't complicate the matter. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6642	We can. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading, so we can finish it at the second session. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. I find that we passed the bill in the first reading. And it would be good if, in the meantime, this commission were to meet in the break, to give an opinion and to adopt it in the second reading today. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Military Commissioner of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Parliamentary Military Commissioner You have received the Proposed Rules of Procedure as well as the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. The Joint Commission has adopted the text of this Rules of Procedure and is proposing to the House its adoption. The House of Representatives is considering today's session, which is under way. 19 I give the Word to the Proposer of this Rules of Procedure, if he is present. I'm sorry. I give my first word to the chairman of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, Branko Zrn.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6644	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. I mean, there's no need here for a parliamentary military commissioner to explain this proposal to us. He was really done by, let's say, the standard of agreement before he came before the competent commission. On behalf of this working parliamentary body, I propose that we accept the proposed Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6645	Thank you very much. Here, I apologize, but here's Boško Šiljegović's proposal if he thinks there's something else he needs to say, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6646	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Council of Ministers, very briefly. So I would also like to thank the Joint Commission for the defence and security and members of the Joint Commission who have participated and helped me to adopt this Rules of Procedure. Namely, the Law on Parliamentary Military Commissioner who entered into force 7. I was obliged to propose a certain sublegal act. One of these sublegislative acts is "A businessman on the work of a parliamentary military commissioner". There'll be more rules and guidelines. At the same time, a sublaw for the application of the Law on Parliamentary Military Commissioner is adopted at the Ministry of Defence. Many of the Joint Commission have participated. I am taking the opportunity to thank them and to say that there are needs and I expect you to adopt this Rules of Procedure today, because already in the Office of the Parliamentary Military Commissioner there are five-six-seven complaints and we cannot act until this Rules of Procedure is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6647	Okay, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone answer for a word? He's not answering. We're going to vote. We're voting on the draft rules of procedure. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Rules of Procedure on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner. 20 We move to point 11. Ad. 11. Discussion of the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform – Proposer: BiH Presidency You have received the Joint Commission's report on the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency. The House of Representatives is considering the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform at today's session, which is under way. I give my word to Božo Rajić. He's gone. In fact, if there's anyone else on this committee. Here, Mr. Koprivica answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6649	I wouldn't talk about the Annual Platform for long. We got it in writing. She's already been adopted at the House of Representatives. We have had this platform on the Commission's work surveillance, and we have found that it is made up of all the priorities and areas of action that are important for BiH, that it contains certain chapters that are priority in this security policy and that specific tasks are listed on individual issues and segments. It was found that this year for the first time in a period of time, the Annual Platform was delivered by the Presidency as an authorised promoter. I propose to the House that this platform be accepted by us today at this session of the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6650	Thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? Mr. Šaraba and Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6651	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will say a few words about the Annual Platform and present my disagreement with this platform and with the priorities set out in this platform. Namely, if we read last year's Annual Platform and the one we have in front of us today, we'll see that they agree on 99% of the text. Small change in the one who signed this, changed in dates and formal things, which new sentences, nothing essential or anything other than what was last year. With all the respect and professionalism of those who have made this platform, I would like to point out my opinion that the priorities of the Intelligence and Security Agency are not exactly written, and I personally believe that there are two precise and two clear priorities in BiH that must be clearly highlighted. Unfortunately, they are mentioned here in the text but without clear emphasis. 21 Therefore, the fight against radical terrorist groups and terrorist activities of individuals should be a clear and precise priority as well as that the Intelligence and Security Agency will collect data on all forms of corruption that pose the biggest threat to the country's economic stability. These are, in my opinion, two of the most important and important priorities of the Intelligence and Security Agency. So in these priorities, the fact is that they are mentioned but somewhere at the very end, but in my opinion, they mention some things that absolutely shouldn't be mentioned in those priorities. The mention of armed aggression is true, as a small possibility, the mention that the Intelligence and Security Agency will contribute to the smooth implementation of reforms and other institutions, in my opinion – not some of the priorities that should be found in the way they are highlighted in this document. Why isn't the fight against corruption put in the first place, I don't get it? So I think that this should be highlighted, that it should be put first and that it should be one of the top priorities of the Intelligence and Security Agency, of course, in addition to the fight against potential, radical and terrorist groups and activities. Therefore, my main observation is that the priorities set out in this document are not highlighted in the way they should have been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6652	Okay, thank you very much. Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6653	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, I meant very briefly to talk about the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform, which is an indicative annual plan, certifying a plan, not precise and concrete for the work of the OSA in 2010. What I was thinking of saying was that as Parliament, we have achieved one level of success in the sense that at the end of the year the Annual Platform for the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency is being adopted in the coming year. If you remember some discussions before, and who wants to do an analysis, there was a year when the annual platforms were not adopted at all. So, the Joint Commission for the Control of the Work of the Intelligence and Security Agency and both of these homes, supporting the reports and work of the Joint Commission in communication and with the OSA, and for God's sakes, here with the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, we have managed to come up with this through questions, through initiations, through requests that those who are competent to prepare this platform to Parliament and that we adopt it. So it's our first success to adopt the Annual Platform in time. Of course, in the process of work and parliaments and the Intelligence and Security Agency and the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, this platform should always be developed, built, repaired and for each coming year it should be better, more concrete, but all of this must, of course, be contained in the relevant support, in the first place, I mean in financial support to that 22 agency. So, it must be precisely stated by the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and Parliament what we want this agency to do, of course, on the basis of the law and its jurisdiction, that financial, technical and humane that it has this independence, which is not disputed, that we support it and, of course, after that we are considering reports of work, results, and to say whether we are satisfied or not with their work and whether they justified the funds invested, budget funds in their work, as well as for other institutions. I didn't mean to talk about the details, but that's what my esteemed colleague Šaraba offered me to say that these things aren't in this platform. I just can't agree with that. So this platform is based on the Intelligence and Security Agency Act. There are challenges prescribed, security disturbances, there is their jurisdiction, and therefore the Annual Platform is made for it. Not only is this contained, these terms in the priorities that the colleague spoke of, but it is also contained in Chapter II - The areas of the activities of the OSA where you have a separate intelligence collection and their competence in the field of terrorism and radical action, and related to actions punishable under international humanitarian law, and organised crime under 'd' threatens the foundations of economic security and espionage directed against BiH, counterintelligence protection, international co-operation, the system of overall security, co-operation, etc. Now, if something was supposed to be under a) be either b) or c), here's what we can discuss, but I don't think it's our point. This is an indicative plan, and I think that OSA, within its detailed plan, should work and respond to every security threat throughout the year, so when it appears, both in January and December 2010. So, I suggest we support and bring this platform for the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6654	Mr. Branko Zrno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6655	Thank you. I just wanted to figure out a few things without any intention of touching or trying to change anything in the offered platform. I will conclude that it is good that every year we have this platform and that we have in time, and I will conclude that this platform is also built on the basis of the law, but also on the basis of operational knowledge in the course of this year, and that is why certain priorities are being made, although the question of what is being asked by my colleague Slobodan simply is the order of priorities or priorities. I think the important priorities here are all listed. And they can change in this platform during the year, of course, in other ways and in other order, but I think that this is a pretty good document based on who works and works with the Intelligence Security Agency, and I suggest that we all support it and end it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6656	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Ilija Filipović. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6657	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and all those who follow our work. So with a few words I'm just going to look back on this very significant document. And what Mr. Šaraba said does not differ much from the previous document of this kind, the previous platform offered by the Presidency to Parliament, but has some newspapers. I'd just like a few words from that one newspaper that creates a certain confusion and I think it's coming out of the framework, even the competences of the OSA. On page 4, in the section Intelligence Data Collection, second paragraph of 'OSA will pay particular attention to the data of importance for achieving BiH's fair interests, lists them now which are just interests, refers to the succession of the former Yugoslavia, the collection of data that will contribute to resolving certain issues with the countries and now says "BiH's right to go out to the open sea and to data that will contribute to improving overall relations with neighbouring countries." I think it's a very bad syntagma found in this platform and it doesn't belong in a document like this. This is a legal issue, and this is a strict legal issue, which regulates international law standards, then regulate if the two countries cannot agree on it. If not, then some arbitration is being arranged to resolve it; well, if not, then, according to international standards, these issues are being settled in an international court. This is a question Croatia has already had, I am not a Croatian lawyer, but I repeat, and I am pulling a parallel with Slovenia so that in BiH we do not have this same relationship with the neighbour – it might be wise and wise to leave this sentence, the whole'BiH's right to go out to the open sea', because this is not some intelligence information. This is one finding, one desire to prejudge the matter without talking to the neighbouring country, with which we have very many open questions. They will be dealt with painfully if we jump in this way with new questions in some new documents. And I think this Presidency still prejudges the matter when it comes to going out, we know all the stories, not to repeat them, about building the Peljega Bridge, about the other corridors, about the Adriatic-Ionian road, about entering, about going out, about going out, about opening that question. But let's not prejudge the matter in this document that has... one noble goal, that we determine in Parliament the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform. Neither this is intelligence, nor this is security information, this is a... pure legal matter that will regulate two countries. Thank you very much. So, if we don't leave out this syntagma, I call on the Hrvat in this house not to support this platform because of this syntagmic that's lupeški in the presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6658	Mr. Drago Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6659	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as this platform is concerned, we all know that it is one of the legal obligations of the Presidency that should in time deliver this platform to the adoption of one and the other home which in one particular way is the basis for planning the work and activities of the Intelligence and Security Agency. It is a good thing that by insisting on this commission and also at our home, and I believe that at the House of Representatives, however, this 24 platform comes in time, compared to the previous, this year. I appreciate the thoughts, suggestions and possible suggestions in setting certain priorities, although I personally think when it comes to sorting these priorities, in my opinion, it's important that all this is suggested to be found in this platform. And personally, I think it's a legal and obligation for the Intelligence and Security Agency, regardless of what order this is lined up in this platform, that they simply assess on the basis of their professional assessments what the priority is, and I hope that they will do so and that they will take their own activities as part of it. And I think the proposed Annual Platform should be supported as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6660	Thank you very much. Here, Mrs. Majkić's answering for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6661	I really didn't mean to speak at all, but I want to try to overcome this situation so that it doesn't happen that the Annual Platform that the Presidency approves and sends, prepares the Council of Ministers, and adopts the Parliamentary Assembly and, because of this misunderstanding that Mr Filipović has seen, I suggest that we do not plead today on the Annual Platform, that we return it to this commission to make another attempt to coordinate this part of the Presidency that is controversial so that it does not happen that the Annual Platform ends negatively. I think we should find an understanding of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6662	Here, I'm giving my word now, if no one else is answering in the meantime. Ladies and gentlemen, I... I think this question is needlessly politicized and given some qualifications that don't stand, you know, especially something lukewarm and evil. Evil may be children, a thief can't be a Intelligence Security Agency. I don't know why it would bother anyone here right now that the Intelligence and Security Agency will pay particular attention to the data of importance for achieving BiH's fair interests in the process of synergy of the former SFRY, the collection of data that will contribute to resolving the open issues of the state border. All this is necessary, we need to have relevant information. So, even when we talk about the state border, someone needs to collect these data, one, another agency and service. So, in order to resolve it in a peaceful way and in an agreement, and to eventually not go to court. If he's in court, we need that data again, etc. I don't know who would mind BiH's right to go out to the open sea, I don't think anyone's even challenging us from Croatia. modals are required to be established. So, what's this for? Let's gather the arguments, the data to get rid of it in a quality and fair way. It is said of a fair way, I think there is no reason to interpret it in this way as Mr Filipović interpreted it. After all, we fight for the interests of BiH, that's our country, everyone says. The fact that the Intelligence and Security Agency is going to collect as much data as possible to get us to a fair solution, I don't think it should be a distraction to anyone. Normally, I'm not even voting for it, you might support what Mrs. Majkić says, but it's already been all the way through the process, but I don't see anything here that would focus on bad relations with neighbors or anything else. It's clearly about fair interests, it's clearly about data collection 25 that will help solve open issues. We have open questions, let's gather all the data. Also, services from Croatia and other countries collect their data to address these issues. If we're going to have, how right is that, which is the modality of going out to the open sea, which is why we need arguments, we need data. Why can it bother someone? Is anyone else answering for word? Here, Mr. Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6663	Thank you very much. Dear President, I answer your last sentence – it bothers me, and it bothers me very much. And you know why? Because this word'BiH' cannot stand, and this is indeed a wicked sentence. The question will be asked why, like me, Ivo Miro Jović and Hrvat, I answer when it comes to such an evil sentence. I'm not answering for that, I'm answering for the profession. I'll remind you, it's ugly to remind you, but I'll say, the approach of the BiH Sea to Neum is the result of the Firefighter Peace, the International Treaty, and the granting of territories to the Ottoman Empire by Dubrovnik in Sutorina and Neum. No going out to sea, read an international document, no access to the sea, never had Turkey customs at sea in Neum. And here we are talking about sharing the Republic of Croatia, officially in a two-part document. Since I'm a citizen of two states, I owe it to justice and justice to say this, because they're both mine and both beautiful, and I stand up for both of them. But this is not how it stands for the neighborhood, not the friendship and the future. By whom there is little, let him go to Sutorin and seek a way out to the sea, not to share the Republic of Croatia in two parts. And that is why it is wicked and here on purpose when the Republic of Croatia has any problems on the international agenda. God Bog he's our neighbour, Slovenia, on his way into the EU. Don't give it to Bog, and we're witnessing these facts. I don't mind the intelligence agency doing what it does to protect BiH's interest, the overall security in it, however, is her job. It's the Bureau's job to encourage her to do it, and she's asking me to do it at home, and I stand for it. But this is how you go out to the open sea? And when BiH had to go out to sea and what sea, I set up for myself and you. Does anyone bother ships, which are ships, that come to BiH to go out to sea? That's the question, did anyone get in the way? There is one approach to the sea, and here it says going out to sea. Yes, but to Trebević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6664	Mr. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6665	Well, here, I think it is the smartest thing to do at this point to support Mrs. Majkić's proposals and today not to make a statement about this, because really this formulation is inaccurate and can also contain such implications as Mr. Filipović and Mr. Ivo Miro Jović spoke of. If this is about a... passageway, a waterway, etc., I mean, I absolutely don't see any reason not to support such a formulation. However, if it is true about reaching territorial waters, etc. The neighbouring states, I, like, here's a citizen and one and another country who cares, I believe as much as the rest of you, to the good relations of these two countries, I couldn't support it. So I think there's absolutely a need to bring this back and come up with a better formulation that won't contain any of these implications that might come to mind, to put it this way... 26
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6666	Wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6667	Here you go, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6668	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I may have reacted a little slowly but I was thinking about whether to tell Mr. Jović – the question of his story and the mention of Sutorina which, in my personal opinion, he mentioned in a negative context. I don't think you should have mentioned it that way, since there's a story about Sutorina long ago and about her being part of BiH's territory at some point, but you mentioned it in an extremely incorrect way, Mr. Jović, and I don't think it's good to mention it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6669	Okay. Anyone else answer for a word? Replica, Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6670	"I'm not incorrect, maybe it was negatively bad in history. I just said what happened in history. On the same day, on the same signed Peace Treaty in Pogorevec... between the Ottoman Empire, Venice and Austria was the subject, and Dubrovnik was the same to protect its interests and land routes for trading with the Ottoman Empire to give up its territory in Sutorina and Neum, the same day, the same hour, the same document. Today, Neum is in BiH, Sutorina is not. Now, as Dubrovnik has given its territory, the sea should now be taken, and we will be silent about what is the subject of the international treaty. I recall that the International Treaty in Pozarevc was signed in Serbia.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6671	Okay. Mr. Rančić reporting for word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6672	So here's why I just want to react to a part of my colleague Jović's discussion, which was like this at a part outside of the agenda and in a very emotional, rough way, so he's kind of threatening to tell us what's going to happen and what's not going to happen. So, BiH as a state has its international and legal subjectivity, has its legal continuity, has its borders, has its own territorial, is it, inviolability and its sovereignty, both domestically and internationally. So, all these things, the question and borders and territories and sovereignty, so here, if anyone sees these little things as questionable to him, it will be settled in accordance with domestic regulations but also international regulations concerning the issue. So, this thing will not be the way Jović tells us to do, because he orders it, or what he may lifts his finger, etc., but will be under domestic and international law. And I am sure that we will also fight for continuity, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of BiH in accordance with domestic and international law. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6673	Okay. Mr. Jović, the replica again. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6674	: Dear counterpart Rančić, it is incorrect to attribute to me at least that I have touched BiH's sovereignty and integrity. That's exactly what I stand for. BiH has never gone to the open sea and this should not stand there. Access to the sea, yes, and that no one disputes, but this is really wickedly inserted here. I also thought that you would support it, that BiH would remain in its borders as a sovereign country, not reach for other people's territory, and in this way reach for other people's territory. Then let's leave it to the committees as you said. I want good neighbourly cooperation just like that. And that is why I said: God Bog the Republic of Croatia should be Slovenia in our accession to the European Union, in this way it will be, because it will be forced.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6675	Okay. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6676	: Dear colleague, there is no need to throw me, but BiH, it, the Republic of Croatia has never bordered with Montenegro.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6677	Here, let's not go into unnecessary width now... Branko Zrno, here you go, then...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6678	Thank you very much. I was going to really cancel this story about the spy platform, by saying I'm sorry because I missed the formula that's in this second paragraph in this part of intelligence data collection, actually the essence of the problem here is this word'real'. We have all become international lawyers several times already, both lawyers and experts in the law of the sea and here and history, etc. Getting out of this is this word "right," it's absolutely extra here and the sentence behind it is coming, because watch out, the platform can't prejudge. The platform can be asked by a certain agency to do its job, but here they prejudged certain things that are or are not and we will not now and I am not in favour of getting into that story, but I am in favour of supporting what Mrs. Majkić suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6679	Thank you very much. Adem Ibrahimpašić. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6680	Oh, here, I think things are getting rough around here, and they're sharpening from nothing. This question, no matter what anyone thinks of him, can be no different than it is according to some international law, and that will be the case. And if someone thinks they have the right and they're looking for the right, no one can forbid it. So, I think we're leading around nothing, and it's a very ugly debate, and here I am, let's go over to this opinion of Mrs. Majkić, so let's put it off, so somebody sit down, some word and cross from those formulations, as they say, but someone has the right to collect documentation about something to prove something, whether they're going to collect it, whether they can prove it, that was on the willow. But he has the right to try to prove that he owns it. Here, so let's accept what Majkić says, and see what happens.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6681	If no one is answering for a word anymore, then I suggest what Mrs. Majkić has suggested that this platform be returned to the Commission to reconsider it once again, given what was presented today, and that this platform be re-established at the next session of the agenda. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. I realize we've made a decision like this, as it was said. Now we move to point 12. Ad. 12. BiH Public Broadcasting Service Revision Report 2008 You have received a report from the Finance and Budget Commission. The Commission adopted the Audit Report and proposed to the House its adoption. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Mrs Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6683	Here, we have finally received a report on the review of the BiH Public Broadcasting Service's financial operations and I remind you that at the 36th session of the House of Peoples of 1. Ten. In 2009, the following conclusion was adopted: 'The People's House will consider the 2008 BHRT Business Audit Report after being delivered by the BiH Institutions' Audit Office in October 2009. 'years.' Here, we got something later, but finally this report came. I also remind you that we have had the report on the audit carried out by REVSAR, as a commercial audit, but that Parliament and the committee responsible is required under the Audit Act to consider the 29 audit reports carried out by the BiH Institutions. What is, in fact, what is the situation, taking great care that and all the time I ask my colleagues to keep in mind that we are discussing the Audit Report, so not on the report on BHRT's work, because that is the responsibility of the second commission, it is likely that this second commission will be determined. We are today discussing the report on the 2008 review of the BiH Public TV Service. So we got this report, which came to us seven. 12. Here, the Commission found the following in its examination. So, the audit office completed the review of the 2008 Report and, before that, the last time the Office for Audit carried out an audit of BHRT for 2005 and 2006, and, I remind you, that the report was negative. He contained a lot of remarks about the work of this service. Afterwards, in 2007 and 2008, REVSAR works as a commercial audit, and here in 2008 it again did, and at the request of the Commission of this home, the Office for Audit. What it contains: eight qualifications, two distractions and 30 recommendations. However, somewhat less than we had when the audit office last audited for 2005 and 2006. There are a whole range of qualifications, and these are essential qualifications, which is that BHRT did not have adopted accounting standards for 2008, whose lack had a significant impact on the revenue policy for RTTV's fees, recognition, demand and procedure of the write-off of outstanding claims, that BHRT's mutual financial relations with the RTTV Federation were not based on a credible invoice price list, that BHRT had non-compliant claims, mutual claims and obligations with other public broadcasters. That BHRT does not pay the Single Account of Revenue... on the basis of marketing, however, as well as the other two broadcasters, nor schedules them in a regulated manner and that... the actual justification of granting a discount on marketing revenues could not be established, these are the famous discounts that move up to 70%. Furthermore, the Office for Audits says BHRT has not shown a suspicious and controversial claim for the 2005 TV fee, totalling 2.3 million, and has not corrected the expenditure burden. That the obligations towards suppliers are not fully agreed, that the age structure of these obligations is unfavourable, and the significant amount of old obligations to suppliers is not paid. Furthermore, that BHRT... carried out a new task in 2008, and this on a short-term loan of a million marks, without prior approval of the Management Board because, as far as I know, the Director-General has the right to up to 10,000 marks, everything else remains in the power of the Management Board. Furthermore, BHRT’s business books show objects for which the right of ownership, or at the disposal, is not established. Furthermore, this significant amount of objects for which... no property-legal relations have been resolved, and then buildings built on land subject to a specific regime of administrative solution, facilities built on private property etc. The reference to the revision that advances are paid for the production of the supply programme of goods in 2006 and 2007 are still not justified. If BHRT had not made part of the procurement, it had not made the choice of the most favourable bidder in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. That the selection procedure for the most favourable bidders was not fully carried out in accordance with that law and therefore the Office for Audit gave an opinion with the reserve. So qualification: opinion with reserve. A whole series of disregard for public procurement procedures, so I don't get all that. The key thing is, however, the one related to the 2007 and 2008 corrections of financial reports. Therefore, corrections to the financial reports for 2007 and 2008 were made in 2009 based on findings and recommendations from the Report on the revision of the 2008 Financial Report of REVSAR and the detailed proposal for a correction of the BHRT financial service. So obviously, it was data that were not present or written on purpose at 30 times when the financial report was made up. The audit of the financial reports for 2007 and 2008 gave the audit firm a qualified opinion, hence the reserve opinion, with the observation that BHRT did not make corrections to the contested claims on the basis of which it was necessary to increase the expenditure of BHRT and to note that more recorded revenues on behalf of satellite leases and that no loss was shown on this basis and therefore the Board of Directors of BHRT did not accept the reports for 2007 and 2008. The proposed corrections were made by the BHRT Financial Service, confirmed by the audit firm and the BHRT Management Board, resulting in a 5.8m loss in the financial business. So instead of the positive report that it was there, the audit report confirmed that it was a loss of 5.8 million. In which the correction is contained, it means that it was carried out on Day 1. 1. In 2009, it is therefore in the balance sheet that the basic amount of capital is 38 million, about 38 million, not to count it, accumulated loss of 14.2 million, so the total capital of BHRT is 23.8 million, which says the balance of success shows that the loss of BHRT was 5.8 million. The total corrections made on the day 1.1 for 2007 and 2008 were also related to the following items: reduction of claims and misrecordings, i.e. 1.1 million; reduction of suspicious disputed claims over one year; reduction of regular claims from federal television; reduction of other regular claims from customers in the country and abroad, so that the total correction under that item is 3.6 million. The increase in the cost of incasso service and short-term demarcation is one million. Therefore, on the basis of all the data presented, on the basis of what the Office for Audits has presented in its report, the Commission considers that this report should be accepted as it is. At the same time, I can tell you that we've had a great deal of trouble with that, given the countless conclusions that have been made so far in this institution. I only remind you that four commissions, two House of Representatives committees and two committees of the House of Peoples for more than two years deal with an institution called BHRT. Many conclusions have been made and many of these conclusions, and that is largely not realised. So that's a special problem where we are now. Therefore, when this commission made the final decision, we made what we had to make, which is not a premise... that the conclusions we proposed would be the only conclusions, so we left the possibility to propose and the new ones we didn't have in mind, but concerning only the 2008 audit report, so that, as you saw, we suggested that the House of Peoples ask the Public TV Service to immediately approach the removal of the deficiencies according to the 2008 audit report. It's our obligation, we don't have, it's a primary obligation to ask them to start taking care of the situation in the house they live in. The second thing is that the House of People is asking the Public TV Service to immediately approach all the conclusions of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. I would like to remind you, in particular, that the conclusions of the 2007 Finance and Budget Commission to the House of People and the House of People have confirmed these conclusions: 'The House of the Peoples orders the Board of Directors of BHRT to, in compliance with the recommendations of the audit of earlier years, hires a consulate who will determine the real financial situation, assess BHRT's assets, and make a proposal for measures to exit the existing situation. The People's House believes that the review report should be sent to the Prosecutor's Office and the People's House obliges the Competition Council to take steps to prevent the monopoly on the Markentin public service market in BiH." So many conclusions have made both homes, and according to this, we ask that BHRT immediately approach the execution of all the previous conclusions of the House of Nations. 31 '3. The Nationals are asked by the Public TV Service to submit within 30 days of the receipt of the conclusion to the Finance Commission and the Budget Plan for removing recommendations from the 2008 Audit Report and to specify in particular the recommendations of the revision that BHRT is unable to implement itself. Let it be said: so many people depend upon us, beyond that line we cannot. And in the end: '4. That the House of People thinks that the 2008 Business Audit Report of the Public TV Service should be sent to the Prosecutor's Office, because this is one of the few examples of the revision finding this number of recommendations. I think this is the second case, the first time it was BHRT with 40 recommendations in 2005-2006, and here is now 30 recommendations for 2008." Here, these were approximately the views of the Finance and Budget Commission. I hope that colleagues will not open up questions all here that are related to the situation in BHRT, to changes or changes, to all the memos that come to us, to which we are buried, because we are practically obliged to communicate with the Management Board chosen by this Parliament, and to communicate between the Management Board and the Director, they can solve this on their own within the institution, and not with this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6684	Thank you very much. Here, we had one exhaustive opening statement with all the necessary clarifications. I'm opening a debate. Ivo Miro Jović reports, so Adem Ibrahimpašić. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6685	Thank you very much. I am pleased that this commission has been persistent and has formed, as a result of its work, such a comprehensive and concise one report. I have nothing to add, but I have taken away. In the proposal for conclusions these three points would be, I think, quite justified. However, point '4. The People's House believes that the 2008 Business Audit Report of the Public TV Service should be sent to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH', I believe it is neither the role of this commission nor this home. The authorities are both auditors and the D.A.'s office. Where the prosecution finds the need for a reaction based on the audit report, I deeply believe it will. We will also have another point of discussion right now at this meeting of the “Revision Office Report” and we will see one longer list of those who have not satisfied and had a good transition at the audit house compared to those who have been properly and honestly, in the opinion of the audit, worked. If we are to be consistent then with all those – and for years we have received negative reports from all of them, we make conclusions, persistent negative opinions come – that we may be the ones to support the prosecution's documentation. For principle reasons, I wouldn't want to be a part of it. Anyway, let the D.A. deal with all the reports that are relevant to him, because they are available to him, the ones that the audits are making. And it's not, I mean, the Home's task to determine any of the ines that do business, which I am to introduce order and discipline, and that the D.A.'s office is doing its job, just not on my recommendation to the other one, but on the recommendation that we require when it comes to us; if there's work for the D.A., I'd rather make that decision. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6686	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić wants a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6687	One explanation, colleague Jović. If it were enough for the audit report to be done and sent to the prosecution, then there is no need for Parliament to discuss it. What is Parliament's task? Public money control, public money spending. The Office for Audit and the Commission for Finance and Budgets, i.e. Parliament, are partners in the same task. What does that mean when the office sends a review report? That can mean it, but it doesn't have to. But when Parliament adopts it, it is our property, it no longer has; until we adopt it, it is the jurisdiction of the Office for Audit, the moment we vote for it, we are the bearers and owners of it, and we define our recommendations accordingly. BiH institutions would not behave the way they behave if the power of this parliament was stronger. So we see that there is progress compared to the previous years, we will see it now at one of the next points, but until we work hard, and it means that tomorrow we have a special commission that will deal exclusively with and only with the audit report, and this joint commission, so that there will be no confusion between the institutions based on the conclusions that we send. Therefore, Parliament's role in the audit reports is very important and all of our recommendations should be adopted. So it's not writing by heart, it can do that, if you think it, then we don't need to talk about it at all, it's the task of the moment when we raise our hand, our task to accept ownership of the audit reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6688	Thank you very much. Here's the wrong quote, Mr. Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6689	: Right in the previous point, we were talking about the Annual Security Platform... and this platform is growing on issues and it is crucial and the distinguished colleague Šaraba has suggested that the issue of all forms of corruption is more potent. And if we have a platform like that, we have a security sector that deals with these issues, we have, that posters the D.A.'s office, I don't want to be the one to encourage the D.A.'s Office for his work. I don't think it's Parliament's job, no one's going to convince me to be an instigator with the body of the government in the tripartite section – judicial, executive and legislative. And I think it's at least incorrect if I'm asked to make a statement. Incorrectly ask the House to press charges against the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6690	Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić, then Slobodan Šaraba, then Drago Ljubičić. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6691	... One more conclusion. [[no microphone turned on]] So, this is the conclusion that I propose: 'The home of the people of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requires all those responsible in public tv services to do everything in order to implement the Law on the Public TV System, which requires the establishment of a corporation that would make all three broadcasters in BiH.' Why? This is due to the fact that the audit report in point 2 of the opinion states this as the main cause of the collapse of the business of RTBH. If we've passed that law, or some parliament has, perhaps this one before us, and if we are now acting like we're passing a panel, as if it's not important in all of this, then it's our credibility. So I suggest that this conclusion is certainly put to the vote and that all these other conclusions be put to the vote one by one, not in the package, so that everyone can vote as they wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6692	Thank you very much. Slobodan Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6693	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, so in the last two years we've been working intensively in BHRTV. We've had numerous reports and the board of directors and management and, finally, we know the real situation. After this audit report I think the truth has surfaced, the true condition is known. The board of directors often and in very many situations referred exactly to doing this audit report and, of course, it showed one condition that the business reports coming from the management had been cut off, so they were not correct. And in those reports there were many things that were absolutely incorrect. I finally found out that the board of directors unanimously, which is very significant, chose by the director of television, Mrs. Putica, I think she's here, brought it on TV. However, here I see Mr. Agović, former director, and I find it really strange... in which function he is present here. I don't know if there's Mr. Durmo, I don't know him, so here he is, I'm glad the man is here and I'm glad that this is the leadership that took over BHRTV with these audit reports and with this many conclusions here. I expect them to do their job professionally and responsibly. However, I ask another question: In what function is the former director here, who was definitely resolved yesterday, and absolutely no points of contact with BHRTV? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6694	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Ljubičić. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6695	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every year... when the BiH institutions' audit reports were on the agenda, it seems to me that we were the most delayed, both at the Finance and Budget Committee sessions and at our home sessions, just on the RTVBH audit report. All our efforts to introduce more order in the RTBH, as a public service, have not yielded fruit, although here we are witnessing this report that there are certain improvements. It is not safe what we still want, because we have a review report in front of us again, as Mrs Dušanka Majkić said, and we could see it from the report itself: eight qualifications, two distractions and 30 recommendations, which in itself speaks enough about what kind of report is being done and what is the state of this public service. If I don't take up a lot of your time, I'll give you my opinion for a while. Personally, I don't think that there's a clean relationship between RTVBH and Federal TV where you don't know who and who does who, who who what and why they're making up, who they're charging and looking for, etc., I personally think is one of the basic problems, which is registered and shown in this audit report. Personally, I also think that employees of these houses, both in one and the other, means not only enough in one, but also in one and the other, must sit and agree and clarify these relations and set these relationships on sound foundations, thereby reducing the space and possibility for any cloudy actions that we could recognize in all of these current audit reports and then propose solutions to get out of this state. To propose solutions until it clears up, I think we'll just keep going round and round and we won't come to a solution, regardless of the conclusions and the efforts and all that it does and the Office for Audit. We will support the conclusions proposed by this Finance and Budget Commission. And when the prosecution is mentioned in these conclusions, I did not recognize that Parliament is now doing anything, any pressure, but simply something that we expect the prosecution to react to when it comes to such audit reports, nothing else. I don't see the role of Parliament in... but that's exactly what we expect from the prosecution, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6696	Thank you very much. Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6697	Well, I'd first look back on what Mr. Slobodan Šaraba said if he didn't know why Mr. Agović was here today. The audit report shows that the person responsible for the period during which the audit was carried out is up to 15. 9, was Mr. Agović's CEO. That's why I don't see why a man wouldn't sit here, because most of the time he was audited he was CEO. And we have Mr. Jakov Jurjević, who was by 21.5.2009 and Mr. Nermin Durmo from 22.5.2009, and this is the 2008 and 2007 report. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6698	For 2008.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6699	For 2008, it is, so I don't think his presence here should be troubled today, and I don't know why you did it. And the other thing is that I want to point out again what Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić was talking about, and this is a question of not setting up this corporation at the level of BiH, because the audit report, on page 9, clearly underlines that the absence and failure of a public corporation has led to a series of problems in functioning and BHRTV, and that this is one of the reasons that affects the negative business of BHRTV in the period covered by the audit report. And I would, as I see today the chairman of the Board of Directors of BHRTV, point out that it is very important that the Management Board also assumes part of its responsibility for the non-constitution of this corporation, because I do not see that it has been done so far. The Law on the Public TV System was adopted in November 2005, today is December 2009, we have not established this public corporation. You had a meeting of the Management Board in August 2009, you were required after the establishment of the constitutional session of the Committee to adopt the statutes of this corporation within 30 days and after the adoption of the statutes to register the corporation. This is all a joint task for both this board and the management of public broadcasters in BiH, but this has not been done until today. But what do we have on the scene? We have on stage that the Board of Directors of BHRTV is only dealing with the appointments and shifts of the Director General. We had a situation that the Director General had been removed, so it took a long trial, so you had a V.D. The official of the office you could not enter in the court register, so you asked before the Commission, which I chair, the question: How will this V.D. Director not registered in the court register of power to sign the financial reports of BHRTV? So you've had a judicial verdict by the Court of BiH, you've returned the director to work, he's been returned to the Court of Justice, and at the first session of that director, you've changed it again, and you're really putting Parliament in a position to deal with tv all the time and to keep discussing the new directors, the inability to sign financial reports by V.D. Directors who are not registered in the court register, and there is no liability of the Management Board. This corporation has not been established and we are today discussing this report and the only responsibility it seems to be in this report: The Management Board has found that the sole responsibility of this Director-General, Mr. Mehmed Agović, has been replaced and you think that you have solved the problem. I would like you to look back a little bit and give some of your consideration, Mrs Putica, to the state of BHRTV and to the obligations that the Management Board had and did not carry out, and you know that Parliament appoints four members of the Management Board. We know the conditions under the appointing law and the resolution of members of the Management Board, but we also know that there is a resolution of the Director General in your competences. And of course, that's your competence, which I don't dispute, but I'd like you to look back on those things a little bit and tell us why the board of directors didn't start this corporation. Because it is one of the key factors that led to this BHRTV business, which is highlighted in this auditor's report, on page 9. Thank you. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6700	Okay, thank you very much. Here, Mr. Slobodan Šaraba. It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6701	Mrs. Čolo, if Mr. Agović had done well, he would still be sitting there. Since he worked badly, the Management Board unanimously replaced him and selected another man, that's why he shouldn't sit there, because he was relieved yesterday and because he was chosen by another man. I don't see any reason, someone who's been resolved and who doesn't have any more touch points with television, to invite to the House sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6702	Mrs. Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6703	Well, believe me, I really can't believe your arguments. We had a dismissed director, Mr. Marić, who regularly attended the meetings of this committee when he was reviewing the report on BHRTV's business and was responsible for the period during which he was an authorised representative of the company he was running. So I don't know why you think a man can't sit here in this room today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6704	Okay. Is anyone else answering from the word delegates? Mr. Branko Zrno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6705	I just wanted to ask you a question about what we're discussing today. Is this a debate – I am so written and read – Report on the revision of the Public TV System of BiH. We've opened twenty parallel stories, now we need our story told by the director, and we need the board presidents to tell us their story. We have this report in front of us, please discuss this report. We have this report from the competent committee, here you go, discuss this report, and that's where we started, and that's where we should have stayed, end up here, and come to the conclusion of that report. It's a controversial point, and it's my fourth, fourth conclusion of this committee and on that... Let's not open the package now. If we open the package – we can open it, everything can be opened in Parliament why not – but then give them a theme session, let there be one topic of RTVBiH, and we'll discuss everything, and we'll invite them all, and we'll discuss everything. But this is today... a story, gentlemen. At the end of the year, we have an audit report for 2008. So it's our job to determine ourselves according to this report, and it's not a lot more to open. I ask you to stick to the agenda and stick to the materials offered, what we really need to discuss today. Nice. Thank you, 37.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6706	Okay, thank you very much. It's Mrs. Čolo again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6707	Well, I'd just read one sentence, so maybe Mr. Branko doesn't think we're sticking to the agenda. On page 9, this audit report, which is on the agenda today, states that 'the result of the lack of corporate and system discrepancies and unresolved relations between the three public broadcasters, which to some extent has a negative impact on the overall business of public services, unsettled relationship with the billing of RTV, unresolved relationship with marketing services, are all a product of the lack of a corporation at the state level.' I asked the chairman of the board of directors to tell me why this corporation wasn't formed, because it's part of the audit report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6708	Mr. Zno. Here you go again.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6709	Well, I'm not contradictory, Mrs. Čolo. So, you've established what it is in this report and we're pleading on that finding, we're going to raise our hand. And you're right, and we can look, I say, we can look for a special session or debate in the House with one agenda point: TVBH. I mean, it's the content of this report and it's constant here. We plead that out, and that's the problem and that remains the problem. And we can discuss it with each other when we ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6710	Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6711	This is just one little replica. If we do not adopt this conclusion that I have offered, then there is none, Parliament is nothing, it has not been determined accordingly. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm not talking about it if we don't adopt it then it's gone and Parliament hasn't even considered it. And it's fine in the auditor's report. Why this commission isn't... I don't know, that's one of the main causes of what we've been talking about all day, that's all. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6713	Okay. Anyone else answering from the delegates? He's not answering. Is there a need? Ah, Mr. Jović, go ahead. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6714	"Maybe I should and feel the need very briefly. If our commission has been considered and authorized to consider this report, in its logs number 2 offers to adopt the conclusion that it is asked by the Public TV Service of BiH to immediately approach the implementation of all the conclusions so far. So is there a better conclusion called the law, and in the law of the explicit is what they would ask me to conclude. And that's why I don't want to make a decision about the adoption of the law to force someone to apply that law to our conclusion. Here's what it's in, I don't see the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6715	Okay, no one's answering anymore. No, Drago Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6716	Chairman, I apologize to both you and everyone present. Here's to this, when it comes to this proposal of conclusion and addition, maybe I don't understand, and so I ask you to forgive me for commenting on this. There's a legal obligation to form this corporation, we all know it, and it's not done. But in a situation like this where relations between these public broadcasters are so uncleared, it means that the broadcasters, to go into the formation of this corporation with this kind of uncleared relationship, in my opinion, is just a more complicated situation. That's why I really think that here you just have to clearly set up relationships and clarify the relationship between these public broadcasters. It is mentioned here and the RTVRS, and there is a need to clarify relations, meaning when it comes to RTBiH, although I have not recognized anywhere near that problem that I recognized when it comes to the Croatian Federation of BiH and RTVBH. Because there's, in my opinion, a basic, basic problem. I say, maybe I don't understand these relationships enough to understand some other colleagues or people in this area, from this profession, but here at this level of knowledge of this problem, I think there's a basic and key problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6717	Okay, I mean, I don't know if we need to convince each other, we have a vote, so the vote will show.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6718	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6719	Here you go. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6720	I'm sorry, I have to, I'm sorry, but I have to say, so there's nothing left to clean up here, people have dug up everything alive, one auditor, another auditor, third auditor, everything knows what's due to who, there's nothing uncleared. There's no money missing, they're going to write off the value in the capital and the done deal, they're going to have less capital of the one they're bringing into this corporation and they're done talking, and it's known how they walk. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6721	Don't keep asking me, people, for ten times.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6722	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6723	All right, here you go. Here's Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6724	You know why this corporation isn't here? Because two chaoss to spill now into new chaos will also remain chaos. For 2008... RTVRS has a positive audit report, has a positive business. Do you think he'll agree to go in with two other broadcasters who have business chaos? Someone should've said business should've taken care of it. Because no one says business needs to be arranged, so let's start a service, and then we'll see what we can do. We're gonna bring all the problems into the joint house so we think it'll be better?- I'm sorry. It won't get any better. So, the prerequisite for anything is to resolve the situation and therefore cannot accept that conclusion, Mr Ibrahimpašić, only for that reason. You can't draw chaos from one and the other emitters now on the one that's positive and then we'll solve it. Do you think we'll really solve problems like that? I don't think that's the way to solve the problem, but that what the auditors have been repeating since 2005 to start solving it. He's not going to get rid of it by forming this corporation. He's going to start working in that institution.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6725	Ibrahimpasic, come in. There, I can't deny anyone...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6726	So, I think the chaos is gone, so many auditors have gone through all the books. You know what it is, so you say 5 million losses, 9 million losses, so you know what it is, it's on what items, it's all there. Losing is a normal thing, Bog will be asking him where and who he doesn't want. So there's no chaos, that's what I want to talk about. And this conclusion of mine would be binding at least, I know how those conclusions all go through, but I would oblige someone to at least do something, to respect that law, it's a legal obligation... 40
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6727	Okay. I would conclude the debate if no one had any more replicas or discussions. There isn't. Eventually, if Chief Auditor Milenko Šego thinks there's something else to say, perhaps by commenting on some parts of the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6728	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I welcome you all together. So here we are, at the request of this commission of this home, actually completed the 2008 BHRT revision. This is a very concise, concrete and quite good report, which lists practically all the problems observed during the revision and shown in this report. There's a fact that BHRT really can't solve all these problems on its own. We are in that very sense mentioning the existence of this corporation, since the most about it, I see, in a certain way, is slow down. So, one recommendation that we have made is on page 9, says: 'BHRT leadership should take action', so we have to write to that institution that we are reviewing, 'in finding appropriate solutions in collaboration with other institutions and levels of government and adaptation and compliance with the legal framework so that only business is organised and efficient in a rational way.' So, in a certain way, this corporation is practically by adopting all the recommendations of this report, and this conclusion has been practically adopted. Therefore, you assess whether it is necessary now to formulate such a conclusion, it practically implements the report itself. As for these other discussions of yours on this report, it's always mentioned here and it's a very important matter of responsibility. Therefore, audit reports do not make any sense unless there is a question of responsibility. More of these forms of responsibility, that's what we often talk about. Somehow, we're all very happy to slip away to that criminal responsibility, which is kind of the easiest thing to do. However, those other issues of responsibility, public responsibilities, political responsibilities, moral responsibilities, disciplinary responsibilities are somehow clouded, and then we often say that we do not have adequate regulations, but regulations exist. Therefore, the report is submitted to Parliament in order to initiate system institutions for one co-ordinated activity and to launch a responsibility issue. The report is public and is on the website. This home, as well as the House of Representatives, would not be the first time, he has concluded that the report, among other things, is being delivered to the BiH Prosecutor's Office for one seriousness, and this is not a criminal application. Therefore, the audit report is not a criminal application, but draws attention to the institutions of the system to eventually find those elements that they can associate or which are part of the criminal liability by reading these reports. In that sense, I think that the institutions of the system, like the BiH Prosecutor's Office, should have all the reports and they actually have reports, since the House of Representatives has already in this regard shared a decision on the other reports. Therefore, when it comes to budgetary users, they are already in the Prosecutor's Office and the Investigation Authorities and they are reading these reports find and find certain gaps and problems. That's it. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6729	Thank you very much. I think we've closed the debate. Now we should make a statement about this report. We're voting on the review report. There have been suggestions that around these conclusions, we have these different comments, so one by one I'd like to put to the vote, if that's okay with you. And we have an additional conclusion proposed by Mr Ibrahimpašić. Let's first talk about this conclusion that is like some kind of amendment supplement, Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6730	Let's adopt this report first.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6731	Let's adopt the review report first. Who's "for" to adopt the report? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained? There isn't. I understand we've adopted the review report. Now about this amendment, right, first.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6732	I guess it's about conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6733	Let's talk about conclusions, one by one. Okay. 'Find number one. The people's home is asking the BiH Public Radio Television Service to immediately approach the removal of the shortcomings according to the 2008 audit report. year.' Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? I find that we have adopted conclusion number one with the Audit Report. 'Find number two. The home of the people asks the Public Radio Television Service of BiH to immediately approach the implementation of all the previous conclusions of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH." Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. Also unanimous. 42' Conclusion 3. The people's home is asked by the Public Radio Television Service of BiH to submit within 30 days of the date of receipt of this conclusion to the Committee for Finance and Budget of the People's House a plan to remove recommendations from the 2008 audit report and in particular to the recommendations of the revision that BHRT is unable to implement." And this seems undeniable to me. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. I also find that this conclusion has been unanimously adopted. 'Find number four. The People's House believes that the 2008 report on the revision of the BiH Public Radio Television Service should be sent to the BiH Prosecutor's Office." Who Is For? One, two, three, four, five. ... Okay. Who Is “against ”? Niko. Who is “abstained ”? I find that this conclusion has not been reached because seven "abstained" votes, and thus this conclusion has not been given the necessary majority. We still have the conclusion of Mr Ibrahimpašić Adem, which reads: "The home of the people of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires all those responsible in public broadcasters to do everything to implement the Law on the Public TV System, which requires the establishment of a public corporation that would make all three broadcasters in BiH." Who is “for ” this conclusion? Sorry, vote again, I wasn't watching. One, two, three, four, five. Five votes are "yes". Who Is “against ”? Four votes "against". "Sustained" three. Neither did this conclusion get the necessary majority. I realize we've finished this 11th item of the agenda, in fact, on the 12th point of the agenda. We're going to 12. _________(?) 13. What's this? Audit report, okay. Look, we can agree to keep working or if you think we should take a break. Also, this budget was adopted for you to know, so we're going to have another session. Here, shall we move on? _________(?) We will. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6737	Here, finally, after two or three years, we finally got the review report from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. It is an institution that considered that the revision of the donations it receives should not be done by the Office for Auditing. And for two years there has been correspondence with various institutions in BiH in an effort to prevent the Office for Audit from making a report on how donor funds are being spent. So after all the forces... that we've been through on that trip, here's the final report on the review of the donations of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council is in front of us, and we're really aware of why there was so much opposition and why it was so controversial that the Office for Auditing, which audits the public sector, carried out a review of the donations received by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Because, no matter what the donations are, they're public funds and they have treatment and these are budget funds. The way in which this country's laws are handled must be, which they probably forgot at some point in the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. I must say, though, that the people who later came to this institution show, in fact,... the willingness to do not only much but they have done a lot of things, but it will be the subject of an audit of some of the following, and we are dealing with what the funds are donated to the Council for the period 2006-2008. The reserve report, six recommendations, a lot of those points that are mostly listed as a problem with procurement procedures and the first report of this institution in this domain. ... You have this report ahead of you, but I want to look at a few points that actually talk about what the state of donation in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is like. For example, in the case of chapters relating to an internal control system, let's say, a qualification that speaks of the lack of a quality internal control system or its consistent application may have a negative impact on the rational management and impact and business of institutions and on the dedicated spending of donor funds. Therefore, the revision clearly expresses and warns of a danger that can happen in such a way of working. 44 Second, when it comes to handling, he says: ‘It has been seen that they are not the most clearly defined bodies, or bodies of the Council that have the right and responsibility of participation and supervision of the project cycle. The grant funds have been implemented on the basis of a signed contract between the Council and the donor without the adopted Regulation on the implementation of the project funds.’ And regarding the project accounts, they say the Council of Ministers made a decision to grant a short-term loan of nearly 500,000 marks as short-term loans for the completion of certain projects within the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which is still being conducted as a short-term loan and has not yet been returned to the Council of Ministers, which was their obligation. In accounting records and transactions, the Office for Audit finds, imagine finding such a qualification when it says 'that through gifts there is a distribution of equipment to end-users, therefore to courts and prosecutors who are intended to obtain it through the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. After the end-user's gift has been made, the Council does not seek proof that the equipment is registered with the end-user, which may result in the fact that the purchase of the equipment is not recorded in either the High Court and the Prosecutor's Board or in the Court or the Prosecutor's Office for which the goods are intended.' I suggested, when they have a dilemma next time, they give us, when no one has to have any, no other institution to record that it came from a donation and that the equipment was received. Furthermore, an important recommendation for a revision related to the planning process is that, when it comes to the budget, after signing a contract with the donor, the Council does not make a review of budget expenditure by economic categories, does not make detailed plans for current expenditure or for capital investments, which results in the return of neutral funds to the donor, frequent restructuring, delay in project implementation, and employment without elaborated clear criteria and defined employment dynamics. So, few can believe we're talking about an institution called the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. When it comes to the value of the total of these projects, we have the information that the Council has approved, so the audit report shows that the Council has been approved 21 projects in the period 2006-2008, that a total donation of 18.6 million was made, that current expenditures are 15.3 million, capital investments 3.3, but now in the current expenditures which, I said earlier, 15 million per gross salary went to 5 million and contractual services 6.5 million. We stuck to it and thought about whether we had all the information when it came to it, because it seems to me that the current expenditures of 15 million are very high, or gross wages of 5 million, if that was the figure that, if it were analysed, would probably cause a lot of comments on the subject. Public procurement procedures, therefore once carried out under the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, for the second time in EU procedures – we do not understand why and on what basis and who decided when they will follow one or other criteria. But they have two items that are really striking and really need attention. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council carried out employee insurance, and it was approved by the project donors to spend 7,000 marks on behalf of the insurance costs of the Norwegian expert and therefore they also paid 49 employees, which is collective insurance, at the insurance house of the International Vanbreda from Belgium. Another item, which draws attention, and which is called third-floor construction works on the part of the judicial institution complex, that the contractor of the "Vision" company from 45 Sarajevo with which the contract of 979.000 was concluded; Annex of the contract was made 13. Two to the value of 245,000. The total costs were found to be 1.112,000 and 1,162,000 were paid. The difference between 50,000 marks, according to the responsible persons in the Council, concerns works on adaptation, equipment of the attic space that is not intended either by contract or contract annex. I asked 50,000 whose pocket it ended up in. So, based on the oral agreement of the Council members with this investor, the one he was building, he made the 50,000, so a trail is lost.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6738	Can we get to the bottom of this, because it's already taking longer than the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6739	So please, if that's not interesting, Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6740	But they got all the material, you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6741	Three years later, three years later, we got this report. If you're not interested in that, I can stop lying to you at all, just let me know. I thought so.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6742	But it lasts longer than 10 minutes, you know, you can take 10 minutes on the Rules of Procedure, but every time it lasts longer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6743	Well, here I am, bringing the end, I'm just the most important thing. Well, wait, a lot of people here aren't interested in anything at all, but I'm like the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6744	But we have to respect the Rules of Procedure, you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6745	Well, I respect that, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6746	You can say a lot in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6747	Well, I don't think I've been 10 minutes, so here's what we're gonna do in the future. I mean, it's extremely questionable why we're even discussing audit reports. It's obvious that many people don't care about it here. I'm like a man in charge of doing my part of the job and making 46 work properly done. I tried to bring this into line with my colleagues in the Commission, get support in the Commission, reach certain conclusions so that if this House is to be declared, if it can even say that he is not interested in it at all and to skip all the items relating to the revision at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6748	Okay, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Rančić, then Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6749	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6750	Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6751	... The High Court and Prosecutor's Council, in part of the donations, so audits are necessary. We are on the Commission and on the House, therefore not only this budget part but also the donor part, so that not only in this institution, but in all the institutions that are financed from the budget and, of course, we should support and take a position on certain proposals for conclusions. What surprises me is a large number of recommendations, remarks by the Audit Office, so generally. Of course, all institutions must abide by the law, but some have a particular responsibility against the law under which they are established because of their jurisdiction or because of their structure. So, everyone has to follow the law but especially these institutions, and believe me, it's a surprise that there are a lot of objections in one of these institutions in the sense of non-compliance with the rules in the area of spending money. When it comes to conclusions, I therefore support Conclusion number one. The Commission, with one, two, three, four, five, six..., how many there are, 12 indents, and also conclusion number three. What I am concerned about and what I could not accept are the conclusions of 2nd and 4th. The 3rd conclusion orders the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Council of Ministers, as well as the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to repay the amount of 489,000 KM which... hence the High Court and Prosecutor's Council received from our Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6752	Like a loan?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6753	So, it was done as a loan, of course we know, it says, in 2007, and if it had to and could be returned it should have been done in 2007, because then Budget was completed, Report 47 on the execution of Budget adopted, etc. or in 2008 in Budget, for that institution, predict this amount so that they can return it. So, we cannot accept that we now say as a home: The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council will return cca 500,000 marks to the Council of Ministers, and when we open this budget for 2010, you will see that there is certainly no such amount in that budget. So how do we commit them, at the expense of their current business, pay? In the name of what?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6754	Donation, man!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6755	Donations must be spent on what this donation is made for.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6756	Will it be a donation? Will they have a donation in 2010? Is that supposed to be, then? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, if they do. So, the thing has to be precise, or they have the money to pay it back, and where they're gonna get it back, if they don't, so we can't go to their harm. The fourth conclusion that speaks of the reference to this report, as well as earlier, to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, so in principle I don't want anyone to be protected or protected for a crime, but I must, in order to vote for something to go to the prosecution, I would have to know that there are elements of the crime. Which one? And then I'll vote for everyone to go to the D.A.'s office. So I need to know if there are any elements of the crime to raise my hand immediately for every report. But if I don't see it, and it's not there, then it's question why we send it when we know on this committee that the review itself can send it to the D.A.'s office when they estimate that there are criminal elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6758	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Drago Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6759	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A little while ago, we had an audit report that we discussed in the way we discussed, but here it came down and it happened that we had a review report again and an example for an institution where persistent insistence on the Commission and the House produced fruit. And Ponović, what Mrs Dušanka Majkić said -- so far we have witnessed that there has been no 48 revision that has any insight into this part of the funds in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in previous years. The audit results confirmed that we were right and that there were reasons and needs for reviewing donor funds in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. When we debated the Commission and were representatives of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, it is positive, in my opinion, because we were informed by the representatives that they mainly or in large part removed the recommendations that the revision... This is another confirmation of what I just said and one positive example of this kind of insistence on both the Commission and the House, which means what we're looking for. Of all the institutions, as Mr. Rančić said, we ask and expect, every time we discuss their audit reports, to behave within the framework of the law. We especially expect this from judicial institutions, including the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. We expect prosecutors and courts to sanction those who do not comply with the regulations, as the main auditor said, and from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to respond to prosecutors and courts... that is to say, individuals who do not do work within their jurisdiction, because it is their legal obligation and I will make a little joke like this when it comes to this combination. A very interesting relationship, or rather, to use this term, in my opinion, and the combination – High Court and Prosecutorial Council, prosecution and courts. Taking into account their legal obligations, here we go from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, it is their legal obligation to monitor the work of prosecutors and courts. The legal obligation is for prosecutors and courts to respond to all those institutions that do not apply and enforce regulations... and laws. Therefore, the prosecution's obligation is to respond to everyone, regardless of who this is, and to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. And then, on the other hand, we have a legal obligation of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to respond to the same institutions that should have responded to them if they did not work legally, so they did not apply the law. A very interesting combination that is so in a circle that is very difficult, in my opinion, to clarify, but here's how it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6760	Thank you very much. Who's on the phone? If no one answers, Adem Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6761	Here, just one detail, so never before in the audit report have we had no donation, because it was opposed by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Now there are no more such resistances and in the future in every audit report we will have within the audit report and donations. So, that battle was won, to put it that way, and what we're talking about is clanish snow. I don't think we need to bother too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6762	Okay. If there's no one else. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6763	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6764	Okay, here you go, that's when you're here. Let's just introduce ourselves, just so we know.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6765	Dear Presidency and Chairman, distinguished delegates, esteemed guests, I warmly welcome you all. I am Muhamed Tulumović, director of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council Secretariat. I thank you for all these discussions and for the observed observations related to this report, i.e. the weaknesses observed by the review, but I appreciate that it should be mentioned and means the important thing, the essential part, the final opinion of this report, which says in the first part that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, when it comes to donations, was therefore working in the financial business, there was no arbitrary spending of funds and is now being said which weaknesses were seen. So that's decadent in the conclusions in this report. However, I have already heard here and from the chairman and from some delegates, and I want to confirm, and that can be said and the revision, we are in this year, so from the beginning of the year, I've been performing the position of directors since the new year, we've made a maximum effort in all fields to build internal controls, communications and many other things, all of the things that the audit has pointed out, we're removing it. We have now implemented more than 70% of the recommendations, meaning grenade audits, and we are doing parallel implementation of recommendations for the revision of the Council's domestic budget. So we're maximumly committed, and here's what confirms the latest preliminary revision of the domestic budget and donations, is now being done parallelly, so at the same time, and that's going to be the future. Of course, if there were no objections or to a good degree, the situation was improved. When it comes to loans, I would just like, if you'll excuse me, these questions that the chairman Majkićka mentioned, as far as the loan is concerned, I have here the head of the Finance Administration Department involved in the activities related to the resolution of the issue. A commission has been formed, so it has the latest information since last week, so, if you'll allow, in a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6766	Don't, we'll go far then.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6767	Anyway, here I am finalizing, so we're maximumly committed to things working, to be good, and I hope, I'm convinced, if not this one, at least next year we won't have the opportunity to survive us like this. Thank you. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6768	Okay, thank you, too. We're now approaching the vote on the report. Who is "for" to adopt the Commission's Financial and Budget Report? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I agree that we adopted the Commission's Finance and Budget Report. Now, let's get to the bottom of this. Conclusion number one.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6769	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6770	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6771	So that was also at last session. The conclusions are an integral part of this report. So, I don't see...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6772	But he's got different opinions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6773	a separate vote on this report and conclusions. I have a document here. It's the review report, with a proposal for conclusions. It's a document. The moment we adopted the report, we adopted the conclusions. There's no vote on conclusions. So, we adopted the report and then we re-vote the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6774	Mr. Šarab, you see, we adopt the review report, you know, and then we adopt the conclusions of our team. That's two different things.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6775	We can adopt them in the package along with this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6776	We can, but if there are different attitudes, then we can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6777	What are the different attitudes? 51
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6778	Mr. Chairman, I disagree. Therefore, the Commission has established its report and the component of that report is the conclusions. That's one whole. I'd take it if I had two papers here and two papers. One is this report, and the other is a proposal for conclusions. So we have a document here. So, we adopt the report, by adopting the report, we also adopted the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6779	Mr. Zrna, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6780	Just Slobodan. Free, sorry, absolutely disagree. Here are pages 3: 'The Committee for Finance and Budget of the People's House has concluded that this report can be accepted and proposes to the House of Nations its adoption. Afterwards, the Committee for Finance and the Budget of the People's House after an extensive debate on the report on the audit of donations made to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH in the period 2002-2008. The years have come to the following conclusions. The conclusions were made after accepting this report.../microphone off/...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6781	Okay, so we're about that. Mr. Šarab, you want more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6782	So, esteemed colleague Zrno, it's nothing controversial, but it's all in this one document. We don't need to vote twice here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6783	All right, look, here's what we've adopted. We're going by the book now. Please, who's "for" Conclusion No.1? Is there anyone “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. I figure we did it. That's what we're gonna do, Slobodan, for everyone in the future, it's not just about this. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Who is "for" this conclusion: "The people's home asks the Council of Ministers for the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury to return funds." Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. 52 I'm finding that too. Conclusion number three. "The people's home is asking the BiH Institutions Audit Office to carry out a regular review of donations with the revision and financial operations of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH." Who's "for"? And under 4. 'The People's House considers the report on the review of the donations made by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in 2006-2008. the year should be referred to the BiH Prosecutor's Office.' Who Is For? That's five, six. How much? Please, I'm re-assessing conclusion number four. Who Is For? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Who Is “against ”? No Niko „Uzdržan”? Okay. The conclusion has been adopted, and we can also determine. Therefore, when some different interpretations, opinions and discussions arise about the conclusions, I think we still need to separate and vote individually. That's why.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6784	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6785	Well, there was one case, so please. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2008 with Opinion of the BiH Institutions Audit Office Here we have several of these reports with positive and different opinions. You have received an audit report from the Office on the audit of the institutions. You also received a report from the committee in charge. The Commission unanimously accepted the 59th report on the revision of BiH institutions, which was formed by the Institutions' Audit Office, and proposes to the House of Peoples their adoption and adoption of the proposed conclusions. I give my first word to the chairman of the Commission, Dušanki Majkić, and then later to the Director of the Audit Office. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6787	As the debate on the audit reports goes on, I am becoming less and less ambitious to realize that one huge job that the Commission has invested for many hours and we have had four sessions or five, four sessions that have been held and devoted to the audit reports, and perhaps it doesn't matter what we thought. But here, I made this report... you got, you saw that it included 59 institutions, that 28 institutions got a positive opinion, that the institutions that got an opinion with a reserve 31, that the largest number of observations that the audit put on weaknesses in budget planning, budget control, organisation structure, public procurement regulations, internal controls, etc. You have shown here 14 institutions for which the Office of Audit drew attention that they received more than one qualification in 2008 and you finally have a proposal to accept reports and conclusions. The conclusions are generated as follows. The conclusion 1 follows extensive material, and Conclusion 1 reads: 'The people's House adopts individual conclusions of the Commission for Finance and the budget of the People's House on the revised audit reports for 2008, Annex 1.' Therefore, it is a major contribution that contains individual reports for all institutions that have dealt with qualifications. The second is Annex 2: 'The People's House adopts a conclusion that praises institutions that have received a positive opinion on Annex 2.' This is the 28 institutions listed in Annex 2. In Annex 3. Home to the people, as the 3rd conclusion: 'The People's House adopts the summary conclusions of the Commission on Finance and the budget of the People's House on the revised audit reports for 2008 which received an opinion with the reserve'. Annex 3, so it contains individual summary conclusions that say what to do or what to do to the Council of Ministers, and here you have four groups of these summary conclusions. And the next conclusion is four. 'The People's House adopts a conclusion for institutions that are reducing the 2010 budget, Annex 4.' And here you can see that these are institutions that have had more than one audit qualification for 2007 and 2008. The proposal is to reduce their budget, on exactly certain items most interesting to them, which are items related to the cost of representation, fuel costs and costs of getting a vehicle. Here, you have an individual for each institution that's listed here. Here, I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6788	Okay, thank you very much. I give my word to the Director of the Audit Office, Mr. Šega. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6789	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, after what Mrs Dušanka Majkić said and after what you've already got on your benches written for 59 institutions, and I hope you have this brief report, a shortened book for all 59 institutions, I have no intention of talking for a long time, I would just like to point out that, as every year, we are both on time and in accordance with the Audit Act, in accordance with the Law on the Financing of Institutions and in accordance with other regulations, and we have carried out and completed a revision for all budget users. So, there were 59 of them, where there were 28 positive opinions in total, so there are no significant failures and mistakes in these 28 institutions; 31 institutions have fewer or more failures, errors, non-compliance with the law, and there is an opinion with a qualification, i.e. an opinion with a reserve. What may be significant is that for these 28 institutions, mostly smaller institutions, we have only one ministry that is the Ministry of Justice, these are mostly government agencies, various commissions, etc., only 20.5% of the total budget of BiH institutions, and these 31 institutions are being waste about 79.5% of the budget. So the total amount of the budget still contains certain gaps, shortcomings and we have given quite a number of recommendations, they are all sublimed in our reports. The percentage of implementation of these recommendations has a slight positive trend of growth, meaning implementation, but it is still not satisfactory. Some 55% of our recommendations are implemented, and in the EU and worldwide, the percentage is around 95%. Therefore, we still need to work hard to implement these recommendations. So, both here and in recent discussions, reports are delivered with the aim of raising certain issues of responsibility, overcoming certain problems, and it is certain that there is already something in this field that seems to be done thanks to the procedures adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly on the reception and review of these reports. So it would be necessary to continue to pursue... various issues of responsibility, because until the question of responsibility is raised, it can really remain just a dead letter on paper. I hope that in this sense you will adopt these reports with the aim of implementing our recommendations and launching various forms of responsibility, including criminal ones at the end. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6790	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Here, there's Zoran Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6791	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't talk for long about this agenda point, I just wanted to remind this home of this conclusion that the House of Representatives held at its meeting on 24 November brought 55 of this issue. He says: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is launching an initiative and calls on the House of Peoples to form an Interresor Working Group together with the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions and the Council of Ministers to prepare for amending laws to ensure the strengthening of financial discipline and rule of law, in line with the recommendations of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions and the Commission for Finance and the Budget of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH.' So, when deciding on this item of the agenda, let us also remember this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6792	Thank you very much. Who's on the phone? If no one's answering, I'm closing the argument. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6793	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6794	Here you go, Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6795	I just have a question. I understand that the Committee applied in a way that one who has more than one, I would say, the items of the problem, that they were proposed by the Committee for a certain amount of reduction in the 2010 budget. However, when looked at, 14 is the institution that is listed to have more than one, and for the reduction is proposed 11. I don't know what's right: 11 or 14.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6796	Should I answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6797	Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6798	If you, Mr. Jović, would listen to what I'm saying, then you'd have that answer, I made that clear. So here it writes fine, and it says it on paper that you keep in front of you, Annex 4 to the top. The last sentence before the list: 'Institutions reducing the budget in those paragraphs are those institutions that had more than one audit qualification in 2007 and 2008.' So that's the criterion we took. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6799	"May I?" 56
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6800	Here, here, let me get this straight. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6801	"I follow very well and closely, and I don't need that tone and I have the right and I don't hear it, and I have the right and I ask, don't be angry. It's your obligation to tell me as colleagues here and when I don't hear you say twice if I'm looking for it and thank you for that, for your obligation. And the second thing I'd like to say is, we're adopting for 2008, right, this review report, not for 2007, and they've been chosen, I'm talking about the criteria -- which you've been running to be such a proposal. It's illogical that we, we adopt in 2008, we've caught a punishment done by a part of those in 2007. It's a little illogical to me, and that's why I asked. I get what the esteemed president said, but I don't get it, I hear it all well, I see it all well, I read it all well, but it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6802	Suggest, brother. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6803	: My proposal, if you want to punish, and I think it's punishment, in 2008, we consider 14 institutions to be under the same arch. If it's not going to be 14, it doesn't have to be that either. It's justice and justice.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6804	Okay. If no one ever answers their word again, then we approach the vote. There are more votes here. First, we are now voting on the individual conclusions proposed by the committee in charge, we are voting first on this report by all these institutions, similar to before. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? One voice “abstained. ” Then, let's vote on individual conclusions, this as Mrs. Majkić suggested, Annex 1. Do you need me to read these conclusions, you have it in front of you. Should we vote who's in favour? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the conclusions of Annex 1. We go to the conclusions of Annex 2. Who is “for ” these conclusions? 57
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6805	Read this conclusion number two, just this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6806	Do they have conclusions ahead of them...?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6807	They do. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. I find these conclusions have passed, too. I shall then put the conclusions in Annex 3 to the vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. I find that the conclusions of Annex 3 have been adopted. We now have Annex 4 to Annex 4. Who is “for ” these conclusions?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6808	Here, there's... a proposal to supplement for these three...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6809	Then we'll talk about the proposal later. Who is “for ” to see? Is there anyone “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. I find that all these conclusions have been adopted. We have a proposal from Mr. Jović. It doesn't make sense now, does it? That's right. Then you're giving up, aren't you? IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6810	No microphone turned off
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6811	Okay, thank you very much. We move to the next item of the agenda, which is point 15. 58 Ad. 15. Proposal for the appointment of Mirsad Salkić, a graduate electrical engineer, as a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, a proposal from the Council of Ministers of BiH You've received this proposal. The committee in charge considered this proposal and delivered its opinion. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Master Alma Čolo. Here you go, Alma.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6813	Well, here, I'll just take a minute. You've got your opinion. The law on transmission, regulator and operator of the electricity system in BiH, members of the State Electricity Commission are proposed by entity parliaments. Those proposals go to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers accepted this proposal from the Federation Parliament and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly could accept or reject the proposal. The Commission proposed unanimously, with one "abstained" vote,... The people's home to accept this proposal means that Parliament of the Federation and the Council of Ministers should be appointed from the Federation to the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity by Mr Mirsad Salkić, a graduate electrical engineer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6814	Okay, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers their word, I'll put it to a vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? With one "sustained" vote, I find that Mr Mirsad Salkić was appointed a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from the Federation of BiH. Moving to the 16th point of the agenda: Ad. 16. Initiative for the establishment of an investigative committee of the People's House for Determination of Circumstances concerning the issue of CEMT licences for 2009 to carriers in BiH – Proposer: delegate Dušanka Majkić You have received an initiative delivered by delegate Dušanka Majkić. I give my word to the motion of the Initiative, Mrs. Majkić. Here you go. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6816	I said everything in the last session. So, the House of Representatives is already doing a lot of hearings, and the investigative committee is left to either form or not: if we don't form, they will end; if we form, they will work two committees together and then remain to make a decision in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6817	Thank you very much. You've also received a written submission from Mrs. Majkić. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6818	Well, so I don't want to prejudge at all whether or not there is work for this investigative committee, but here, in a certain way in the House of Representatives there is a formed commission and they are working and how this is proposed in paragraph 3 that both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly work together; if we say so we join our colleagues there to that team, because I don't see the sense that one home or another works separately so that there are different points, different conclusions or different findings. It's the same thing, so I suggest, if we go into it, that our colleagues we choose join our colleagues from the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6819	Okay. Who's on the phone? Mr. Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6820	I will immediately say that I am not against the formation of this commission, although at the time, I suppose, to which this initiative refers, I was a minister. On the other hand, I will not raise my hand, because I would thus accept the argument that Mrs. Majkić spoke of at the last session, and today she called for her report. But here, if it can mean some of my suggestions, I suggest to my colleagues that we read for, to be seen for the formation of that commission. That commission in the House of Representatives has moved away from work, as far as I know, and I think it would be difficult to join that commission, since it would be difficult to monitor everything they have brought out so far, and, on the other hand, starting from the beginning, it would be too much trouble, I think, for the members of the committee and also for the institutions that report, so I simply mention that to make the most rational decision. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6821	Okay, thank you very much. 60 Is anyone else answering for word? If he's not answering, I understand Mr. Rančić here is Mr. Ljubić, and we're all here to form this commission, just to see how it works. I understood Rančić in the sense that this committee of ours, which would possibly have three members, would join the House of Representatives Commission. I mean, that makes sense to me that now twice people don't report to one commission, another commission, or come with different reports. These can get acquainted with what has been done and connected so far, maybe that's the best way to do it. I'd ask clubs to tell who's proposing who on that committee. The Serbian People's Club, let's see.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6822	Initiative!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6823	All right, all right. Who's "for" to accept this initiative first, and then we'll talk about the composition of the task force? Is there anyone “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. I find that we unanimously accepted the initiative. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] One voice "maintained", good. Let's see who will be members of this committee from the Serbian People's Delegates Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6825	Mrs. Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6826	Mrs. Dušanka Majkić. From the order of the Croatian people?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6827	I would suggest Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6828	Mr. Božo Ljubić. There you go, Božo. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6829	I would ask, so if there will be reservations, and I'm afraid they may be here to exclude me, and I would ask, so if Mr. Zrno can do it as a member of the commission, otherwise, to accept; if not, then Božo Rajić can, but here I might ask Mr. Zrn first.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6830	Thank you, Mr. Ljubić. I know, I suggested it on purpose because Mr. Ljubić is not in conflict with any interest. He's a Parliamentarian today, and that job can work.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6831	He was a minister at the time, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6832	It doesn't matter what the minister was, he's not a minister today. Nothing, I suggest Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6833	Božo Rajić, okay. The Bošnjak Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6834	Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6835	Adem Ibrahimpašić, Božo Rajić and Mrs Majkić. Can we adopt this proposal? Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. I find that we unanimously appointed a group to join the same committee in the House of Representatives. We have a point 17. Ad. 17. Hazim Rančić's initiative tasked by the BiH Council of Ministers to draw up draft law on defence proceedings in the exercise of defence function 62 You have received the initiative delivered by delegate Hazim Rančić. I'm giving the word to the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6837	Thank you very much. So, here, I'll do it very briefly. You've also read my initiative. In fact, the BiH Law on the Defence of BiH stipulates that BiH's Rules of Procedure regulates the conduct of the body in proceedings before courts and other institutions until the appropriate law is passed to which the issues will be settled. Since seven years have passed since the adoption of that law, which was established by the BiH Attorney's Office, and no law has been passed under which they will proceed rather than serve their sublegal act, I think it is high time that the Council of Ministers made a proposal for this law and referred it to the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6838	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no one here. I'm putting it to a vote. Who is "for" the initiative? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? I understand Mr. Rancic's initiative has been accepted. We're going to the 18th point of the agenda, that's Ad. 18. Information on the state of play regarding the untimely sending of convicted persons to the maintenance of fines due to insufficient capacity of prison institutions and security measures, applicant: BiH Justice Ministry, delivered by the Constitutional Commission to the People's House You have received information as well as the Constitutional Commission Act on Information. The Commission proposes to the House of Peoples to consider the Information and to take it into account. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go. 63 IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6840	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6841	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6842	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we have one really quality information in front of us. I'd just like to ask one question to one of the promoters, or one of the Ministry's representatives, if he's here, I don't know. So, for a long time, more than two years, the process of concluding an agreement that requires a special institution in BiH to implement the psychiatric treatment measures, so this procedure was launched in 2007, a very, very slow process for the conclusion of this agreement, as a donation from the Swiss Confederation is waiting for the conclusion of this agreement. I would just ask at what stage is this, given this donation and since the very, very long time that has passed since the moment of the initiative and until the moment of the conclusion of the agreement which, unfortunately, has not yet happened?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6843	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If he's not answering, then he could give a word to the transporter of this information to answer this question. The rest is clear enough, I don't think we should explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6844	Let me, above all, welcome the delegates of the House of Nations as well as everyone present at this session. I can point out that the first initiative launched in 2007 did not bear fruit because of the way in which the establishment of that institution was regulated so that the Council of Ministers reached a new conclusion in June 2008 that it has restarted the initiative to form an agreement that would allow the enforcement of the security measures imposed by the court, all BiH courts in criminal proceedings. I can point out to you that the BiH Ministry of Justice has been designated as the body to co-ordinate and there have been about 10 ministries involved in this negotiation. I can point out that this agreement was made, that it was accepted by all the participants involved in its formation. That he was, meanwhile, signed by the president of the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Republic of RS, the government of the Federation and the government of the Brcko District and the director of the clinic center of eastern Sarajevo. Meanwhile, we have undertaken technical activities in the publication of this agreement, so 64 that in November 2009, this agreement was also published in "The Official Messenger of BiH" and "The Official Journal of the Federation of BiH" and in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" and in "The Official Messenger of the Brcko District". So this agreement is legally valid. He took legal action and now there are no more obstacles. In this act, the funds of the Swiss donor have become operational and, as I say, the earlier decision of the Council of Ministers in the order of the National Coordinator has been determined by the Council of Ministers, which, I say, is implementing these 2,800,000 Swiss francs for adaptation and reconstruction of the upcoming facility. What we have is information that the project is finished and that now the national coordinator is taking the calls for the amount, is that, it will be most likely, an international tender so that, according to some dynamics, we hope that perhaps in September of next year, this adaptation and reconstruction could be completed, and perhaps already in 2010 that the facility could be put into operation. I would just like to point out that this BiH... implements the recommendation of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture, that it implements a recommendation by the Council of Europe, as well as a request from the European Commission, so I think this will be an important step in BiH, both for the visa regime and for future European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6845	Okay, thank you very much. Thank you Mustafa Bisić, assistant minister, since he did not introduce himself at first. Moving to the 19th point of the agenda... In fact, we have to vote, we have to take it to the knowledge, I'm in a bit of a hurry, I'm sorry. I'm putting the first vote of information to be taken to the knowledge. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. Unanimity. Mr. Šarab, are you a "yes" too?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6846	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6847	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6848	It is necessary to accept the conclusions at the end of this information.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6849	And we have conclusions. 65 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6850	But the whole information with conclusions has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6851	We must conclude that the conclusions have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6852	Okay. I find that we have accepted information and conclusions. Moving to the 19th point of the agenda: Ad.19. Report on SIPA's work for January - September 2009 and statements on certain issues, with opinions and proposals from the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH You have received a report on the work as well as the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. The Commission has decided to deliver these acts together with the Opinion and the Opinion of the Conclusions proposal to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for consideration. The SIPA Work Report for January – in September, it discusses at today's session that is under way. I give my word to the chairman of the Joint Commission, Mr. Branko Zrn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6854	Thank you very much, Chairman. It is briefly said here, the only thing that we could agree on at the Committee, and unanimously, is the conclusion that we are not satisfied with this report and the clarification that is the result of the situation in SIPA, and therefore we are also receiving knowledge and recommending or proposing to the House that the SIPA report be forwarded to the relevant competent authority, which, according to its Rules of Procedure, is the Independent Committee. So this is what we're putting into office the independent police body that we've had here after a long time to start dealing with the problems that are why it's founded. So much for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6855	Okay. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Rančić, right? Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6856	Thank you very much, Your Honor. 66 Dear colleagues and colleagues, here, means an esteemed colleague... the President of the Defence and Security Commission has expressed the position of our Joint Commission, which is responsible, among other things, and to monitor the legality of the work of this important agency we call SIPA or the State Agency for Investigation and Protection. So this report, which we have received and a statement, all as MPs and members of this committee, is nine months old and has been initiated by certain events within the SIPA in the past few months, especially by the Director of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, Mr Mirko Lujić. The members of this commission also visited the State Agency for Investigation and Protection and during this visit (unfortunately, I was not for certain reasons, but most of the members of this Commission were) by the director was found to be a good condition, how well it works, how they have certain problems in full, financing, building a building, etc., but one word said that the institution is doing well, and we know its jurisdiction and importance of the existence of the institution. After that, certain applications were submitted. So, perhaps 15-20 days after this commission's visit, the director argued in his media statements and before the Council of Ministers that everything was completely different, that something was wrong, that there were parallelisms, and then there were certain appointments and certain moves by the respected director of SIPA, which seems to me to interfere with the work of this agency and focus light on this agency in another sense. Namely, they, they know why the law was founded, and should comply with the law to carry out their work, and not be the subject of attention because of the deployment of workers, and illegal, because of building a building, and the media focus on it, as well as the use of telecom operators services. Here, I will briefly, given both the Rules of Procedure and everything, so I cannot, in short time, be able to, when considering one item of the agenda, enter into a detailed, serious analysis, but let me say a few sentences when it comes to illegal deployment. So, in addition to this documentation we received, I asked as a delegate for documentation on the deployment of Mr Lukač and Mr Hrgić, as well as the second-degree act of the competent authority and, no doubt, found that both solutions on the deployment of Mr Lukač and Mr Hrgić were illegal. Both such solutions and such deployments, Director Lujić broke the Law on the Agency for Investigation and Protection, violated and did not apply the Law on Police Officers, violated the Law on Administrative Procedure, and violated the Regulation on the internal deployment of police officers. So, when I say this, I responsibly state this, so I say: the amendments and amendments to the SIPA Act, in SIPA, as the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, there is absolutely no department for the protection of persons and objects. So, according to this law that we adopted, this home and the House of Representatives, there is no organisational unit to protect objects and personalities. There is the conduct of these tasks, in the transitional provisions yes, but the director should have settled it in a way to harmonise his, conditionally his, the Rules of Procedure on the Organisation and Systematization of SIPA within 60 days of the adoption of the law which would prescribe how these tasks would be done, while these operations and that organisational part, both people and all, do not go to the jurisdiction of the Police Structure Coordination Directorate, according to the law that Parliament has adopted again. So the director allowed himself the luxury of deploying people into an organisational unit that doesn't exist under the law. Because, according to the SIPA Act and under the Law on the Police Structure Coordination Directorate 67, this job should also be taken over by the Organizational Unit – the Police Body Coordination Directorate. The deployment of police officers and Lukač and Hrgić performed the deployment of police officers in an organisational section that does not exist and at jobs that do not exist under the Law on the Agency for Investigation and Protection. When it comes to the Law on Police Officers, when you look at these solutions, you will see that these laws are not at all called upon as a legal basis for resolving the status issues of police officers. It's a law on the basis of which the status issues of all police officers are being addressed at the state level. Mr. Director, when adopting these solutions, absolutely did not apply the Law on Police Officers, and he had to do so exclusively in accordance with this law, because this law refers to the procedure of deployment, including internal relocation, internal advertising, as external advertising as the means of deployment. It is indisputable that Director Lujić is authorised under the law to deploy police officers, but he must do so in accordance with the laws and respect the procedure, not arbitraryly and in violation of the laws. So he has the authority, but he has to do it in accordance with the law, not on his own. The moment Mr. Lukač expired, so 9. Nine. In 2009, Mr Lujić could internally move Mr Lukač: either to this existing workplace in the Criminal and Investigation Department or to one of the three other vacant jobs. So, at the moment of the term of office, what does the director do? Unlawfully, yes, it replaces Hrgić, Mr. Hrgić, from where he was located and brings him to the Criminal and Investigation Department and creates an artificially fictitious job in an organisational department that does not exist there under the law. That the intention is obvious, proves the following facts. At the moment of the term of office of Mr. Lukač (of course I do not want at all about where he will be deployed, it is the right of the director, but it must be by law) there are three vacant jobs in SIPA. First, he's head of the War Crimes Center, in the same rank, so the Chief Inspector. And imagine, this job has been vacant since 31. 12. 2006. So, in three years' time, the director has a job in the act, in the rank of assistant chief inspector, and he won't fill that job. Why? So that he may be able to interfere, that he may have an perpetrator, that he may be able to manage something, that he may have unquality work in it. The second job that was completed was the Chief of Financial Intelligence, which was completed from 1. 4. 2008 So for a year and a half, the job and the director won't legally fill that job. The third place to be celebrated is Chief of the Witness Protection Department. It's all about jobs in an act these police officers have. So, you see, there are three jobs, three years are vacant, and the director is running a staff policy so he doesn't want to fill these places. I also said this on this commission: after we've said all this on the Commission, it seems to me that, in the papers or somewhere internally, I've found out that after all this, the director has called some contests to complete and on the same day as the term of office of the assistant director for the Criminal and Investigation Department, he's deploying it to an organisational department that doesn't exist, which doesn't exist under the SIPA Act within the SIPA. 68 Also, regarding the Law on Administrative Procedure, the examination of documents and the declaration of the officers deployed shows that the parties did not have the right to declare themselves at all and that he was obliged under the Law on Administrative Procedure. So it is undeniable that infringements of these laws have been made, that illegal deployments have been carried out, i.e. better said shifts and, probably, can therefore certainly be brought about by submitting certain reports to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. This isn't, I'm not going to talk about this anymore, and I've been talking about this committee,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6857	Time to take care of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6858	Here, I can do two or three more sentences, Chairman. So, both from the media and through the auditors' reports, we are aware that there has been building a building for the needs of SIPA for a long time, that it is quite money, and of course, for every institution, space, equipment, etc., and personnel, but what is being disputed is why it does not end in time, why we do not have that information and whether it is true that there is a multimillion-dollar collection of the building. And third thing, using telecom operator services. We have misinformation that a Mr. Director without a tender has voluntarily introduced to a small door that all operatives, all SIPA employees can use mobile phone services from only one operator, M:body, and for the others he said: if you do not want to, will not pay SIPA for those official phones. I'd like these things checked out, if this is true, if it's illegally done and without a tender. That's it, thank you very much. And of course, I support this proposal, as I have also suggested on this committee, that since it is about the director's moves, and that we have a body responsible for monitoring the legality of the work of the heads and deputy chiefs of police bodies in BiH, it is about the Independent Committee, that we refer all of this to the Independent Committee to look at all this situation and take action from its jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6859	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6860	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be much shorter than my esteemed colleague Rančić, and I'd discuss more if there was a director of this agency. Unfortunately, he's not in this session either, as he was not in the Joint Commission session. I believe that this is a kind of inaccuracy since it was to be present both at this committee's session and at today's session, given that he signed this report and that he should have answered many of the questions that were asked to him 15-69 days ago, when this was all discussed on the Defence and Security Commission, as he should today answer some of the questions that would have been asked him through our debate. So, I don't want to repeat a lot of what I said at the Joint Commission session, and then I said that I was dissatisfied with the Agency and its work and relations with the Agency. Basically, we requested this report after all the events that occurred at this State Agency after Mr. Lukač's shift. I have absolutely no intention of defending Mr. Lukač after all that's happened in all this story about the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, I am only sorry for Mr. Jovičić, who, in my opinion, has been quite healthy by OHR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6861	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6862	Well, I'd just like one brief review, given that from this final consideration, which is on page 15. The information reads 'that the overall results are appropriate to the level of administrative, personnel and material technical capacities achieved and that SIPA is a strong and professional police agency, trained to implement the law and to respond to the requirements in the performance of the tasks and tasks of its authority imposed in the future'. I, reading this information, didn't really come to the conclusion that SIPA is at this level of professionalism, as this report claims, because from the very information, many of us read information about the work of police bodies in this country, from the lowest to the highest level, and I don't think these reports are written like this. Here, for example. On page 3, it says that 'in this period SIPA has worked on 4.135 items and completed work on 2.234 items or 54.02, and the work on others is continued and a number is in the final phase of realization'. Why am I saying this? Well, I mean, when they say they've been working on 4,135 objects and they've finished more than half, that they should have stood there as a result of that work on half of those items. Did they submit reports to the D.A.'s office on criminal offences, whether SIPA found in certain cases that there was no reasonable doubt that a criminal offence had been committed, whether in certain cases it had found that unfounded claims or there had to be an explanation, meaning what they did in two thousand and some cases. It's not easy to end two thousand investigations in the reporting period. I don't know that it's possible to implement it so effectively. Especially the language written, and this is my last sentence, the language written does not match the language spoken in police structures. Here he says, on the last page: "Good results have been achieved to improve the operational functions and its organisational units that have successfully completed the cases of work arising from the prosecution's investigation into BiH or its own discovery of criminal offences in organised crime." I've never heard anyone say their own discovery work. It's said work to detect crimes and perpetrators of crimes. It's the language of the profession. It's like people who didn't work in the police and, believe me, I question the credibility of people who work on very important jobs in this very important institution. Thank you. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6863	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić's answering for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6864	First of all, I want to say that I'm sorry Mr. Lukač isn't here because there are a lot of accusations, and it's really scary, spoken without the possibility of knowing whether or not he is. Just because someone's accusing doesn't really mean they have a foothold in it. Secondly, politicians usually refer to the part that they find interesting and most interesting, which is, as we can see, the SDA chose the Lukač question because it worked on an interesting case that was certainly meant to get something that would suit them, but not others. Here, you see, I'm really interested in asking Mr. Lukač about the events that happened when it came to the Chief of Operations Support Service of his agency, so where he's running, which is as well known by the High Representative's decision driven away without being able to appeal. So, basically, what I'd like to ask him is: how is it possible that he didn't investigate that Jovičić, as the High Representative honors him, was acting outside the chain of command in SIPA? So the employee who worked here, how could he, how did he get over it? How could he help one man, if that's how the High Representative wrote it, disable the legal functioning of the SIPA? Isn't it normal that he did something to make it impossible for him to function legally? Furthermore, if he had served the SIPA staff and resources to oversee the Office of the High Representative. So where's the proof? And that evidence, why isn't that evidence in the D.A.'s office? Why didn't he in the prosecution, why didn't he provide as a man who runs this institution, why didn't he initiate proceedings against a man suspected, according to the OHR Decision, that he was involved in corruption involving funds and a series of other qualifications given to this man? And in the letter, so by the accompanying act that comes with the report, Mr. Lukač says that no information or data has been presented today that could possibly initiate the taking of measures or actions from the authority of this agency. What does that mean? Is this man even guilty? And secondly, an officer has received a positive background check from the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency. Why was the man expelled from work? Due to decisions initiated at the moment, the current termination of the status of police officer, the Agency was unable to conduct an internal proceedings against officials. That's when you step on someone and they don't even have the right to breathe their last breath. So I can't answer those key questions. I wish we hadn't talked by heart and the president of this institution is here, and I also know that maybe what he would tell us is how much individual members would accept, or delegates to the House of Nations, so maybe this is a better version.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6865	I'd have to have one replica. However, in my opinion, that's the SDA, I'm the president of that party. I had no intention of politicizing this at all, but here. 71 I try, I try not to really enter that policy, this is the House of Peoples, I leave it for other spaces and opportunities. However, Mrs. Majkić said the SDA chose the Lukač case. We didn't choose Lukač in position, nor did we choose the Lukač case. The Lukač case was created as a result of certain illegalities. Then he was doing his job. So will we, and when it comes to Lukač, and when it comes to anyone else, and whoever comes to his place, always support the institutions that are in charge of the rule of law, especially when it comes to those people, because they did that job, will be sanctioned. I don't think that's right, and the SDA is fully in favour of the rule of law, and we've shown it in a number of cases through practice. And when we did some immoral act for all of our people, who have indictments or anything, we asked for their resignations and solved them. So I'd like to ask that we don't bring the SDA into any kind of relationship here with any case, not this case, not any cases that might occur in the future. We can also help Mr. Lujić and everyone else who runs this agency just to be helpful and to support it in accordance with the law. If Mr Rančić made any remarks, it is in one sense that this is no longer happening or that these remarks are removed and documents. Here's Mrs. Majkić wants a replica on the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6866	Dear Mr. Tihić, if that were the case with my colleague Rančić, I really wouldn't need to say anything and add it. If what you said is true is that you're only talking about legality, then I wonder how we can support it, with so much air support as Rančić gave Lukača, a man who bypasses his first guessed and communication, makes a curve to make his own kind of justice. Is that the right path that Lukač was working on? I don't know... whether he was supposed to be there or where he was going to be, there's a procedure and it's gonna be easy to prove that Mr. Lujić was wrong and put him where he shouldn't be, and that someone else will, it shouldn't be doing this home here. But that we're protecting someone who bypasses the first-in-command of such a significant institution as SIPA and carries the data there in just his known place, well, it can't do that. We can't let that happen, and that's why I rebelled, Mr. Tihić. So that's the only reason, or I wouldn't have talked since there's no Mr. Lujić here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6867	Okay. Mr. Božo Ljubić and Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6868	Mr. Chairman, at first I will replicate at the beginning of your debate when you say here: I would not like to, to say so, to bring politics into this house... another place. I will tell you a brief story: when Marin Topić, a well-known bridge painter, was briefly led by the HKDU of BiH for a short time and replaced the president of the General Committee of Široki Brijeg, and they asked him why he had changed him. 'How I won't change it,' he says, 'he came to my office and started talking politics.' Therefore, if there is a place to talk about politics, it is at the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. So you take that as a one-benign joke. 72 I would have to correct, I don't know if Mrs. Majkić noticed, three times before, when she discussed this report by Mr. Lujić, she used the name Lukač. So, apparently, he was a lapus. But here, when I mentioned that name, I also read this report by Mr. Lujić, and of course I disagree with him, especially in this section of Mr. Lukač. He here, the truth, says that the Director of the Agency took care of the professional, professional and qualifications of the applicant, etc., etc. And set him up for a job that fits, so that's what his references are. However, he does not say anywhere that he was taking care of the law, so that the transfer was legal. So, based on which he based that transfer. Therefore, I think, at the very least, that this report is incomplete and perhaps it would be best to accept this proposal from the Joint Commission and to take this into account and refer to the relevant institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6869	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić's still picking up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6870	Thank you very much. I, when I started talking, knew about the time and the Rules of Procedure, and I know I can talk about this for a long time because I'm familiar with a lot of facts, but I said that here's a few things I'm going to focus on wanting to honor both the Rules of Procedure and the shortness of time and that everyone gets a word to say. So, respected colleague Majkić puts a burden on the SDA what it does. Says the SDA chooses what suits him and then continues to talk about its choice of one subject, about one man, about one case,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6871	You've done the others well.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6872	and he puts it, and I wasn't just talking, I was talking about the deployment of both police officers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6873	That's what someone else is gonna prove.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6874	Don't, colleague, please, I said respected colleague. Can I speak? 73
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6875	All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6876	Thank you very much. So, I was talking about the building so on the phone, etc. It means more stuff. So, I didn't just focus on one thing. All the facts I've made, much more detailed, you've been present, on this committee I've presented, and if you want and if you have time I can now quote the provisions of the laws that have been broken. If there is an answer, which I have faced not only with you fellow delegates and MPs from the House of Representatives, but with lawyers from the SIPA who must know this area and have no answer. The director shouldn't have come. That's what my colleague Šaraba said, he shouldn't have come back then, and unfortunately, he shouldn't have come now. If there are arguments, here I am at my disposal. And even if I make a mistake, if anyone proves it to me, I'm willing to apologize. But believe me, responsiblely, he broke all these three laws and regulations, as I said. When it comes to Mr. Lukač's conduct in that application you turned to, that's what we discussed on this committee. The SIPA Excise Act states that the Assistant Director for the Criminal and Investigation Department has the right to communicate with the Prosecutor's Office and deliver reports to him. He's got a right without a director. And internal control found that he wasn't broken in that part of the law. And finally, here, if you want me to make it easy for you, to improve you, Mr. Nebojša Bjeljanin, I don't know what's by nationality, maybe he's a Srbin, was also head of the Secret Tracking Department there. And because he asked to do this job legally, to question some of the situations was removed. He's not there anymore. Here, you check it out. Maybe he's a Srbin, maybe he's a Hrvat, I don't know, I don't care. It's not the national policy that matters, it's whether something is done legally or not. Here, check it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6877	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Zrno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6878	Well, I'm here to try and bring this story to an end, because it's clear that we all don't have the same information after all. Someone's got a lot more than a lot less around the premises, syntagms that aren't linguistic but, come on, they're a little bit caricature. Indeed, we need to get out of this situation because we have come out of this situation and on this commission, in that we are unanimously proposing to this home, or to tell him that we did not accept this report, or that we are not satisfied with it. And it's clear... It is neither the first nor the last that we are not satisfied with, and it will be repeated, it is no problem at all, and we have proposed simply to put into office and an independent body that needs to be answered, or which should definitely and finally start and just ask questions... and look for answers and make solutions that we cannot bring in our own rules of procedure. Basically, this is about our impotence. And so I suggest to you, all of this will be gathered here, much has already been raised at the level of this committee, at home level we accept what we propose as the Committee and as a conclusion, and on the level of 74 questions asked by the Commission to ask those questions to the one who needs to be asked and to ask for an extended report and we will... [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6879	Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6880	ask for a report for this period from the ninth month to the end of the year to get out of this position, because we're going to enter a phase of conflict, absolutely at this point and in this place needlessly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6881	Thank you very much. If no one answers their word anymore, I'm closing the debate. I put it to the statement,... we go to the conclusions: 'The Joint Commission is not satisfied with the SIPA Work Report and the clarification resulting from the situation in SIPA, and therefore only receives knowledge.' That's the first conclusion. Who is “for ” that conclusion? Does anyone have “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted the first conclusion. The second conclusion, I understand Mr. Zrno has now reformed him in this sense 'to commit the Commission to the issues that have arisen from this debate, i.e., the remarks of some direction to the Independent Committee,' and if I understand correctly or perhaps you yourself say exactly how it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6882	We refer this report to the Independent Committee. It's the first level, like Dom. And the House obliges, I pledge, that with questions raised here, they seek the answer... that through our commission they seek answers in the SIPA.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6883	Okay. Can we also adopt this conclusion? Who Is For? Does anyone have “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. I realize we've adopted this second conclusion. And that's how we ended this agenda. 75 We move to the 20th point, that's ad. 20. Request to condemn threats and take measures to protect Republika Srpska's representatives in BiH institutions, with opinions and proposals from the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH You have received a request for the condemnation of threats and the taking of measures to protect Republika Srpska's representatives in institutions, which was sent by delegate Dušanka Mankić. You've been given the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. The Commission has decided to deliver this request for a conviction together with the Opinion and the Opinion of the Conclusions proposal to the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly. The House of Representatives of the request for condemnation of threats and measures to protect Republika Srpska's representatives in BiH institutions is considering today's ongoing session. I give the word to the applicant of this request. I give my first word to the chairman of the Joint Commission, Mr. Branko Zrn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6885	Thank you very much, Chairman. Here, we all know we're not going to a case gene, we all know what this is about. The bottom line is this: that this committee has really been debated. It's better to say the obvious, because some things are really unnecessary and debated, because to discuss the threat I think is a bit morbid, a man can only condemn her. Therefore, with eight votes "yes", we are on this committee, so there have been so many of us, we have all accepted and proposed the homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to adopt the following conclusions, under the first, second and third conclusions, the fourth is unfortunately very clumsyly formulated. In the end, it looks like the beginning of something, like the beginning of forming conclusions. Either we rename it, reshape it or delete it. He just can't be on his own. Help me...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6886	Thank you very much. Here, and Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6887	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6888	She doesn't want to. We have these three conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6889	I suggest we accept these three conclusions as Dom and that they become the conclusions of our home. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6890	Mr. Drago Ljubičić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6891	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry if I interrupted your intention to give this to you for a plea, but here's your permission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6892	No problem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6893	Allow me, however, before we make a statement on these conclusions to say just a few things. Me, and we will surely support these conclusions and join in condemning for sure all of what Mrs Dušanka Majkić experienced on that show. We also support this second conclusion, also unreservedly, means that we condemn ourselves and condemn all cases, meaning that I want to add here, no matter what television it was on, no matter who it was, no matter who it was, no matter what television it was, not just this television. And let me just have a second comment, so I don't keep you very much, look at public shows, I find it very interesting and this third conclusion, look at these public shows and text messages, which we can see in direct TV broadcasts. Listen to the radio shows. And when the listeners are directly involved you can see, gentlemen, and we can hear, and you can hear everyone, and we can all hear, so that means what these are and what kind of messages they are, what kind of messages they are. I'll be free to just say my own personal attitude. All this gives one special picture in this country, gives a special picture of us, of people, of citizens, meaning who we live in this country, simply what we think of each other. And that's why I would especially return to this third conclusion. I really expect the competent authorities at all levels to really get involved and try to prevent these things that are certainly negatively affecting continue to deepen our national relations in this country, and especially I have not seen here the role of RAC. I didn't see it intervene, but I think it should be included in these conclusions in the Regulatory Agency that has to react to these public broadcasters, whether it's TV, whether it's radio emitters, which allow them to simply transmit these messages to the public. They must, in my opinion, react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6894	Okay, thank you very much. If no one answers their word, we'll put this conclusion to the vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against? ” "Sustained"? I find that we have adopted these three conclusions as suggested by Mr. zrno. 77 Let's go to point 21. 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Convention on Temporary Import, ATA Carnet, Istanbul, 26 July 1990 You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this Convention. Is there a need for Master Alma Čolo? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. No Niko's answering for a word. Can we adopt her, give her consent? Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? I understand we've given consent to ratify this convention. It's already been done by the House of Representatives. And we have the following point: Ad. 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Stockholm Convention on Permanent Organic Contaminants, Štokholm, 22 May 2001
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6898	Here, report's done, let's go now. Let's just take this committee five minutes off.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-0.u6899	Look, at 4:00, we'll continue the session. The seat is closed at 3:05 p.m.
