ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29943	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 63rd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the MPs, our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who are monitoring the work of our home and representatives of certain NGOs who have requested permission to attend today's session. We also called on the president of the Independent Committee as the independent body of the police structure in BiH, Mr. Žika Krunić, to consider the Rules of Procedure of the Committee. At the meeting are attended, as guests, representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross/Cross, the International Commission for Missing Persons and the Company "Japan Tabako". I welcome all present MPs and guests, media representatives as well. According to service information, 29 MPs are present at the session. The absence was justified by MPs: Savo Erić, Jerko Ivanković and Vinko Zorić. I find that we have a quorum at the session for full-time work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin to discuss the agenda, I would like to introduce you on the following issues. Ambassador Denis Bećirović delivered a resolution on the historical value and importance of the first session of ZAVNOBiH on 25 November 1943 for the statehood of BiH, in accordance with Article 148 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. According to our previous practice, the House should be made aware of whether this resolution should be addressed to the committee responsible. If the House adopts this proposal, this resolution will be addressed to the competent commission; otherwise, it will be classified on the agenda of the sitting today. I am voting on a proposal to deliver this resolution to the committee responsible. Please, we don't have a chance, right, we don't have a chance. So we vote in a way that determines others when we vote. Here, vote now. We can do it again. Please prepare for the vote, prepare for the vote, we will repeat the vote. You can vote now. Please monitor the time it's time to vote, because I don't have the ability to control it. 2 "For" 28 votes, without "abstained" votes and those "against", sufficient entity majority and I find that we have sent this resolution to the commission stage. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow Members, I will soon introduce you to the amendments to the proposed agenda. Namely, the agenda is downloaded: Point 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration. At the request of the Constitutional Commission, he extended the deadline for the submission of opinions to the Kolegijum of the doma until 15.11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public TV System of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers (first reading); Point 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public TV Service of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers (first reading); and point 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). All three of them didn't get the commission's opinion, did they?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29944	We don't have the board's opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29945	We don't have the board's opinion, the points have been removed for those reasons. Point 28(b) of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Kingdom of Denmark on Development Co-operation at the request of our Foreign Affairs Commission, which also failed to deliver an opinion on the agreement. The following points shall be added to the agenda: point 3. The request of MPs Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Beriz Belkić to consider the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Parliamentary Assembly's Parliamentary House by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; Point 25. Report from the meeting of the political directors of the Member States of the Adriatic Charter, held 20. Nine. In 2009, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission of 27. Ten. 2009; Point 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Administration Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers (additional to the Report of the Constitutional Commission); Point 12. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH – Proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković (additional with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission); 3 I point 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Revision of BiH Institutions – Proposer: Momčilo Novaković (additional with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget). All three are negative opinions, there's a bold agenda. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29946	The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests and media representatives, on the basis of Article 65 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I submit the next proposal to supplement the agenda of the 63rd session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. I propose that the next item of the agenda be included at today's session Considering conclusions on the reduction of salaries and other material rights of MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In addition to the proposal to include the mentioned item in the agenda, I also submit a proposal for concrete conclusions as a discussion material on this agenda point. Given the importance of this issue for the moral credibility of the highest legislative body in BiH, I propose that this be the first item of the agenda following the review of the law in the first and second readings. I will not remind here what SDP lawmakers have been talking about for the past three years and what they have been fighting for when it comes to this topic, I will not even remind myself of this parliamentary initiative, which is officially on behalf of the club, which was signed by the club president and addressed on 1 April 2009 and where we have an opinion on this initiative, but I would therefore suggest today that we put this on the agenda and suggest that we try to adopt the following conclusions today as a House of Representatives. Number one. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives concludes that all MPs and delegates who are in a permanent working relationship with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly reduce salaries by 30% compared to the current salary level. Under number two. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives concludes that all MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are reducing monthly flats by 50% compared to the current level of the monthly flat-rate. Number three and four. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives concludes that it fully abolishes all monthly fees for participation and the permanent commissions of Parliament's Houses and temporary committees of Parliament's Houses. Number five. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives concludes that all MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are completely abolishing the regress for the annual vacation and the right to compensation for foreign language learning costs. 4 Under Number 6. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives concludes that all MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are completely abolishing their daily daily travel abroad.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29947	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29948	Number seven and eight. We owe it specifically to the Administrative Commission, not to be its will anymore, etc., but to carry out this initiative specifically. So, to finish, it's always been when we suggest such or similar ideas to happen as someone cheating on this majority that isn't for these conclusions, so always, under the circumstances, is being deceived by those who don't vote for this. Here, today I call upon most of the con men who are proposing, again under the precepts, these conclusions, because I think that only if we all plebiscitely declare it today can we show a clear will.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29949	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29950	That people don't say who you're with, but let's do it. I'm today
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29951	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29952	I'm not going to talk about it (I'm finishing one sentence) where I've been investing in humanitarian purposes so far, probably some other MPs have done it, if we have to, and we're going to do it, but I suggest we don't have a big debate. Let's make these conclusions today, let's show Parliament's will in a clear way and then this parliament will have the credibility to ask the question and what about the ministerial salaries
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29953	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29954	and salaries in public enterprises, etc., etc. Thank you, and I hope I don't hear from you again. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29955	I'm warning you, we're discussing the agenda. Proposers of the agenda point are familiar with the Rules of Procedure, do not enter the scale of things, the agenda point is proposed. If we agree to have a agenda, we'll open a debate about it. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29956	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, of course, journalists, so as we set out, I suggest that we leave this planned agenda for some next session, that all of these points that Mr Bećirović has now suggested that we classify it and discuss it, because I really don't see any other way. This isn't the first time, this is the 15th time. I don't know what you guys are, I actually know what you're doing in the College, couldn't this have been put on the agenda before so you could take a stand on this and that today we have a very clear view of whether we can have this, can we get support and get into the agenda. And this is how ad hoc from the beginning of the session when we're not prepared, when we don't know what it is, just suggest certain points of the agenda, it shows that this session can't get the flow it's supposed to have. So I suggest that all of this be rejected today and put on a future session when you in the Expansive College take your stand and say, make your point and give your opinion of everything that is proposed every time. This really doesn't make sense anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29957	Dear MP, I should warn you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, MP Bećirović proposed the agenda and I first heard this point as you did today. There was no question of this in the extended college, therefore a debate on the agenda is being opened. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29958	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the SNSD Club, I would like to propose a item of the agenda to fill the committees of the House of Representatives. I'm sorry... we didn't do that before.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29959	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29960	I don't hear well, I don't hear an esteemed colleague, Džaferović. Everyone thinks about their fillers and everyone do their part of the job. So, since you know the situation in our club and what's been going on with our colleagues, I'd like to pray in line with the earlier conclusion that we put that agenda on the table today. We're not going to be any trouble, and if he can't do it today, but I don't think it's a dispute, it's just a replacement for people who aren't here anymore. As far as this point is concerned, I did not, by preparing this proposal, listen to my colleague Bećirović. If he included a proposal to put this item on the agenda, and if he has a proposal to assign all the mandates to the deputies living in Sarajevo at the same time, I might be able to support it, because in some circle here, twos, we end up. And maybe it could and I didn't hear whether money was coming back, I understood that MPs should pay back some money, and I don't know whether or not the parties that have received some money in the last few days are paying back the same money. Have we decided to deal with all those receipts that we receive above and below the table and in every other way, but I didn't hear it well, so here we go...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29961	Replica, Reverend Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29962	No, no, I don't have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29963	Then Bakir Izetbegović. Mr. Izetbegović, you were looking for a replica, weren't you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29964	Well, here's what Šefik said in a joke, I think it's more important to fill in the Council of Ministers seriously, so I think until it's filled out that nothing else should be filled in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29965	Thank you. ... If there's no further discussion on the agenda, I'm closing the debate. I'd have two suggestions. One proposal that I have not yet received on the table, written by Mr Bećirović, asking to include as point 18 his proposal to cut wages to elected..., or MPs and delegates, correct me, I have no way to go exactly. But here, if we adopt that proposal, I'll read it the way you delivered it in writing. Please prepare to vote. Bećirević, do you have anything? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29966	I would ask – I think it will be multiplied in about five minutes – to take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29967	You're looking for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29968	Five minutes until it's all...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29969	No problem. Break, at the request of the SDP Club, five minutes. 7 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29970	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, please take your seats to continue our work. Thank you. After this brief break, I hope that all of you have received a written proposal from the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović, and we will approach the statement on the proposal. The proposal is to include a item on the agenda Considering the conclusions on the reduction of salaries and other material rights of MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Two, it doesn't, we don't have a chance here. Now go ahead and vote. 24 votes "yes", nine votes "against", one "abstained", and we don't have an entity majority. We'll agree later. We have a second proposal for a respected representative of Drago Kalabić to include the item on the agenda of the Amendment in the membership of the committees of the House of Representatives and the joint committees of both homes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29971	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29972	Dear Representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29973	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, I am withdrawing the proposal given that we have had objections and that obviously our club cannot get a full commission instead of the late MEP Jovo Todorović and MP Mitrović, so I am withdrawing the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29974	I thank the esteemed representative Kalabić. With no other proposals, I find that the 63rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives has the following 1. Approval of the minutes of the 62nd session of the House of Representatives; 2. Opinions on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. The request of MPs Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Beriz Belkić for the discussion of the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 8 4. Proposal for a General Product Safety Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-8609, of 25. Nine. 2009 (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Market Control in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-8409, of 25. Nine. 2009 (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01.02-5-8209, of 14. Nine. 2009 (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-8009, of 14. Nine. In 2009, with the Constitutional Commission Report; 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Gender Equality in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-3-8709, of 25. Nine. 2009 (second reading); 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political parties – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-4-8509, of 25. Nine. 2009 (second reading); 10. Proposal for a law on tobacco in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-8909, of 30. Nine. 2009 (first reading); 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Missing Persons Act – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, Act No 01,02-02-3-7709, of 8. Nine. 2009 (first reading); 12. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer Momčilo Novaković, Law No 01,02-02-5-9309, of 13. Ten. In 2009, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 13. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – MP Momčilo Novaković, Law No 01,02-02-5-9109, of 13. Ten. 2009 (first reading); 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer Momčilo Novaković, Law No 01,02-02-4-9509, of 13. Ten. In 2009, with the opinion of the Finance and Budget Committee; 15. Proposal for a Law amending the Transport Safety Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer Momčilo Novaković, Law No 01,02-02-3-9409, of 13. Ten. 2009 (first reading); 16. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer Momčilo Novaković, Law No 01,02-02-5-9209, of 13. Ten. 2009 (first reading); 17. Proposal for a Law on Student and Student Standard in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer Denis Bećirović, Law No 01,02-7-9609, of 14. Ten. 2009 (first reading); 18. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach agreement on Amendment Laws and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH – Proposer Bajazit Jašarević, Law No 01-02-4-8309, of 16. Nine. 2009 (first reading); 19. Report by the Commission to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Control and Security Agency for Forced Disposal of Assets acquired by criminal acts and the management of the seized property – Proposer of the SDP 9 Representatives of the BiH SDP, Law No 01-02-5-8109, of 14. Nine. 2009 (first reading); 20. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Commission’s opinion on finance and the budget on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Value Added Tax Act — Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SNSD, Law No 01-02-4- 3509, of 10. 4. 2009; 21. Report by the Special Investigation Commission on Car Purchase, which the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH bought over a period of 15 years. 4. 2008 to 15. 4. 2009; 22. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of police structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina (independent Committee Act No 01,02-34-6-112409 of 28. Nine. 2009); 23. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mirko Okolić from the 62nd session of the House, held on 14. Ten. In 2009, "the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina quarterlyly updated the measures adopted to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina while there is need for measures to be reported by the PSBiH House of Representatives; 23. Report from the Commission from the College on the effort to reach agreement on the resignation of MP Rifat Dolić as a member of the Special Investigation Commission; 24. Report from the meeting of the political directors of the Member States of the Adriatic Charter, held 20. Nine. In 2009, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee, issue 01,02-05-43809 of 27. Ten. 2009; 25. The appointment of three MPs from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee for the Consentation of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on BiH's Defence; 26. The appointment of three MPs from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee for the Consentation of the Text of the Free Zones Act in BiH; 27. The appointment of three MPs from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee for the Consentation of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH; 28. Giving consent to ratification a) of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the "Adriatic cross-border cooperation programme under the IPA" We are moving to a fixed agenda. Point 1. Ad. 1. The adoption of the 62nd session of the House of Representatives Any objections to the 62nd session of the House? I don't see any reports, I'm closing the hearing. We move to the 2nd point of the Ad agenda. 2. Representative questions (a) Comments on answers received 10
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29977	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me to welcome my fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the Council of Ministers,... international communities, NGOs, information and guests. Look, I've been asking a parliamentary question on two occasions about the Branimir Glavaš case, who is not suspected of a war crime, but who was convicted of a war crime, and it means the person to whom the war crime was proven. What is absurd is happening and very rarely can happen is that a person convicted of a war crime from one country, by mysterious circumstances, moves to another country and that state is in no way responding, even under suspicious circumstances, I may say, and apparently, a certain land for the creation of a residential facility is assigned transparently, probably. And finally, to my dissatisfaction again with the answer to the question 'what caused citizenship and political responsibilities?', meaning that it was given and whether there was political responsibility when it was known that in the trial process and at the time of the sentence, that is, why there is no reaction because it is on BiH territory and committed war crimes against the Serb population in the Republic of Croatia, and we know that one of the constituent peoples in BiH is also Srbin, while on the other hand, which I have nothing against, is being persecuted by all those who are suspected of war crimes, throughout the globe of the Earth, and so it is necessary, but we all need to know, both we and the international community, that someone who is suspected of war crimes cannot be more persecuted than who is convicted of war crimes. 11 Therefore, I have received here an explanation of the regiment, which lists the official messengers in which the Law on Citizenship and Other Regulations has been published and how it is all clear, whether Branimir Glavaš is a person convicted of war crimes or not. In that sense, I will most likely launch an initiative to amend or supplement or the Law on Citizenship, or certain regulations... or other sublegal acts that regulate that area, because it is really unacceptable that no one reacts that a man convicted of war crimes freely moves in one and any state. It's time for him to go along with his sentence for which he was convicted. That the person in the trial or the suspect is already a completely different story. However, the Republic of Croatia reached its verdict, and then you can imagine how severe the verdict was when his country ruled that he was guilty of war crimes against Srbin who took place in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29978	Thank you. The next is a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahemtović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29979	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I rarely ask questions but I really need to comment on the answer. I asked the question on 26 April 2007 and I received the answer in October 2009. At the beginning, I would like to thank the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, which was addressed to the issue, which was answered pronuncially on 14 May 2007. So here is also the context of this comment, perhaps the question. For two years, he has been travelling a response from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to me as a parliamentarian. Well, here's a question and maybe an initiative that if it's a matter of this House's pisarnica here to send us answers in DHL mail. I will now return to the content of the answer. The answer is very exhausting and, let me remind you, my question was about the age of the appointed judges and prosecutors. Among other things, I was given back in 2007, whether, when the answer was given and the explanation that currently, in 2007, 25 judges were aged 65-70, 65-70, and that five prosecutors were present at that age. Let me remind you, judges and prosecutors may be appointed to the seats of additional judges until the age of 72. A little absurd, but here's the thing, since it's been filled for these 25 judges and five prosecutors for 72 years, I'm going to repeat the question. So, again, I refer the question to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to provide an answer to the previously asked question concerning appointed judges with a term of office which reached the age prescribed for compulsory retirement and the reasons for which the High Court and Prosecutor's Council had conducted to define them for their appointment, i.e. the term of office of judges and why no age rule for the termination of the term of office applies. So I repeat the question and ask the College to provide a way to reduce two years of travel of response from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to me as MPs. So, with the quick mail initiative, I have another initiative very short. The chairman, today is November, at my place two minutes to 11, at 12 o'clock in this room is almost noon, so I'm going to ask you to make sure that the service technically during the first break informs us of the exact time in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29980	Thank you. We will ensure that the services of the Parliamentary Assembly determine the exact time and hope that you will be satisfied with the reaction. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29981	Thank you. I asked a specific question several weeks ago for three ministries within the BiH Council of Ministers concerning human rights violations of BiH citizen Ilija Jurišić. In asking this question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have stated that I am asking, given the extremely difficult health conditions of our citizen, for the answer to be delivered within three days. First of all, I remind myself, I asked why, that is, what measures will be taken by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human Rights and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to protect the citizens of BiH within their jurisdiction. Of course, the lack of an answer to this parliamentary question is also some sort of answer. Therefore, I have also stood up to ask you, who are currently chairing the House of Representatives, to call once again on the competent authorities to answer parliamentary questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure as prescribed by our procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29982	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29983	Thank you, Your Honor. At the 59th session of the House of Representatives, I asked the following parliamentary question: "Is there any information as to how many workers have been fired since the beginning of 2009 for those under 35 years?"? And I got a response from the Statistics Agency that they have the requested data on the structure of the fired workers, as they collect data from the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment. The question was raised out of fear that when the workers were fired, the methodology "Last In, First Out" directly affected young people who are employed in the economy. Therefore, I propose to the Agency for Labour and Employment that they enter into the structure of their report and age as an essential feature, not just a qualification structure. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29984	Thank you. Is the comment given by Honorable Representative Nanić? Dear Representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29985	I thank you, Chairman. I got the answer to the question from the 52nd session and it concerns the number and method of charging fees for watching the satellite program in the diaspora, bh. Citizens in the diaspora. And I got the answer in the table that so far since the establishment, meaning the possibility of satellite monitoring of BHRT, sold 3,500 cards, per year from 2004 to 2009, noting that the price of one card is 90 euros per year. I really don't think that these data in any way correspond to the real state of television viewing in the diaspora, given the data and contacts both with relatives and the people I have there, that there's a mass view and that there's probably a certain abuse of the way of tracking satellite programs. That's why I needed to get up and call BH TV, their management to examine why it's such a weak charge and whether it's really this kind of situation in watching the BHT satellite program. If only, here in 2008, 551 satellite cards were sold all over the world to watch BH television, it's really alarming for BH television to do something about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29986	Thank you. No more comments for comments, or is this a question? _________(?) Question? Okay. Here, I will publicly call on all institutions and all institutions and all those whose representatives, in accordance with the Constitution, are asking parliamentary questions that they are more responsible for dealing with their constitutional and legal and business obligations to act more up-to-date on parliamentary issues. Moving to b) New Agents' Issues
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29989	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, I have two questions. Both apply to the same area, it's a matter of return. And here's the first question: 'I would still, according to official indicators, have an extremely unresolved return problem for more than 200 thousand refugees and displaced persons who want to return to their homes. For this job, it is necessary to restore about 45 thousand housing units and ensure conditions for a sustainable return. The minimum estimated value of these activities is close to 1 billion KM. In terms of this above, the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly tasked the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury to find favourable credit arrangements abroad for the financing and implementation of this project to the end. I ask the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Ministry of Finance to address the stage in which these conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are realised, what are the effects so far and what are the projections for the next period." That's the first question. Second question: Three months ago, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly did not adopt the revised strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement, with the conclusion that the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is preparing a new text of the revised strategy. It is known that the adoption of this strategy depends on future return policy, the possibility of allocation of funds, both for this return process and for the financing of the right to compensation for the damages of refugees and displaced persons, especially the possibility of a credit debt that I was just talking about. The second question is, "Did the Ministry prepare and give the procedure to adopt the new text of the strategy and if not why not and when they will do so?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29990	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29991	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, I have two questions. The first question is, let me say, and the negative answer that I got on the previous question, so then there can be another way to answer it now. Due to the permanent attack, condemnation and continued red warrants of Interpol against BiH citizens by the surrounding countries, I want to ask the next parliamentary question. Since I'm not sure which ministries are headed for a problem that interests me, I refer the question to the BiH Council of Ministers: "What are all domestic institutions involved in the procedure when this red warrant of Interpol arrives in our country? Do these procedures mean some kind of consent between domestic institutions and which, before they start acting on these warrants? And thirdly, in particular, if this agreement is really necessary, I am interested in: How was the procedure for the implementation of the 15th Interpol Prosecution in the case of four Tuzlak, including myself, when were they arrested and brought to the BiH Extradition Court? The answer, so I'm asking the Council of Ministers, because it's more institutions." The second question is: On the basis of the Law on the RTV System of BiH "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 78/05, since 8 November 2005, the status of the Corporation is approved by the System Committee within 30 days of the day of the constitutional session. The corporation was to be registered within a legal period of 45 days from the date on which the constitutional session was held. For a note, the Board of the System shall make up four members of the Board of Directors of BHRT, RTVBH and RTRS under the same law. The system committee was to convene a constitutive session in December 2005 and adopt the Statute of the Corporation and carry out its registration. After four years of obstruction on Day 11. 8. In 2009, a constitutive session of the Committee of the System was held and held, which has the function of the Management Board of the Corporation. The legal deadline of 30 days imposed the adoption of the Statute of the Corporation until 10. 8. 2009 and its registration before the court until 25. Nine. In 2009. After this re-break of the legal deadline, the System Committee has reached a special conclusion that the Statute of the Corporation will be adopted by 31. 12. In 2009. Question: 'For whose obstructions does the Committee of the Public TV System BiH break legal deadlines for the adoption of the Statute of the BiH Public Television Service Corporation? And secondly, I ask that the Council of Ministers, together with other competent institutions, respond to the reasons for breaking these legal deadlines."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29992	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29993	I have several parliamentary questions that I deliver in writing in accordance with our business provisions. Since each of these questions would probably deserve a broader explanation, etc., so I don't waste my time, since I've already appeared several times at the beginning of the session, and we see what the agenda is today, I'm delivering all the questions to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29994	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29995	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I today have one parliamentary initiative and two parliamentary questions. The parliamentary initiative is addressed to the Council of Ministers and concerns the completion of the adoption of appropriate regulations and the planning of the budget of the BiH institutions for 2010, for the purpose of regulating permanent fees for credited athletes in BiH. I'm delivering the argument initiative in writing. The parliamentary question, first, is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers: 16 'By which regulations and who appoints liaison officers to the UN tribunal, to whom they are responsible, to whom they report their work and are national liaison officers prescribed or another unwritten rule of national cuisine and cooks in BiH?' I ask this question because I must say that until recently I was not sure that BiH, in addition to all national products, has national liaison officers with The Hague tribunal. I am interested, therefore, in which regulations and who appoints these people, from where their work is financed and to whom they report, because it is my impression, when I listen to their statements on the media, that they are the spokesmans of national parties, not BiH state liaison officers with an important institution such as The Hague tribunal. The second question is addressed to the Banking Agency in the Federation of BiH and the Governor of the Central Bank of BiH: 'Is it in accordance with the applicable legislation in BiH and the Federation of BiH allowed and morally, at a time when the economic crisis and recession in BiH take their bloody toll, that banks unilaterally increase the interest rate on approved loans, unilaterally offering an annex contract in which they regulate it as an alleged voluntary act, and in practice it is about imposing, retroactive application and harsh green blackmails that customers are forced to accept because they have no other choice in the short term?' To ask this question, I am encouraged by the oral performances of five legal entities on blackmails conducted by Hypo Alpe Adria Bank d.d. Mostar unilaterally provided them with an Annex contract in which a regular interest rate, consisting of a height of six-month library for the Swiss franc plus 4.25%, increases to the height of the six-month library for the Swiss franc plus 6.25% or nominal by 2%. All legal entities that have addressed me have given me insight into the contracts and the appropriate annexes from which it is visible, except for the Municipality of Great Claudius who have not given consent that they can be formally used in asking this question. I ask that my parliamentary question be referred to both the competent inspection and that it has to be considered as an official application for interest, and as evidence attached, I provide copies of the contract and the proposed annex that the bank in question concluded and offered to the Municipality of Veliki Kladouda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29996	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29997	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have one initiative and one parliamentary question today. The initiative is the College of this House "to form a special investigative commission from the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, whose task is to determine the extent of corruption in the authorities headed by SDP personnel, with a special reference to the city of Sarajevo and the municipality of Novi Grad". In writing this initiative, so let's... My parliamentary question is addressed to the BiH Prosecutor's Office: 17 'By reason of a major corruption affair in the Novi City Municipality and by breaking into action that prevented the arrest of top SPD officials for racketeering Sarajevo businessmen, I ask the BiH Prosecutor's Office to answer the following questions: How did the planned action to hand over the marked money to SDP leaders and who broke the action just one day after the planned handover of the marked money, and prevented the arrest of an organised criminal group at the SDP summit?' Explanation: The entire public of BiH and the wider, through the media, is familiar with the biggest corruption affair in BiH's history where the top SDP officials recruited the largest Sarajevo businessmen and thus directly undermined the BiH economic system, prevented investment and created a bad picture of the investment and investment environment in BiH. As a state MP, I have an obligation to ask this parliamentary question on my behalf, on behalf of a large number of citizens, because an action to arrest senior SDP officials has been prevented by breaking into action. The BiH prosecutor's office in this case needs to determine as quickly as possible who broke in... action, that such a person is adequately punished and that such needs as urgently as possible... and that there is no place in state institutions. As some media have written, they write today, and it is seen from the covert recording and monitoring, we also have stenograms here, that there has been a collection of evidence of the existence of a criminal organisation led by SDP President Zlatko Lagumdžija (I am sorry that he is not here today), Marin Ivanišević and Damir Hadžić, which proves their meeting at the Bosniak Institute where everything is recorded. In times of major economic crisis and recession for ordinary citizens it is incomprehensible that someone can ask 3.5 million for a service, which is 1% of the total investment – 350 million. But how much greed for money... the SDP leaders agreed to a smaller amount of 2.2 million, and to be paid in cash, not in cash, but in cash – 10% of the square metre, meaning projected. Now it is quite clear to everyone, and it has long been clear to me that I was right when I told here in this House repeatedly that Lagumdžija is the richest politician in BiH... and that he gained his wealth by recalibrating, in a criminal and illegal way. I have also repeatedly said in Parliament that where the SDP is in power – that power is the most corrupt and criminal, and now it has proved itself. And, therefore, I ask the state institutions to carry out this big political affair professionally and that those who have entered the action are adequately punished. We have a case where we're being lectured on corruption and crime, that's what you keep a thief in style. While I'm here in this House, the first time I hear crime, corruption, corrupt power from the SDP gentlemen, you'll always have an example of your corruption and crime, so you know you can't read anyone's lesson while I'm here. I'm sorry Lagumdžija's not here. Drug Lagumdžija may be a measure to measure corruption.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29998	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u29999	He slipped on a banana, offered himself a rotten somewhere, and I'm giving him a mature here... and let him wait for him. Whenever he comes, he'll get a banana, because what he's doing to BiH citizens wouldn't do it... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30000	I hope we don't pass on fruit. I want you to know that it's at 13.30 a.m. (for those who need to know) by 3:00 p.m. That's what we said at the Expansive College. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30001	I thank you, Chairman. I have a quick question. I refer it to the RTVBH Management Board, which reads: "What is the Management Board and the Management Board of RTVBH doing to ensure the coverage of the signals throughout the BiH territory, especially in the area of the Janja Local Community in the Municipality of Bijeljina?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30002	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30003	I thank you, Chairman. I want to take the opportunity today and ask a question asking the Ministry of Security for information on the situation in one of the institutions in BiH, at the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts. Namely, I received – looking at one of the sessions, referring to a request to be delivered to us on the basis of the adopted conclusion of this home plan of activity in the disclosure of automafia in BiH, where this home was entrusted by the Ministry of Security to deliver... – I received a reply from the deputy director of this agency, which I mentioned, the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts and, indeed, through this response one can see a truly inadmissible situation in that agency. That such a relationship, means... that the letter states that it is illegal to lead the Agency by the Director, that the Director is obstructing the development of a plan and supervision of the plan to fight the automafia, etc., that the Deputy Director has met the Ministry of Security on this condition, that he has met the Council of Ministers on the state of the agency and that there is no treatment on that information. In that sense, I really have no right, I have no right to keep this matter quiet, given the document delivered, and I request information from the Ministry of Security about the situation in that agency and whether the references in this letter are correct. If so, I ask the Ministry of Security to act on these allegations and information as to how this letter is handled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30004	Thank you. 19 And the last to be reported, the honourable apostle Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30005	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I have one question that treats a bit of a dreary issue. Yesterday in the village... the municipality of Kotor Varoš marked the 17th anniversary of the death of 163 Bošnjak civilians. At one location in the village of Plicka, five bodies were exhumed in the municipality of Kotor Varoš. That was in 2002, and the DNA analysis showed that it was a group of these 163. I ask the BiH Prosecutor's Office, since there has been no adequate reaction so far, 'will the indictment be brought against the persons who organised and committed the crime mentioned?' And secondly, what have the judicial authorities done so far to solve this case?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30006	Thank you. I'm closing this agenda item. Let's move to point 3. Ad. 3. The request of MPs Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Beriz Belkić for the discussion of the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Member of the Commission As you can see, this request for consideration is by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Just briefly, immediately, regarding the request for 127. And at the extended college, we all agreed unanimously, by consensus, that it was a technical change that harmonizes the time of the amendment phase with the calendar of the work of the institutions. For this reason, this proposal was on the agenda today. I've got two colleagues on report, right, about this. So, dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30008	Thank you, Your Honor. Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed guests, you see, I said at the Expansive College it is not disputed that I will support such a change, but I just want to say one fact that is inevitably the consequence of this. 20 After the adoption of this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, a reduced procedure no longer makes sense. So, the procedure under Rule 126 loses every sense and we practically, by adopting this Rules of Procedure, are considering all the laws..., in a way, in a shortened procedure. Because considering now with a double cut in time would mean five days, and we know in a business way how the sessions of the homes are scheduled, that it takes a certain period of time for material, etc., which practically ceases to make sense to the application of Article 126. This is just because this commission that exists, which has largely completed its work on amending the Rules of Procedure, should also be taken into account. It would be good, of course, to find space in the Rules of Procedure to resolve this issue, although the big question is now whether it was easier to adjust the calendar to the Rules of Procedure or to the Rules of Procedure of the calendar. But here, if we don't open this thing now, it is in the new amendments to the Rules of Procedure that have the EU mark -- it is understood that they are being discussed in a shortened procedure. I think that was enough and that would be enough: when we have such a working regime here that every law has that mark, then it will be sufficient measure. Until then, this amendment to the Rules of Procedure remains, here I will support it only for those reasons which, in some ways, I support to speed up the work on the adoption of the law, that is to say, to solve the fate of the laws that are in the procedure more quickly, whether it is important or less important, under the alleged signs, of course, the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30009	Honored President Milorad Živković, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30010	Thank you, Chairman. We're discussing the 127 procedure. Reasons whether this is what we need to do according to this procedure or whether we should follow procedure 126, in which we might be in a relationship with your discussion. And I am standing open to convince Parliament, together with me, that it is necessary for this proposal that the College has made here to be considered in a shortened procedure 126 and that the proposal listed here, of 10 days, is re-evaluated together. So your discussion wasn't about what the subject of this agenda was, and that's why I called in for business intervention. We are here to discuss this request whether this House is necessary to discuss this urgently, because we have come into a situation, we have spoken on the enlarged College, that the calendar of our meetings is contrary to the 15-day amendment phase and that we are knowingly violating the Rules of Procedure. That's why I think 127 is the only choice we can make. If the others in Parliament think it's 126, we can vote on it. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30011	You see, Mr. Chairman, I didn't suggest that we discuss this under Article 126. I said that... a business provision that defines a debate under Rule 126 no longer makes sense when we adopt this. And I stand by that it doesn't make any sense anymore, because that cut then from 15 to 7 days, we now have 10 days, if we divide it into two, it's 5 days, it's 21 not enough to schedule the sessions, because there we said that the material must be delivered, or that the session must be scheduled eight days before its maintenance. So I wanted to, and I made it perfectly clear that it's losing its meaning, not that I'm suggesting 126. I even said I would support this because we agreed to support it in the College and support it but only as a solution to the final adoption of amendments to the Rules of Procedure where this issue must be fully clearly defined. I repeat, it is a great dilemma, gentlemen, whether it is more correct to adapt the Rules of Procedure to a calendar that the College determines or makes more sense that the College adjusts the calendar of holding meetings according to the current Rules of Procedure. I see this more as our wish and intention to speed up the law-making process and practically have our first reading, and we have a second reading at the next session. If that's how I look, I support it. That's how I see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30012	Dear President Milorad Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30013	No, there's no misunderstanding. I just want to warn the MP that we are discussing a request of 127. If there's any dilemma about the proposal that's put in here, let's discuss it, but then we'll take a debate of 126, and let's say, it's not 10 days in order to put it down, it's going to be 13 days, so half of 13 is going to be six, etc., etc. So, I don't want any MP to put any grudges on this proposal he made to the Kolegijum, unless there's a real argument. If they have the right arguments, let's discuss it together by 126 and accept those real arguments. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30014	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Look, amending the Rules of Procedure is not a very small thing, because it is reflected later in our work. I'm afraid something that's hasty or here by article 127 after that doesn't bounce away from our heads. I don't mind that we speed up our Parliament's work in terms of passing the necessary laws, but I'm just afraid that there will be no problem afterwards in the sense that we shorten the amendment procedure, and yet this committee fails to meet, the competent commission, to hold a session of Parliament, and then because of the demands of this commission or because the commission could not meet again, we will have to put that agenda item on some next session, which does not mean that there may be no arguments for this and for what is in the proposal. And my proposal today is not to discuss it, so I'm going to go straight to business, I suggest we don't discuss it for 127 because we can get into a situation where maybe this fast change and supplement, or the amendments to this Rules of Procedure, will then be a technical problem for us in terms of preparing amendments to certain laws. The question is whether there will be enough 10... time from the end of Parliament to investments etc. So my proposal is not to discuss it by 127, but in another form, i.e. 126 or in a regular procedure, along with that Rules of Procedure or as a special point. Thank you very much. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30015	Thank you. I don't have any more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 4. Ad. 4. Proposal for a law on general product safety – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-86/09, of 25. Nine. 2009 (second reading) At the 62nd House session, held on 14. Ten. In 2009, the law was passed in the first reading. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has submitted Report 2. 11. In 2009, you were supported by the text of this law. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 5. Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Market Oversight Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-84/09, of 25. Nine. 2009 (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30018	I welcome all present. I have no intention of taking a lot of time. I answered for one simple reason to affirm and, to put it that way, I commend the way in which this law is explained. I think this is a pattern that we should all use, because it removes a series of problems and a series of misunderstandings that happen here in this home. In addition to the reasons for the changes, further information was given, such as consultations, the text of the law, etc. was given. And it could have been understood that this is a single package, I'm also talking about this point of the previous, so the proposal for a food safety law, so 23 of these two laws, practically with this argument, who wants to understand, are really prepared in a very good way and I am giving recognition to the relevant ministry on such prepared drafts of the law and, of course, I recommend that we adopt this, because we simply implement two or three directives and agree with EU legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30019	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30020	Dear Chairman, we have received one promise from the competent ministry and the Secretary-General, which, fortunately, I see is fulfilled, that by New Year's Eve, we will have in the process several more key laws that are in the economic sphere, so that we, on the committee responsible, these two laws, of course individually, debated and reached an almost unique conclusion that they get a pass-by in Parliament. And I, on behalf of this committee, can only suggest and expect the support of fellow Members to adopt this today in a second reading, because there was really nothing practically controversial, and they are very important for regulation and control of food safety. And this next law that will come is also over in the same sphere. So I end up, so I expect them to get support, because there was really nothing controversial about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30021	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolići, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30022	Since I have earlier suggested that, with the text of the amendment and the addition of this law, the text of the applicable law be put in place, I am obliged to say that this is respected when it comes to amending and supplementing this law, and to say that this is a really good practice and that it is easier to cope with all this and that those who have no intention of doing the same thing so far, I suggest that they do so, because we will be able to have more effective insight into the amendments and addition of the law compared to the text that is valid. A little commendation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30023	Thank you. No more discussions and debates reported. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 6. 24 Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Criminal Procedure Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01.02-5-82/09, of 14. Nine. 2009 (second reading) At the 61st session of the House, held on 30. 9, this law was passed in the first reading. The Constitutional Legal Commission submitted Report 2. The 11th and supported the text of the law. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-80/09, of 14. Nine. In 2009, with the Constitutional Commission Report
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30026	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, let me just say that, although I know that this is not possible in business, I do say one sentence only regarding this amendment to the CAP. It seems to me that there are some technical repairs to that text that the Department of Justice is willing to accept as its own. But you see, I haven't been able to get back to you to talk about it. We can fix it later, so it's not a problem, but I think we'd better do it now. So, the Department of Justice is and here is the esteemed Ms. Milan, she runs that area, she can say what it's about, but it's over. I've volunteered to speak now about the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission, regarding the Administration Act. You have seen that the Constitutional Commission report is negative and most of the votes of the members of this committee have adopted this opinion. Members of this commission who voted against the law in the second reading, including myself, think that the law contains some solutions that are unacceptable. I mean, the Law on Administration, as it is conceived, that is, its amendments and additions, includes some solutions that do not belong in the Law on Administration, which belong in the Law on State Service or which are already governed by some other laws. That's why we didn't support it. The people at the Justice Department know what it's about. I ask that this be taken into account in 25 futures, because, let's say, one of the things I will speak out in full, in Article 7 of the original text of the Management Act is said 'that the satisfaction of the BiH administration will be according to the proportionate principle', so according to the 1991 census, that is, the last census of the population as spoken there, and then, completely unnecessary, it was not in that place at all, changing one member's position, one member's position that does not speak at all, and then it is said 'that when the appointment of the BiH management executives will be taken into account' and the term is used, on the constitutional composition of the people in BiH'. First, I don't know what that definition means. In Article 7, there is already a definition of how management will be filled and there is simply confusion in the law itself. Then one place, although not at all, is Article 34, which I was talking about, and then intervenes on Article 55, for example. The law and there are some procedures for the functioning of institutions in case, for example, the directors of administrative organisations are no longer in office or their mandate has ceased, which seems to me to be a small door trying to resolve some of the situations that we have in practice today, and nothing further is said about it. None of this is mentioned in the reasoning of this law. This law changes half the provisions of the existing law. So out of 110-120 members of this bill, this changes at least half of those members. You have an explanation that's not really an explanation at all, you can't see anything from an explanation. And it is much more important for me that the Proposer delivers quality explanations and that he honestly says what his intention is, so he proposes a certain change, because the explanation also says what is a valid norm and what is proposed by change. It's much more of a quality explanation than, say, a list or the original text of the law that I can follow that thing. We have to build a relationship of trust with each other. The promoter, the key promoter and the engine in proposing legislation in this country is the Council of Ministers, and I want it to be that way, and I will always promote that principle and welcome that principle, but I want us to be fully open to each other, the Council of Ministers to Parliament, to be completely transparent and to say what we propose by what change. It seems to me that there are certain proposals in the Administration Act that have made no explanation for this law, which are not on this trail. If I'm wrong, correct me. I'm asking you to take care of this. Everything in this House will pass as we estimate it is normal, that it is logical, that you convince us and I think that's how we should do it. Here, I invite you now to tell me. I do, and we all deal in our own way with constitutional law, we all do, you know that a very important category in BiH is participation in government. How is it possible that in Article 7. The management law, which remains and does not change, there is one principle and then for the total number of BiH-level executives, one definition is proposed for which I basically do not know what it means. There are no such definitions in the constitution: the constitutional composition of the peoples in BiH. What does that mean? Is that parity, is that proportion, is that roughly parity, what is it? Do not make laws that will in practice cause confusion tomorrow and let this serve as an example that this is not how it can be done and, if after this thing goes right, I will be pleased that this law has not been adopted, which has been adopted by the Constitutional Commission Report. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30027	Dear President, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30028	Thank you, Chairman. 26 I would like to talk about the principles in the work of the MPs, the Council of Ministers and the legal projects that we receive before us. Those principles were talked about in another way when legislative projects came to the Council of Ministers unanimously, which had been commented by MPs from the RS. At the same time, we have a legislative project in the Council of Ministers, where different principles are cited in the work of this Parliament, and it is not said that this Council of Ministers is all Council of Ministers and when it gives both bad and good laws. I would also like to say here about the principle on which the Constitutional Commission worked when it proposed the law unanimously in its first reading and supported the law and did not raise any problem that we have in this law, that, after that, without any amendment, without any amendments, it would try to fix this law if there were problems in it and we had a negative report and that we were asked to drop this law. So much for principles, so much for consistency and so much for Parliament's work and the Council of Ministers. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30029	I know, Mr. Chairman, that this has been unanimously established on the Council of Ministers. It's nothing to argue with. You're actually knocking on the open door. You don't have to give me a replica of this kind. I want it done like this. I understand that completely. And as for the Constitutional Commission report, I've been trying to fix this law with amendments. It's not possible, it's not just possible. You have no arguments, no arguments, and there was a dilemma on this committee whether we should postpone or not. And then we decided, the ones who voted like this, that... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] (Is that something to me...?) (?) No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30032	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30033	Dear Chairman, I don't know how much sense it makes to take part in this because we've told this many times and well, it's okay, just to remind ourselves of what our positions are. Mr. Džaferović is wrong, he well knows that the application of double standards is at work when there is talk of working in the Constitutional Commission. On the same commission, it means when Mr Bećirović's proposal on the Bill on Student Standard was before, Mr Džaferović knows well that there is no logic to adopt such a proposal, but the principles he spoke of when it comes to this law did not apply. And I think it's unnecessary to discuss it more. We all know our positions. Someone at one point is gonna break the valve and say they're not going to go like this anymore, and that's the point. What are the reasons behind, we could now open the debate, why lately SDA has been increasingly breaking the law, increasingly blocking processes, increasingly setting up these obstacles, I don't know, but it uses these opportunities and that's how it is and I don't think it's worth exhausting in these discussions. The decision has been made as it is, and everyone has the right to his/her/her/her/her/it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30034	Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30035	I don't know what my colleague Kalbić means when he says the SDA has been obstructing more recently. Will you give some examples, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30036	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30037	I thank you, Chairman. In the light of the Constitutional Legal Commission’s reasoning, this negative opinion stands among other things: ‘The Commission, in accordance with Article 112(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representative, has a negative view of the proposed law as a whole (i.e. giving a negative opinion as a whole) as to whether amendments to certain provisions of the Administration Act contain unacceptable solutions.’ I think it's incorrect of us to be open, the Constitutional Commission. They should have indicated what these were unacceptable solutions to the Constitutional Commission. This is unacceptable like this, this explanation of 'unacceptable solutions'... stressing that it is only an unacceptable solution. What solutions are unacceptable? For these reasons, and that these things no longer happen in the future like this: that this commission does not deliver this report to us. You should have highlighted at least a few of these unacceptable solutions and that we know why the Constitutional Commission delivered a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30038	Thank you. We have two replicas. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30039	I think it should take a lot of time to elaborate everything that the SDA has done lately, starting with this day, means where the principles on which you have spoken to others when they come in unanimously from the Council of Ministers, means... through the session and they can get support. For these reasons, not to repeat to a respected colleague named Remzi who explained how it was explained, why it didn't work out. Here you see, I mean it is, you've blocked the fullness of parliamentary commissions today, you've stood up and said that instead of us here, the deceased MP can't put another MP on the committee. You've been talking here for six months about the conditions for meeting from the Roadmap. The MPs of the SDA block the adoption of the Rules of Procedure on the work of police bodies for completely inexplicable reasons, because of the score there, dots, we can't get to this Rules of Procedure, even though we chose the bodies that should work. All that name and last name work, last session you knocked down two laws. That's all MPs from the U.S.A. do. You shouldn't, I don't know, you don't even need to justify yourself. It's your right, you have, behind it are some goals that I don't want to go into, but these are notorous facts that speak clearly. I was just expecting you to say this morning that you won't be working here today unless they're witnesses, representatives of the US Embassy, neither do I, the Western embassies of the EU, and I don't know the others. Here, I expected, believe me, you'll say that if they're not here, you won't work. This is the only body left to keep from looking for some supervision and stuff. I mean, if it's not the kind of blockade, and I'm not getting into what the goals are.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30040	Replica, honourable MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30041	Mr. Chairman! So, drago, here's to you, Mr. Kalabić, because the SDA will vote against all the solutions that are trying to make a worse situation than we now have in BiH and will support any solution that tries to make BiH a better state of mind than the current solution, and there are solutions that come from the Council of Ministers who are trying to make the existing situation worse in certain areas. Among other things, it refers to the Administration Act, and that is the essence, and the SDA recognizes it well. You see it. We don't need any supervisions and those three that you, and the firecrackers, fire it somewhere else, don't shoot it here, I mean, it certainly won't cause any effect. And to you, Mr. Kadrić, (as well-known principled president of the Administrative Commission who gives a neatly clear explanation of all decisions), thank you for teaching how to do the arguments Constitutional Commission, at least for trying, is. And for starters, I'm going to ask you to read again what it says in the Constitutional Commission Report, but good, is it, and learn lessons. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30042	Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30043	A colleague of Kalabić offered some reasons and arguments that I would not say anyone here understood. They're probably not clear to him either, though, and I don't think this is the level at all to talk 29 in this home. So, the SDA is very responsible for doing its job and trying to fix some things, not even obstruct. We are trying to get to fill the place of security minister in BiH. Look at the composition of the Minister of Security College. Out of nine people, only one is Bošnjak. And then you're still obstructing the SNSD thing to set up a minister. And you're not responding to any warnings or OHR requests, and now you're giving us some ridiculous unargued stuff.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30044	Replica, the honourable MP, Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30045	It's a replica to both of us, and to Bakir and Šefik. So the SNSD didn't exclude anyone from the Council of Ministers but SDA. You've reduced the number of ministers in the Council of Ministers and... that's your fault. It's a clear thing as a day. And in the reasoning of the Constitutional Legal Commission, I will read again: 'The Commission, in accordance with Rule 112(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representative, has a negative view of the proposed law as a whole, explains that the amendments to certain provisions of the Administration Act contain unacceptable solutions.' That's what it stands for. That's where the dot's put it. If that's enough explanation, then really, I really don't have any additional comments. So this explanation isn't enough. This argument should state which are unacceptable solutions. So this would never be done by the Administrative Commission when it makes its decisions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30046	Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30047	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I believe that the Constitutional Commission has analysed this law well from all sides and it has been a major debate and, ultimately, the solution that has been proposed by my court, and for that moment, for that reason, and for that moment is the best solution that the Constitutional Commission has given. There have been various proposals and there has been an opportunity, a business opportunity to keep the law without the law being completely rejected, and we felt that the best solution in Parliament today is to revitalise this law in a certain way and make certain changes in it. Because the law must have certain changes, because it has a lot of illogicalness and they have to be corrected. These corrections, perhaps we members of the Constitutional Legal Commission have at some point made a mistake. I may also accept a certain mistake that we have not discussed the law in the past, I will not say more seriously, but more precisely, that in time we should make amendments to that law and that the law should remain alive. And my proposal is for Parliament to decide, and in my court the only possible way to extend the amendment phase and to return this law to the Constitutional Commission for a certain period, where it would give time for the motionor and those who consider it necessary to do certain things (let's say some of the technical nature) to make that law change and to come to another law that we can adopt. I think that would be a solution, and in that case Parliament as the largest legislative body would make no mistake, no offense. And the Constitutional Commission could in 30 completely reject this law and not accept it, so whatever arguments you want could have been written, but the essence would not have been achieved if this law had been maintained in the procedure, and as the most responsible body, we are certainly MPs, or this Parliament in the session. And I suggest a solution like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30048	Replica, President Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30049	Let's recap. The Interresor Group worked and did this law. The Council of Ministers passed unanimously. Our Constitutional Commission 28. The 9th found that it has a constitutional basis and is in line with the BiH Constitution and legal system, which means that it is also in line with the laws that have been spoken of here. What's happened since the 28th? 9 to 30. The 10th time a negative report was made? What happened in the Constitutional Commission that this law that they believe is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of this country is such that it cannot even be amended, what happened? I'm talking about honesty here. Tell me honestly what happened. Drago Kalabić, discussion. Mr. Džaferović, you can answer the discussion, you used the replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30050	Here, colleague Džaferović, I'll sell you this recipe. And I'm going with the replica through the discussion, so you can. And I'm going with a discussion that is essentially a replica, so I'm giving that recipe to my colleague Džaferović so he can say the same thing. It's not worth talking about here. When the SNSD corrects the laws, then it destroys the state, abuses entity voting, and when the SDA breaks the laws, well, like they do something good, they fix it, like when a cigar in that joke says when it steals, it says, what a child knows is 100 kilos, I mean, that story is funny. You take this down, we can't stop you. Destroy as much as you want. Shoot, we don't have the mechanisms to stop you. We're just estimating the situation and establishing double standards. Here, in the last two sessions you've done a lot of destructive things, it's your decision, and we can't influence it. Republika Srpska has invested a lot in Tarik Sadović, and you cut him up with a session of the SDA presidency. And we built him a politician a couple of excellencies. And he was good until you broke it. And you drove a man away. Here, I forgive Remzija only because he's from the RS, which took my replica just now, forced the man out, and now you remind us, accused him of the darkest things. And I am convinced, knowing Tarik Sadović well, with all the remarks, that he is not in this scheme that is spoken of. It's not Tarik's type. He certainly can't be attributed to what's being attributed to others. And it wasn't right for you, you removed it, and now you're asking us why this isn't there, why there's no why it's not going, why it's not going. Well, don't, I mean, about those things. I told you to tear down the most ordinary Rules of Procedure... The Police Body Selection Board, you've been taking down the Rules of Procedure for two months now. You know that's a condition from the Map of Ways. Here we have accepted, chosen and supported, and this Rules of Procedure supported, now you there, Bog killed me, if you can explain what you're destroying both yourself and all of us. The body's working rules there, everyone knows how it goes and how it's going to go, there's procedures, there's laws, there's everything, but here's the deal on this Rules of Procedure. And you don't have to apologize. And I don't care why you decided to do it, but don't, obviously, the visible principle of double standards is working. You think you can better run politics, and that's your choice, and I don't think there's any need to justify ourselves to each other, but it's our right to understand that. 31 We have lost the messenger as we have lost, we have to fill this commission, you do not give it, what now? You don't give and you can't and we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30051	Time, actually it's not time, it's a discussion. I'm sorry. Halid Genjac, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30052	Thank you. I'd still like to get back to the point. These manifestations of speech skills are welcome, however, it is a law that has meaning and which therefore has opportunities and to adopt and discuss it, etc. However, I would only draw your attention to some solutions under this law called the Administration Act. Article 42, Article 43, Article 44 and Article 45, those members are said to replace the words 'Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications' with the words 'Minister of Justice'. So it is replaced by the words 'Minister of Justice' in all these members. We don't have a minister of justice, we have a minister of justice and we have a ministry of justice. So that's one thing. Article 34 of that same law says: 'The management of the administration body shall appoint and resolve the body governed by the Constitution and the law, making sure that the number of managers appointed to the position of BiH institutions reflects the constitutional composition of the people of BiH.' 'Constitutive composition of the people of BiH?' Even after longer thinking, I probably didn't make it, and hardly will anyone understand what this means and what it means to say, and these are some of the solutions in this law. Now, I agree with the fact that these amendments could try to fix and correct, but in law there is a lot of this kind of unfair and unsuspecting lexics that simply raises the question of what is going on and is it possible to fix this law with such amendments? One way is to extend the amendment phase and give it another 15 days and give the Constitutional Commission a solution afterwards and I am a supporter of that solution. However, I would turn to one fact that is deeply related to this, both to this law and to a series of laws. The SDA's presidency has replaced the security minister, the smoldering force, the argument made, the objections that were present, not citing these objections as its argument, but citing objections as a fact, but the SDA has had the strength to replace a minister whose work there has been an objection. Are the others ready to replace perhaps the chairman of the Council of Ministers and other ministers who also have terrible objections? That's the question. And I'll remind you of only one fact. Under the Law on the Council of Ministers and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly, the procedure for the appointment of the Minister of Security is strictly prescribed, and there is no Council of Ministers to play a role, the chairman of the Council of Ministers does not carry out the appointment procedure, but delivers it to the parliamentary commission, Parliament ends, and we are waiting for it in Parliament. So, he stopped the process with one man, the consequences of... no organs, no bodies, no relationships, no conditions. There is a strict legal obligation and one man has stopped and broken the law, only one man. The consequence of that is next. In the Council of Ministers, however, there is a Committee on Internal Policy, which is a co-ordinated body for the area of work of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, 32 of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security. The chairman of the committee is the vice-president of the Bosniak People's Council of Ministers, i.e. the Minister of Security. The result of the blockade by the chairman of the Council of Ministers is that there is no Committee on Internal Policy. And the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers say that "all questions from the competence of the ministries of the position (1) of this member" (which I have listed, these ministries) "before the debate at the Council of Ministers' meeting, must be discussed previously at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy". Since the Security Minister was removed, there has been no session of the Committee on Internal Policy. So, by knowingly violating the Rules of Procedure, therefore knowingly obstructing the appointments has led to knowingly breaking the law and knowingly breaking the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers, and it is likely that this is the reason for us to receive laws, among other things, with such lexis and with such formulations. If it had gone through the board and gone through the proper bodies, it probably wouldn't have happened this way. But my motive on the Constitutional Commission was that the law was written like that, which should really be seen if the amendment could be fixed, that's one thing. And the other thing, if we choose to do it, then we need to conclude that extension period, etc. The question is, however, really: what about the other laws, because all the laws of those ministries must go to the Committee before the meeting, before they come to the Council of Ministers' meeting. We have an illegal situation. We have a situation where decisions, solutions, bill proposals from these ministries don't go to this committee. What's our answer? Shall we passively observe this situation? Shall we watch how the Rules of Procedure is broken, how it is done illegally and illegally? I mean, like Parliament to which Council of Ministers suits? I don't think we can do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30053	Thank you. I didn't mean to interrupt, but I think it would be a good idea if you suggested it as a part of the agenda so we could all discuss it. Today it's on the agenda of the Management Act... I don't mind if we discuss this, but that should be the point of the agenda. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30054	Well, here, you see, it seems to me... to talk in the second reading about the revision of the law, about the possible extension of the amendment or the amendment phase, or the business something new to introduce, which is that another deadline is set for the amendment phase, when that amendment phase or the deadline was, and I don't see that any amendment has been tabled by anyone, and now to discuss whether the minister of justice or the minister of justice is really excessive because it could, as a technical error, be corrected by the amendment at the time of the amendment phase. It is obvious here that a certain part of the political parties in the position do not want this law and it seems to me that it will be unnecessary to extend, if such an item is, this amendment phase because it will probably get nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30055	First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30056	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests, well, here is the pity that there has been no more debate on this subject, because we would certainly better conclude that all arguments of a type of illogicality, inadmissibility, etc. They are not essentially arguments for the non-adjustment of amendments and additions to this law, but that they are essentially reasons somewhere else, which is not in the content of this law. It is correct and it is allowed, unfortunately, in political practice that if you are dissatisfied with the fact that a minister who is not by chance from your party is sitting in a ministry, for whatever reason, because you have certain problems with this party, then you say quite legitimately: e, Minister, that the golden proposal you make me will not pass. And I have to say... I see something like this. I specifically answered, not to defend Minister Čolak, so I will not call him the Minister of Justice, nor the Minister of Justice, but because of Mr Čolak, who is the Minister of the HDZ of BiH (he does not write anywhere in the Rules of Procedure, but you know that he is, I know) in the Council of Ministers, and I would at least try for the dignity of a person. The qualifications here that have been presented say that we do not have a more unprofessional minister in this country. Because, you know, when a minister with an interresor group, with his associates, I see them here at least two or three, and all graduate lawyers with years of experience, make a bill of law, and when the experts who have learned something only through political work start criticizing those ignorants, then you can think of what these arguments are. I understood where the key problem is: the uncertainty of the type of what the constituent peoples in BiH mean, what it means. Here, I'll translate it for you. These are Hrvat, Bošnjak and Srbin, for those who do not know. It is a provision from the BiH Constitution whose content I am not satisfied with (here, now I am talking about something that is not a subject but like you) but we must respect it. Let's change those provisions, so maybe we'll find a more understandable name for what we all know is. So here are the non-constitutive peoples of BiH, Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, so there will be no dilemma. What's a proposal that's mostly controversial, if it's controversial? It is required that management officials in the administration reflect the composition of constituent peoples or, to be even clearer, that the constituent nations, that the peoples of BiH are equally represented, I don't know if there is a clearer formula, on the leadership... I know someone doesn't like it. But I'm not gonna say that. I want him to have me more than the others. So to speak, and that's the reason. And don't look for reasons where they're not here. If that's the only reason, then it could have been amended. Probably me or someone else wouldn't support that amendment, with me not having enough hands to stop it. And I, fortunately, neither I nor my club have enough hands to stop any project, no matter what anyone thinks about it, but we're trying to act affirmably and support all the projects that we even suspect, here's what I'm saying, that they're making progress on this country. If the Interresor group, and we have heard through some other laws that have not passed before in this house, followed the application and implementation of the law and came to the realization that certain solutions in the law that we have need to be harmonised, improved, improved, and not true that there are no arguments. It is said in the explanation of the Ministry, the Council of Ministers, or the legislator, that the existing solutions have been improved, so that certain provisions have been clarified that would allow easier, faster and simpler application of the rules. Now, I'm in a dilemma where I can trust more now, these exhibits so-called. who work at the Justice Department or the real ones who aren't there, is this an improvement or is this, as I've heard in the debates here in this home, the backdrop, the damage. I'd like to, by the way, here's what I trust. As long as I trust them, the Council of Ministers in full composition will have 34 of my support. When I don't trust the Council of Ministers, whatever minister is responsible for it, or I will demand a vote of no confidence from that minister or the Council of Ministers. But obviously, from today to tomorrow, we have different principles, from case to case, and we can never get to the point of view that we can be credible and really look each other in the eye by looking to say that we work together for the common good. This opinion of the Constitutional Commission is flat-rate – I return to the topic – it is flat-rate, when the chairman of the Constitutional Commission finds criticism to the applicant that his arguments are bad. So here we have, here on page and a half, explanations. Well, maybe there's a little explanation, and there's enough for me. For a position that rejects a complete project, the reason is, a respected colleague, much shorter. And you are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and you are obliged to give an explanation as to why you consider it unacceptable. So count, and say what is unacceptable to you. You're just saying it's unacceptable and you appreciate that it's an explanation of all the reasons. I can't agree with such arguments. So, and here's the conclusion, I suggest we reject this non-business report of our commission and return the law to its discussion and review and ask for an additional report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30057	Thank you. I have a request from the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Srđan Arnaut. In accordance with Article 168(2), I give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30058	I thank you for your word. Dear MPs, the Administration Act was passed in 2002 and has not been amended so far. And a lot of laws, such as the Law on State Service, etc., have been amended, and the Law on Ministrys, on the bodies of the administration, and apparently that in the Law on Administration should have been amended for the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications... – the responsibility of the administrative inspector... and the appeal of a solution to the Ministry of Justice, not to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. And right to tell you, the amendments to this law have been taken from the beginning by us as harmonizing with other laws. To be honest, when we were watching and when I was interested in what happened on the Constitutional Justice Commission, we had observations... actually Dr. Genjac stated that instead of the Justice Ministry should be standing the Ministry of Justice, the Minister of Justice actually did. So a simple amendment could also be made: instead of the minister of justice, the minister of justice wrote. So, that's a tennis stunt, too. So it's nothing essential. The second remark mentioned concerns Article 34 and the lack of actually a term to 'adultise the constitutional composition of the people of BiH'. But here, to say that the Constitution says 'he is raising the general composition of the people of BiH'. Again, this one word could be written in the amendment phase: instead of constitutionally written in general, because it was copied from Article IX of Article 3. The BiH Constitution, which Mr. Lozančić, the chairman, has already said something. 35 From the Constitutional Commission's conclusion, not to say again, even if we wanted to fix the law, we could actually take a stenogram but I don't think there will be much more arguments in the stenogram than the ones that were presented here, but the arguments that were made on the Constitutional Commission have actually been made. There was not only enough speech, it seems to me, about a member of 56 who had changed and who regulated the situation when the director... of the administrative organisation was prevented from performing his function – in which way his replacement was regulated, whether it was a administrative organisation in the composition of the ministry where this authorisation was given to the minister, or that it was about other situations regulated in the law. So, not to be too long, if there was any ambiguity, then you could also try to say in the amendment phase: the proposed solution is good or not good, and this is the kind of attention we draw to more or less, let me say, the technique of writing the law, even though you saw that the Office of Law had 15 remarks that we all accepted, that this was considered, I don't know how many times, and that there was really a chance that we could solve these technical things. And on the grounds, they would immediately provide an additional explanation if necessary, and if the substance is in Article 56, then we could do so at the amendment stage. I would support this proposal, let it be discussed again within this additional time limit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30059	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30060	Mr. Lozančić, on several occasions, touched the discussion. So I most resolutely want to reject any thought that this is related to the origin of the minister from any party. After all, the law on the Constitutional Legal Commission was defended by an assistant, I think she's Bošnjakinja, here's the deputy minister from another party, etc. So it's not about who the minister is and I don't think the minister is responsible for what happened, these failures in the law. I don't think the minister is responsible. That's the situation I explained. Here, in some ways from the Deputy Minister, we've responded that these are technical repairs but they really need to be done. That's one thing. And I mean, I'd go that way to fix it, too, to extend the amendment phase. And another thing. Mr. Lozančić, I understand very well what the constituent nations are and I understand them as the Constitution has prescribed and that the Constitutional Court's decision, but it does not say that they are constituent Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak, but rather says that consistency is made by Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and others. So these... components of BiH, and this is in the preamble of the Constitution: Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and others. And this formulation in article 34 is simply a formula that can be interpreted in three least ways, very different and opposed. And this has to be made clear not to be subject to interpretation, but to speak very clearly what is meant to be said. And the question is whether it's just a technical error and whether technical repair is needed, because we have a constitutional provision that says that the composition of the management structures at the level should correspond to the proportional composition of the population according to the last census. That's the point. Thank you. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30061	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30062	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I think that in the debate on this law, we were actually discussing everything just the least about the law itself, that is, the way out of this problem. Look, we on the Constitutional Legal Commission have had our thoughts, some of us there members have thought about asking for an extension of the amendment phase and we have not received support for this proposal. Look, and let's just say it's not a rare case, not only in the Constitutional Law but in all committees that if there's a possibility of the law getting support, and now between the first and second readings in the competent commission, it's more into the essence of the law, so there are some remarks, so it's not a rare case that we've been extending the amendment phase. At the end of the day, we have several laws that we have removed from the agenda because, on the Constitutional Commission and on other committees, we are looking for additional time to essentially study the laws to create conditions to adopt them in the procedure, not to reject them. I think we could have done it here, too. Unfortunately, we didn't do it, and I'm not getting into motives right now, which is why someone's thinking one way or the other. If colleagues who do not support this law in this text intend to support the law in another text that can be corrected by amendments, then this House can reach a conclusion – when it rejects a negative report by this Commission, of course, if it rejects a negative report by the Constitutional Commission to ask the College or bring it, in fact, not from the College – extend the phase to be corrected through the amendments, if there is at all an opportunity to fix it. We need to be honest here that the remarks made here are such that the amendments can be fixed very simply. I don't think there's been a lot of honest discussions here, and that's the bottom line that we're not really going to tell what we're motivated by this debate. But here, if I don't get involved in this kind of debate right now, I think that the proposal from colleague Ajanovć, who was also on the Constitutional Legal Commission, is a correct proposal, means that an extension of the amendment phase is possible and that those colleagues who have amendments are going to make amendments and that we, people, come to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30063	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30064	Thank you. I have to be correct and say that it's not a replica, but that I've abused this institute of replicas, but this is the conclusion, the suggestion of a conclusion. I don't want any more, my word of honor. In line with what 37 colleagues Ajanović was saying and what was potentiated by counterpart Novaković, here we have actually had a chance on this field to see things and this law served only as one terrain, however, there was going out of the field, but. So, I propose a conclusion on this: 'The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH returns the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Administration of the Constitutional Legal Commission to review, in a way that extends the amendment phase, in accordance with Rule 112(3) of the Rules of Procedure.' And to end the discussion of it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30065	Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30066	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, I, as chairman of the Constitutional Commissions and this commission, have had excellent co-operation with the BiH Ministry of Justice and our work so far has mostly been going very correctly. There's never been a problem with any law. And that is why I am taking the opportunity to reject any insinuations about the relationship between parties and ministers and us who are here in Parliament and who are in the Council of Ministers. But once you find out a thing that, here's a mildly spoken, it's not logical, it's not right and then you take into account, let's say, Mr. Lozančić's discussion that told the truth, so all of it is, the point is that, Mr. Lozančić, what you were talking about, I mean, I said it right away in my fair statement. Whoever wants to understand, he could have pulled it out of my exposure, which you said. That's the point. And beware now, Article 61(3) of the existing Governance Act speaks of the fact that the manager must be aware, must be fair, must be honest and so approximately some moral principles, and suddenly this Article 61st position (3) is changed by a single provision that is not in that place at all, its place there in Article 7 if at all it is in its place and said 'the managing authority of the Authority is executed by the body specified by the Constitution, making sure that the number of executives placed in the position of BiH institutions reflects the constitutional composition of the people of BiH'. And then you have an explanation that doesn't touch a single solution at all, and this is a capital matter. I mean, you noticed it, I said it. There's one more thing that's very important, which we didn't mention. It is related to these appointments that are current. We've seen it, I mean, regulations are being read. So we're having a disagreement. I am looking at the BiH Constitution so that BiH has set up to function on the principle: on the civil-ethnic principle and that is how it is, or ethnic-civil, whatever you want. Both definitions and other definitions are possible. And the BiH Constitution has prescribed parity where parity is necessary, to reflect the principles prescribed in the BiH Constitution's preamble. We had this discussion in the April 2006 Constitution, so it was a very difficult discussion, that, when it comes to the Council of Ministers' composition, it included parity, so it was not included, but it was included in the law. Here's what we said: "All right with the law." Now it's moving on, and now it's going against these executives. This is a matter that, at least, if I want to be correct, we have to discuss, so let's say what we have to say, not act the way it's done in this law. So, without reason, where there is no place is one capital thing that means, Mr. Lozančić, this is what you're talking about. The constitutional composition of the people means parity. That means 38. I agree with you. Eh, I agree that that means it, and I don't agree that it should be so and I don't agree that it should have a place here and we're talking about the essence. And that's why we, who are from the U.S.A., think this as a problem here, so open, completely public, and that's why I'm in line with those who feel that this should not be fixed by amendments, but that it should be brought down because it's such a cruel provision, and there's another, I repeat, in this way, entered into a law without justification into a place where it's not a place. And that's why I was talking about a relationship of trust, and that's why I was talking about a relationship from the Council of Ministers and us from Parliament. And for the record, everything will be read, every point, every point interpreted, so it is not in the first reading, it is in the second, it will not pass. Therefore, I want us all to know that here in Parliament, not that we are now inventing reasons for such or such conduct or to give lessons or to judge the Constitutional Legal Commission, what attempts, among other things, are they today. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30067	First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30068	Thank you. I'm glad that we understand each other and that we all understand what anyone is saying and what their views are. But for an even better understanding, I will repeat again: as long as I do this job, I will advocate the equality of the people of BiH, because BiH's prosperity does not exist without this equality. I am sorry that today there are those who are not for the equality of the people of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30069	Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović. The discussion, was it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30070	Discussion, I no longer have the right to reply, and in fact, it is a replica to Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30071	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30072	So, normally, the U.S.A. advocates all the same thing as you, deputy chairman, but in accordance with the Constitution, according to the Constitution, means a basic, real document that says the administration will be established in accordance with the proportional representation of the people of BiH. Article 34 is therefore anti-constitutional because it seeks parity and goes to the heart of Bošnjak. And we will vote against, to be absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30073	Replica, Honorary Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30074	Thank you. 39 As my deputy said, let's get this straight, so here's a little bit more. Namely, in the preamble to the Constitution, the esteemed colleague Genjac, the last position in the preamble is said: 'Resembling the basic principles', among other things, 'and in New York 26. Nine. In 1995, Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin, as constituent nations (together with others)', where they did not remain constitutional but did something with the constituent peoples. Therefore, these others cannot be constitutional but can be citizens of BiH. Let me get this straight to the end. In order to be able to move proportionately in BiH institutions, we need to make a list of the population that will know how many Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak and the proposals that are well-intentioned, I would like to say in the end, there is no room in the Rules of Procedure to give any additional amendment phase or anything else, although there is obviously a majority and a good will to do so, but those who work in the Constitutional Legal Commission need to know there is no such thing. Those who vote, when it is possible to expand the amendment phase, must know that these more... there is no possibility in the Rules of Procedure that the amendment phase is now being subsequently given. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30075	Well, here, it's just actually a correction to an incorrect quote. It has been said here several times that "the officials placed in office in BiH institutions will reflect the general composition of the peoples," it says in the Constitution. And it doesn't say the word "proportional" anywhere, it doesn't exist in the Constitution. So that word doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30076	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30077	Well this could be said to be correcting the wrong quote, but since nothing corrects it might be said to supplement your allegations, Mr. Chairman. You quoted the Constitution of BiH, you said, whether, 'constitutive peoples', the bracket in the Constitution stands 'together with others'. I just want to add what the Constitution says: 'as constituent nations (together with others), and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina'... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30078	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30079	Well, this is a direct replica of you, Mr. Chairman. Since I am not a lawyer, I will read what it says here in Article 112(3), which I have called upon in this proposal, and he says, 'If he does not accept the report, the House of the Competent Commission shall request the creation of a new report based on the new guidelines set by the House and within the time limit set by the House.' I understood it as a possibility that Dom could...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30080	And where are the amendments, where are the amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30081	Look, Dom sets guidelines and deadlines, if he wants to, if he doesn't want to...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30082	The only thing we can do is get back to our commission, it's only a problem with the amendments. Sadik Ahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30083	The BiH Constitutional Court has reached a decision on the constitutionality of the people and needs to read what it says there. It says that the constituent nations in BiH are Bosniaks, Srbin, Hrvat and others. So the general composition is also a proportional composition, so you can interpret it any way you want, he, where the parity is prescribed, is prescribed by a special law. It's an exception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30084	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30085	Replica. In Article 34 of the proposal of this law, it reads: "The Head of the Authority of the Administration appoints and resolves the body designated by the Constitution and by law, making sure that the number of executives appointed to the position of BiH institutions reflects the constitutional composition of the people of BiH." I would ask the Proposer, I would ask Srđan Arnaut to tell us whether this member is against the Constitution or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30086	It's a letter of honor.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30087	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30088	Thank you. I don't need... So, if the deputy asks for a word, I will give the word but in order, the honourable Member Azra Hadžiahmetović is. Here you go, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30089	Thank you, Chairman. My discussion will be very brief. If we were to add all the arguments here for and against, I would try to group them into two groups of technical nature, technical-language etc. and, of course, those of nature relating to the need to comply with the Constitution and the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people. If the proposal, which had already been discussed earlier, in terms of extending the amendment phase would not have been given the necessary majority in this House, I suggest we go in the direction of some solution, in the sense that we reject a negative report by the Constitutional Commission and empower the Constitutional Commission to in the spirit of the discussions that have been heard here today to correct these two types of nature. So, what is said about technical errors, which is obvious and I think everyone agrees in that sense and, of course, the corrections in terms of harmonising certain structures listed in the law with the structures in the Constitution, that is, the Constitutional Court's decision on the consistency of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30090	Thank you. Just a minute. We want to get out of this situation, if Dom agrees, as follows. In fact, there is a possibility in our Rules of Procedure if the Commission gives a positive report to the House to open the possibility of making amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that these are new guidelines. We in the College have discussed, if the House can already do so, why can't this right have this commission when it discusses this law the second time where Dom said to take this discussion and new guidelines into account. That's why we in the College think, if the House doesn't mind, that the possibility is given to this commission when it opens, when the House returns it, giving it new amendments as new aspects. It would, if it were returned to her, reduce the possibility of doing so in the House, in the House itself, rather than giving this commission the opportunity to do so. If you agree with that, it would be an interpretation that brings us out of this situation. Thank you. I don't have any more reports. Dear Deputy Srđan Arnaut wanted to answer this question asked by the honourable MP, Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30091	The Constitution clearly states that it reflects the general composition of the people of BiH, so this 'adults the constitutional composition' – it's in writing when you do projects like this you happen to think that you know the Constitution by heart and to write something that doesn't really mean anything. This is where the Constitutional Order was to be prescribed. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30092	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30093	We can, we can talk this way, we didn't need anything. Article 7 states that it is in line with the census. And this doesn't derivate Article 7, so even Article 7 does not derogate the Constitution. If the Constitution says it reflects the general composition, then we can ask if we can write Article 7, whether, and there is no end. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30094	Thank you. Please don't throw away, we have a chance to discuss this on the Constitutional Commission again.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30095	So please this solution, if you allow me one sentence, don't talk about proportionality, don't talk about parity, don't talk about those elements, I never mentioned it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30096	Thank you. I am concluding the discussion and I would like to ask the honourable MP Adem Huskić to come along with me from the College this conclusion that he suggested we formulate in a way that we get out of this situation. Thank you. Moving to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gender Equality in BiH Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-3-87/09, of 25. Nine. 2009 (second reading) At the 62nd House session, held on 14. 10th, this law was passed in the first reading. The competent Commission for Gender Equality submitted Report 2. 11th and accepted the proposed text of the law. I'm opening a debate. Dear Messenger Mirjana Malić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30098	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here we are in the second reading phase of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Gender Equality which has passed without the amendment and it would be 43, perhaps even excessively, if I had said anything. But I really need those who haven't had the time or which, please don't mind me, but let's just say, maybe I don't care as much as I do about this kind of problem. With all the heart of this law, I would also like to emphasise this opportunity that this law, which was offered six years after the adoption of the basic Law on Gender Equality, was the first of its kind in BiH, and that it was really necessary that, because of the need to comply with a series of legislations that have been created in our country in this six-year redistribution with the EU directives, with the recommendations of the Council of Europe, all of which have been made in the last six years. Finally, even after the adoption of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, we have before us amendments and additions of laws that accurately specify what this should be in the Law on Gender Equality fully clarified in order to harmonize the situation in our legislation in some way. I also need to say, because of some of the concerns that have arisen during the debate on some other law proposals, that Article 10 of this law specifies what obligations of the authorities of all levels to comply with all laws and regulations with the provisions of this law and international standards. Also, I am very pleased and I really welcome, extend and specify competences, not only of the BiH Gender Equality Agency, but of the next member and jurisdiction of the entity Jender centres, which are also expanding in line with the activities needed. And finally, what we always cry out for is even specified in Article 15 that the legislator is obliged to deliver after, I hope, the adoption of these amendments and additions and the consolidated text of the law to make it easier to apply and easier to apply. So here I am not taking up much of the time, and I think the most birdic among us will see that this is the law that is necessary, that changes are necessary, and that this is one of the laws that really not only creates an illusion of equality but also enables us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30099	I thank the honourable representative Malić. The next one was announced by Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I don't think we've been left with many opportunities but to adopt this law, so, given that each discussion, especially from here on out, would be interpreted differently. But what I've come up with is that I've tried to find, and here's the first thing I'm gonna say is that the word "gender," "gender," and I have to be honest, is that in this law there's where and where I'm supposed to be and where I'm not supposed to be." Here, I don't know what a gender means. Here I was looking in Serbian there and I didn't find a word of the gender anywhere. Here, with Cyrillic, she's written, translated into Serbian, finely written by the gender. There's a geender in our Serbian language, you know, he's a little longer, but he's not a gender, he's a geender, it's kind of like in a chain, is it, but that's not it. Look, this is what I said seriously about being upset right now. But here's what it's all about. Look, let's say, "Article 5. Paul represents biological and psychological characteristics by which the faces of the male and female are different, and then further, 'and signifies the gender/rod.' If the gender is related, then why do we need a gender/gender? So, "as a sociological and cultural difference between the face of 44 men and," I don't know, I'm not going now, so I'm not reading any further. I'd really like to, here's if someone in these terms were what the law means: what does this word "gender" mean? And here, I'm asking my colleague Mirjana to tell me honestly what this means, because in different places I get the feeling that it's different. In one place is gender, in another place, I don't know, here's how to translate the gender plan. Is that a birth plan, if the gender is related and I don't know? So that word pisses me off, I don't know why you didn't find a nicer word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30101	Answer, distinguished representative Mirjana Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30102	Well, here, I'm in debt, I think, although I'm not obliged, I'm not the one who created the law and I'm not the author, I believe in Serbian the word "gender," as you say, or "gender" as it says there isn't. But I believe that you too – no matter what you try, indeed, and very successfully and every honor to speak very clearly your language variant – are not completely amnesty from the use of internationalisms accepted in a spoken language, especially when they draw closer or closer signify a term that when translated into our language can have a double meaning. And it seems to me that it has led people in our country that, regardless of the language we speak or who call what they call, they are attached for efficiency in language communication of some internationalism. Because when it comes to gender equality, it's not a biologically appropriate term. Lucky for us, I'll say it now, and don't get me wrong, we're not even at birth. There are definitely biological differences between men and women. But there is a tendency for modern civilised societies to be equal. Now, equality and equality aren't the same concepts, not semantically, not linguistically, not terminology, not whatever you want, and when you say gender equality, it's biologically, or this nonsensus. And that's why, I mean, the legislator decided to use internationalism. And Gender, we have a Gender Agency. Someone set up that agency and gave it a name before I even participated in this House, so don't ask me why the lawmaker started using an internationalism so accepted everywhere in the world that there's no dilemma at all what it means. And I believe that when the Kinez were doing the Beijing Declaration, they used a lot of jender, and I believe it's not even in Chinese.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30103	I thank the honourable representative Malić. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30104	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I really appreciate the efforts of both the Council of Ministers and our fellow Members in order to comply with our regulations with the requirements of international institutions, and one of them is this law. However, here is only two things I want to focus our attention on, and it is the definition of gender equality in which the article says 6. ... 'that it exists in the case where one of the sexes is represented at least 40% in the bodies of the position (1) of this member.' And the bodies spoken of: these are the meanings of state bodies at all levels of the government organisation and 45 bodies of local self-government, including legislative, executive, judicial, political parties, legal persons with public authority, legal persons owned or controlled by the State, etc. I think this is for the BiH environment and the capacities that BiH has too ambitious and I think it will cause huge problems in BiH. Appreciateing the need for gender equality in BiH, I think it's... In what way will political parties be controlled and 40% of the sexes that someone says... which of the sexes is less represented, under conditions where these provisions, criminal provisions, even legal...? I think this, perhaps, might have been found... some other solution or I don't know what, with respect to the need to regulate these things in law and to give maximum support to the adoption of this law. The next thing I really appreciate is that it will bring problems in the implementation of this law, and that is the fact mentioned in Article 21, that is, in Article 10 and the old Article 21. – the obligation of the competent authorities to say 'the competent legislative and executive bodies of the administration of all levels of BiH authorities are obliged to establish appropriate institutional mechanisms for gender equality'. What it means in the local self-government unit to establish an appropriate institutional mechanism, in a canton unit, in an entity unit, a state unit, etc.? What is an institutional mechanism, no elaborated, no defined who is obliged to do so, what deadlines, etc.? And also, the next position, which says that these ‘the competent state, entity and cantonal authorities, as well as the bodies of the units of local self-government, are obliged to forward all the regulations and other acts of their jurisdiction, before reference to the legislative procedure, to the institutional mechanisms for gender equality’. So from the municipalities, everything and one municipality, all and one decision, all and one commission, everything, means everything there is to be delivered to this agency, as I understand it, to the Gender Equality Agency and that it gives its opinion. Is that in accordance with this law or not? I think it's one flood of thousands of people thinking they're going to ask that agency whether something's in line or not. We had foreseen in this agenda the three laws that we had downloaded, too, which was initiated by the Gender Equality Agency, which.... was intended to bring these laws into line and we appreciated that if this mechanism, this technology would begin to comply with the law, that we would have here hundreds of laws at each session of harmonisation related to this law. And for that reason, I think these are questions... which will cause a lot of problems in the implementation of this law. And I think the legislator here... has in the best way not solved these things with, so, absolute support of me as an MP to bring these things to us. Is the capacity of BiH, the environment of BiH and what... we need to do, whether it is enough; and that it will make bigger problems than that we do not have this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30105	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Azra Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30106	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would actually prefer one of my comments about this percentage spoken of by my colleague, Nanić, and I would say my opinion. If the female population in a certain biological sense is proportional in terms of a 46 biology to the male population, I don't see 40% equal to 60%. On the other hand, I'd like to remind you of the so-called. The biological tree that we all know about, which is that, in fact, something more is born of male children. But given the higher mortality of male children in the adult population and in the second lifetime, it means a lifetime where work capacity and psychophysical potential are fully implemented into normal life, we have equal men and women, so actually... I actually see women discrimination here, and I don't see them stretching in one sense. If we remember the fact that in high school institutions, in secondary education we have in certain percentages, statistically proven, better results due to the development of male and female children and adolescents, young and middle and old, then actually I see this law and these changes as law of opportunity, law of activity, law of ability and law of equality in one essential sense of equality, and no law in which women are equal in some second-class or lower-rate, low-level, business etc. I really believe that the authorities' obligations to implement women's participation are something that is imperative to this society in legislative and executive power, because I believe that we have very high-quality women who, unfortunately, suffer, as I would say, are the only synthesis of men's actions. These are just their actions when it comes to stopping a high-quality woman, and in all other segments they are completely mutual in some dichotomy. I, unfortunately, have to say this is a personal experience for me, and I'm not speaking from the point of view of some of the surrounding stories, but through my education and through my positioning, so if you want to do your current work within health and education, I've experienced it. And I really think that, in some ways, space should be opened to capable women and all women, not only capable but less capable women of equal opportunities than less capable men and men. Because we're not each other's men and women, we're actually partners in life and partners in creating a good environment and life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30107	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I am pleasantly surprised by the great interest in this topic and open discussion, but at the same time I am unpleasantly surprised because everyone unanimously supported this law on all commissions. The law had no amendments, it's in the second reading, I don't think I know how much purpose there is. But let me get this straight. Replica, the honourable MP Mirjana Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30108	I'm really sorry, I think the chairman's remark is quite appropriate, but here's why he doesn't open up a debate that removes some dilemmas. I think I understand some fears from my colleague, Nanić, but I think I can remove them. First, the institutional mechanisms for gender equality exist from municipal councils, where there are gender equality commissions, legally and for a long time, which have been..., of course, both on continental and federal, or entity levels and state levels, and so far depending on the agility of those who have members of these commissions allowed them to engage in legislative procedures at their level, and today we tell them by this regulation that this is in some way their duty. 47 As for our fears that we will be engulfed by a very large number of laws that we will have to change, so I think that our maturation as a democratic society in any case requires our greater engagement in legislative activity and the adoption of regulations that need to paint time, age, state in the world, the conditions in which we live. But even when some other laws that were essential were passed, which were the starting point for some of the following laws, it is not an obligation to comply with this basic law that others were meant to do so today, tomorrow, in an instant. Therefore, we have in front of us the obligation of all future laws to take care of the application of the Gender Equality Act, and I think that's the only way to avoid the difference between deura and de facto. And as for 40%, and that's, I agree with you, for our conditions of science fiction, not because of women's incompetence but because of the entrenched perception of men, but here we are on our way and let's just help us all reach it one day together. It doesn't say a term to which it has to apply.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30109	An additional clarification is that if it did not only work, the power to look at this parliament could also change, is that so, yes. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30110	So, I think raising a healthy family, raised children of a new generation in BiH is by no means a third-rate job. And women, first of all, turn to it. And it's not equality for a man and a woman to make them compete with men in public life, it's overworking women. This colleague who's with us here in the House, they're in no way less capable of us men, even more. However, here the people estimated how many there are, which is the percentage of women who should participate, given the maturity of the Bosnian-Herzegovina society, according to Nanić. It's different, Professor, it's tending. We're supposed to be trying to do this. So, when we're mature, but this is 2009, it's not 2029. Too hastily, too hastily and too high a threshold, so political parties are asked to have 40%, among other things. Women don't have this affinity as men to deal with politics to that extent and to that extent. We did it suddenly. So I don't know if there's any sanctions against this. If there are sanctions, we will now look down at the basic law, I apologize for not doing so before; if there are sanctions, then it is a problem; if there are no sanctions, then there is really only one tendency left to achieve in the next decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30111	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30112	Dear Chairman, when it was an amendment phase, I wasn't ashamed, but I didn't want to make any amendments because you men are all silent. But here I am publicly saying that I am threatened by women on all aspects and in all fields. Let's say, let's take, let's take changes and additions to the Electoral Law and make sure that 90% of women have to be on the lists, and only 10% of men, the elections have failed. The election's going to fail, no one's going to make the election. Well, we can't change what we can't change, but we can't match the clock in this House with European time, because it's still summer time, and now it's winter time (it's 2:00 there, and now it's 1:00), and we can bring laws to be women equal with us, so they're more than equal. And as a gentleman, I pledge to have the same rights. But how can it be achieved when each of them hangs behind us, especially married to us all and everything, when they're much more equal than I am. And of course, I'm betting that my colleagues in Parliament have always more rights than I do, and I'm trying so hard and I respect you very much. But there's no act that's going to force some man, force the government, force the institution, make you get everything you want, to say today, well, you, we're half women today, but we're taking all your male rights; well, that's never going to happen, unfortunately. No, because I don't want to, because that's not possible. And I repeat, I am threatened by you, Miss, ladies and other ladies, and I am threatened in all fields and I now consider myself and I will advocate the amendments and additions to this Law on Gender Equality and Equality of Men. But it makes me uncomfortable for all of you fellow men to keep your mouth shut to court the ladies, which I do in certain places, but not in Parliament, not in Parliament, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30113	Dear Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović, discussion. Here you go. Just a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30114	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, neither after the President's intervention nor after a few insights into the text of point 8. In which he finally says that the second reading is, I do not know which reading we are in. I'd really like it if someone could explain to me whether it's a second or first reading, if there's been an error creating the agenda here. Because I think that really these discussions are illusory and that this is an example... of how we're masters of wasting time. And after a complete procedure in which there was no objection of the law coming, it is highlighted here in the second reading, and we open such debates that, in my opinion, indeed, have no purpose at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30115	Thank you. I don't have any more reports and I'm closing the debate on this law. Moving to point 9. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political parties – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01, 02-02-4-85/09, of 25. Nine. 2009 (second reading) At the 62nd House session, held on 14. 10th, this law was passed in the first reading. The financial and budgetary committee responsible has submitted Report 2. 11th and she accepted the proposed text of the law. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Here you go. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law on tobacco in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01, 02-02-2-89/09, of 30. Nine. 2009 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like, first of all, to express my satisfaction that we have today on the agenda a proposal for this law. There's more to it than that. Here, let's say, at today's session, we have 15 legislative proposals, six of which come from MPs and the other nine are just two new laws. All other changes and additions. It is also a pleasure that this proposal comes from the Council of Ministers, so with some good amount of certainty that it will be adopted. I think this bill is one of the best economic measures this parliament has taken, which will bring about in this time of economic crisis. When you just take into account the reasoning of this law, then you see what they are all benefits for the state and how the state can deal well with smart economic solutions. Here, I'm not going to read it, of course, you have it, but I just want to point out one thing, which is the protection of domestic tobacco varieties, and then protection of domestic primary production, etc., and that is what our Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has insisted for three years that, within the framework of the activity, especially this Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Council of Ministers in total, it finds appropriate and more effective measures not to protect domestic production but to stimulate domestic production, because it brings a lot of benefits to the state. Here's the benefit, let's say, of today's assessment that at the moment, about 5,000 families are ensuring the existence of tobacco production, and that with such measures, it's going to grow 50 significantly. Now I ask you: Find me a company in BiH that employs, or feeds this many people? So, with pleasure, I say again, we will accept this bill but I must express one thing, by the way, regret that this law has not come much earlier. There was no reason for this to happen long before the law appeared. I'll remind you that exactly four years ago and 10 months ago, the SDP gave a bill that, here I believe the Proposer will also conclude, that it was the basis for making this law. And here, just to point out that we're missing a very big chance with similar law-making, but in the end I want to say better than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30119	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30120	The tobacco law is done, here Jozo says, a little later, but it's better as soon as possible. We're here, and I agree with those, witnesses to the fact that we haven't, we haven't had this law that's been missing a lot, and in these past years, in fact, because of its absence, great damage has been done to our domestic primary tobacco production. But also, nothing has been done well, or even certain damage has been done to the BiH cigarette manufacturing industry, so I would also say that even if some other damage had happened due to the absence of this law. This law is done quite correctly and professionally, has its head and tail, has its own correct, true crutch, explanations, but correct and very understandable. And I personally like a part of the explanation when it comes to the reasons, i.e. the objectives that this law aims to achieve. I think it would be good to become a practice and other our laws, that is, a practice in the making of laws, that is to say in an explanation, what are the basic reasons or the most important objectives that are to be achieved through the adoption of the law. So here, I'm going to get here a little bit on these goals, or the reasons, call myself and say that I want to believe that these goals will really be met. It is therefore being talked about equating the conditions for the adjustment of primary tobacco producers throughout BiH, which is very important and important. Why domestic tobacco varieties? Because this is not exactly how I would agree to be listed in order, so “virginia”, “berle” and“ Herzegovic plane, ” but just the other way around. Why? Because one of the most authentic, perhaps, or the very authentic domestic varieties is a “herzegovic plane” that someone else wants to take away from us, not ours, but theirs. And this applies to the neighbouring Republic of Croatia and to certain parts, i.e. when we talk about countries, so to the Republic of Italy, which are already doing certain activities to protect this species as their domestic indigenous species. I think the authorities of BiH should, and after the adoption of this law, it will be the right time, to intensify the activities and to protect... this kind of tobacco as our authentic and domestic variety. Then, the goals that follow are why domestic primary tobacco production, very important and important, in recent years, even decades, in this area very little, or almost 51, so the production of tobacco actually came down to, perhaps, a few percent or a maximum of 10% to 20% of the pre-war tobacco production in the BiH area. I believe that again this law is and how it is imagined quite correctly imagined that this failure, i.e. this one, I would say, is the destruction of tobacco production in BiH and to stop again, in one way, that, here, this one goal here that stands is realised and achieved, which is to mention that a multiple increase in tobacco production is expected, or the number of tobacco producers, which is also an opportunity to employ local people and that a significant number, especially those poorer owners and families, achieve their incomes by working on their holdings, on their holdings. The fiscal importance of tobacco and tobacco processing is not to be specifically discussed. I think through this law it may be this aspect, perhaps, a little under-processed, but it can be solved through other laws. What I can now state here as defects, that's next. Perhaps a little more should have been said in this explanation of what the current state of primary tobacco production is to have a better and better quality basis for debates, although I have worked hard over the past month, and... some knowledge from this area has nevertheless explored what the situation is. It is, I will say and repeat, defeative and expect that really only after this law has been passed will it be created and... preconditions, assumptions that this changes significantly and advances. Then, what I'm going to say is that maybe we should, but that can also be changed in the second phase, so that's about the criminal provisions of this law where little in one rather unfortunate position are placed by manufacturers and because of their possible failures they can be punished by very high penalties, which is certainly necessary, in that stage when the investments of the amendment, perhaps through amendments, are corrected. I don't think we should leave unprotected manufacturers like this, who are usually not in a particularly favourable and good material situation, to come under the threat of such great penalties. Here, this is what is most important, so those basic principles, reasons and goals... this law... before me and I consider very legitimate, therefore acceptable, justified, I believe that this law will create a real assumption of one, I would say, even a new chapter in this area, so primary tobacco production, tobacco processing, tobacco product classification, etc., everything this law treats. So, my support and support for the HDZ Club of BiH is this law in its first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30121	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30122	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, when it comes to tobacco, there's always... So, on the one hand, it can be discussed, about its harmfulness and, on the other hand, it can be talked about its great benefit, and that is the financial benefit that is pronounced. And I will normally ignore this first one, because it's not the story of this law, of harmfulness, but of financial benefit. And I have to start by saying that I believe that the law is made by all... that should exist in one law that regulates this matter. It contains everything it needs, 52 among other things, and, most importantly, points of quality and concern about the quality of tobacco and the creation of institutions that will deal with its quality. I would especially point out that I was embellished here by two members who are, in fact, perhaps the most important in this law, which is a member of 32nd and 35th who speak of the percentages and obligations of the final producers, those who finalise, that they must install domestic tobacco in their products, which gives them a great opportunity for manufacturers, means guaranteeing that its product will be used, means that it creates a stimulant that it further expands its properties or its production, which means opening up opportunities for increasing jobs. And, after all, this might be one law that will certainly cheer up farmers who are already on strike here, I think, 1,500 and I don't know what day. So this law should be fully supported. Certainly, in order not to owe much, here is the only thing I am afraid of – I am afraid that we amendments do not spoil this law and that by creating too many amendments in the amendment phase, we do not bring the law to something that should not, and that is why I have applied for the discussion, especially by stressing that we as Parliament must take care of the use of our varieties in the final tobacco products and, on the other hand, because of those who spend it that we have to take care of quality. The good news, in my court, is that this law that introduced the very criminal provisions, despite my predecessor, Jukić, is afraid that these criminal provisions will not be too great for some producers. I think the criminal provisions are very important, because we, who we are, by nature, everything where there's no punishment, we don't do it. And therefore, to conclude, I alleviately support this law as a quality law, as a European law, a law that should be passed by this council, and I have no doubt that we will not adopt it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30123	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30124	I thank you, Chairman. So, not to say again, it's a good thing this law has really been found in front of the MPs here in this house. So, me, while the minister is here, I think some things here in this law might have been a little bit more specific. Like. in Article 3, when it comes to the role of the Council of Ministers in this area when the Council of Ministers adopts development measures and economic policies for domestic production under the regulations and acts governing the promotion of agricultural production, primarily the Agricultural, Food and Food Act, etc. So here it might have been a little bit better this sentence, this thought to finish. And when it comes to this Article 5. (the meaning of certain expressions in the law), I also think that even more precisely these terms and individual meanings could be even better and clearer. Basically, this law is a good solution. And finally, let me point out, therefore, what is important is to note where it stands, when it comes to the reasoning of this law, the appointed representatives of the entity ministries of agriculture and Brcko District and the Ministry of Foreign Trade, etc., and says 'the present representatives of the entity, Brcko District, the ministries in this area have agreed on the proposal for the text of this law'. So that's one 53 good thing that this bill has been agreed on at all levels and in such a way we have one such positive example of harmonising certain legal solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30125	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30126	Dear Chairman, I will not repeat what the distinguished colleagues have said, but the most important things in this bill's proposal are what Professor Ajanović and Mr Jukić stressed, i.e. this economic benefit. I want to meet this home that this law has both quality and that, in my opinion, it's good and here's a reason. The world's strongest company, Filip Moris, has on several occasions sought talks with me as chairman of this commission. And, of course, I didn't want to accept it, because I don't like any secret conversations, but in agreement with all the members of the Commission, an hour before the Commission's session - so we didn't give them the opportunity to participate, nor can we participate, but let's see what they want - we received them for the interview. Their basic remarks, not lobbying anything, nothing to do with associations of various kinds.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30127	A little, just a minute, let's hear this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30128	Everyone here was respected colleagues, all members of this committee, and they had, imagine, objections to this law. We listened to them. I told them: This Parliament, as I have always said, is open for all 24 hours, we want to talk to everyone but no one will influence us or any coercion for us to succumb to someone's demands so that they will benefit economically. And, here's a colleague, and I quote a sentence that I always say, "I understand your interests but I protect the interests of this country, and so we'll go on if you want to talk, listen to what we've talked about, we'll listen to you." So, to go back, they found the law on the site, because they didn't get it from me, they didn't ask for it, and when they made comments on these 50% protection rates, that they had to take our varieties from cigarette production, I just now see that this is the ministry, and that you're not saying that I'm just praising the minister, made a great law. Because if they hadn't had any objections, if they'd said this was good, I'd say it's no good right now. As soon as they, therefore, under alleged signs, foreigners, but it's clear to me that they came, they look at their economic interest. They don't care how much production and how much we're going to install. But we, too, have made it clear to all of us on this committee that the economic interest of our producers is more important, our people who will be hired, and finally, also to the Members themselves, because there will be more money in the budget, so they will not be chasing us to constantly reduce, but perhaps increase something. So you gentlemen know that tomorrow when it comes out of the paper somewhere that I wasn't sitting alone with them, or when I'm sitting. And I want every 54 conversations recorded, because it looks like the tobacco industry has moved on to estrange. So whoever followed it, there is Jelena Karleuša threatens me, and every living one. But, well, that's our position. So, I want you all to know, if there's a text coming out that you know right away that I've never sat with anyone, and I just took it out as evidence at the Commission's session... and I said it wasn't from you -- here's a stamp, 3.5 stamps cost. Until five days ago, I was paying 3.10, and that was a malfeasance, but by ours, not by them. So, I want to tell you that this law is good and that we released it in our first reading because it will bring great economic benefits to which colleagues spoke. Professor Ajanović, of course, didn't speak, he wasn't a smoker, and I'm saying, now I'm pushing this because I'm in the interest of who I'm not going to say we're living from this, don't let Bog live, it's harmful, we're not going to talk about these aspects. So, gentlemen, I want to point out one more time -- I don't want any affair, like I said I didn't sweeten sugar, and I don't want this to make my life miserable, and I don't want anyone to respect me, to write what they want. I'm telling you in public, I've never taken a brand from anyone, I don't want a cigar, especially a box. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30129	I hope you're aware that by waving a cigar you just advertised a product, that you said there was pressure on the members of the Commission by foreign companies etc. And that all these, although in a funny way, things said have great meaning if you took them seriously. So we'll get over it. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30130	I would've believed all Slavuj colleagues if they hadn't advertised Filip Moris's product. You advertised, now you've taken out their product.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30131	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30132	No, it's not, so read it. I thought I trusted you. Now we're in trouble.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30133	Dear Ambassador Salko Sokolović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's get this situation serious about what Slavko was talking about. So he did not agree with the members of the Commission to call the meeting, because me and Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović were. First, we didn't know what the meeting was called for and during the meeting we found out what it was called for and we were to say that he was interrupted and we interrupted him in the end. And here, I wanted Slavko to warn you, and then in some funny way, he was trying to say something, and here he is today, advertising these cigarettes. I don't think we should fall into that trap. 55 And here, when I have already taken my word, to say that probably all MPs during this amendment phase will be pressured, not only by this company, but by all those who import cigarettes into this area to stop or change this law in a way that it is not of this quality as it is at this moment. [[Common discussion]] Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30136	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30137	Therefore, we should be aware of this, guard against these lobbyings, and truly act in such a way that we consider this law a law that will protect domestic production and will open up a large factory, which Mr Križanović had just spoken of, and thus economically strengthen BiH. But I don't think we should even joke about it this way, because if we joke, then I'll take out Drina, because I'm smoking, whether or not, let it be the opposite of what Slavko was talking about earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30138	Now Slavko has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30139	First, it's a replica to you, Mr. Chairman. No Niko's been pressured. It was a correct conversation. I'm in for a chat, let's get this straight. The other thing is, I didn't advertise cigarettes here, and I don't do that, I just took it out for the price. So, that the indirect tax administration put those stamps in five days ago, and you know when we passed the Excise Act, and now, how many of our domestic thieves bought on the team, until this came into effect, you can imagine how much they got rich. So that was the point, not to advertise cigarettes. I wish I didn't smoke, but that's the situation and good. And what Mr. Sokolović said is true. But right out of these, in order for some in public insinuation not to appear later, I will never accept that I'm talking to anyone. People were looking, it was legitimate, it was legal to come and I said no at the bar, not at your company, not in your... come to Parliament where all my colleagues will be present so they can hear what you're looking for. So there was no pressure, correct conversation. We listened to them, we didn't appreciate anything, we stopped talking, we apologized nicely, goodbye, Allahimanet, bye, it's over. We're passing the law, not them. So let's be perfectly clear what this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30140	The second vice-president, Replic, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30141	You see, Mr. Jovičić, even though I have a special sympathy for you, I must tell you that you have now come into a situation, not caused by anything, you have come to a very specific situation, i.e. It's an awkward situation. There's no Allahimanet, hi, you've just opened up, so there's no end to this story now. Rest assured, there's no end to this story. So, I'm very well-intentioned and I understand what you wanted to say, but make sure you open one process and that the end of the story won't be. No Allahimanet, you said what you said you were lobbying, that this, what, and now there are hundreds of guesses, stories, gone, gone, you let the spirit out of... That is, therefore, a kind of lesson for the future. So people always have no intention of understanding what you're talking about. The only way out is to pass the law today in both the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30142	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30143	Oh, I'll be very brief, too. Part of what I was going to say was taken from me by the vice president, Mr. Belkić. I've been trying all this time to figure out Mr. Jovičić, in fact, what he is, and that I finally realized that he was talking to someone, I don't know either, and I shouldn't have known that he was talking to him. So I didn't even ask to know if he was talking to anyone about this matter or not. It's normal for me if you did talk. I don't see what the problem is to talk to everyone. What I have to say is, I don't think we should be making praises about this law, because I've spoken to tobacco companies and it's not all this nice, Mr. Jovičić, and this law didn't exactly protect our producers to get this up to that level. After all, we'll see through the amendment phase whether... it's all like this or not. Of course, I understand your motives to praise all the laws proposed by the SNSD ministers and that's clear to me, and I accept that as a model and a way of working, but there are many objections to this law. I repeat, no, we talked here when we talked about protecting domestic production, so when we talked about excises, we didn't think the same way about protecting domestic producers. And we know how much the Excise Act has cost domestic tobacco producers. And this attempt to help through this little bit or restore what was done to them by the Excise Act is an attempt. How successful, we'll see. So I suggest, indeed, the chairman, that we take this debate seriously and simply use a break – this is what you informed us about in the middle of the day – and that after this, we discuss this and that we are really only discussing the law, not lobbying and something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30144	I don't know if it's a criticism to me. I was trying to get her serious in a way that I warned the MP that she understood the seriousness of the words she was saying here and then the other five MPs, who replicated, were in the same background, and we're doing serious things in a serious way. Even in a funny way, the echo remains here. 57 Since at 13.30 we said break because we have a commitment to the Belgian Parliament and lunch, which we host, I hereby interrupt the debate at this level, but we will continue it at 15.00 hours when the break is over. Thank you. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30145	We will continue and be joined by colleagues (with the Belgijanac) not to waste any time. We've got a lot of work to do. So like this, Mehmed Suljkanović missed the discussion, Azra Alajbegović missed the discussion, Slavko Matić missed the discussion. Replice Lazar Prodanović, also missed, and has Željko Kuzmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30146	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30147	He's giving up. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point, so the point of the tobacco bill. We are going to the next item of the agenda of the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political parties – the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30148	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30149	Wait a minute, I'm sorry, just a minute. So the next item of the agenda is: 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Missing Persons Act – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, Act No: 01,02-02-3-77/09, of 8. Nine. 2009 (first reading) It's about the law in first reading. We already took it off once. 58 So, I am opening, at the request of the Commission, of course, I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Missing Persons Act. You're welcome to sign up. mehmede, are you applying to discuss this? Get off the screen, Slavko Matić and You. There are no reports, I'm concluding a debate on this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't want much about the law, I'll do more about the Constitutional Commission's opinion, given that today we are actually having a debate and on the agenda we have the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission which I, of course, cannot agree with. First, I cannot agree as a member of the Constitutional Commission, and then I cannot agree either as a legislator. Why can't I agree? The finding that there is no valid constitutional basis for the law... which the Constitution, therefore the whole of Article VI, is, let's say, a gift, namely Article VI of the Constitution is just talking about the Constitutional Court and it is not possible that the law that speaks of it is unconstitutional. There may be some solutions in the law that are not acceptable, that some principles for some colleagues are not acceptable, and that is not disputed, but that the law does not have constitutional basis, that is extreme, I think it is not logical, extremely illogical. And especially, given that we voted in the Constitutional Legal Commission very often constitutional basis for some laws where in the Constitution, let's say, let's say, the least we could say, invent, in a way, as active explanations of the Constitution, here, which provides a constitutional basis for that solution. 59 I will take it now and read the letter of the Constitutional Court, or the Constitutional Court's reply to Mr. Živković's parliamentary question. And to say the relationship of the Constitutional Court to both this and all other questions. So he says, Mr. Živković asked the Constitutional Court question, they said they were not other entities, because there it was told to the Council of Ministers, and I don't know who can be asked all questions about our rules of procedure, including other entities. And then they said, "The Constitutional Court is independent, independent of other authorities in BiH. No body in BiH can pass laws and regulations or general acts concerning the work of the Constitutional Court." Therefore, the Constitutional Court considers that no body, nor can the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH pass laws concerning the work of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the jurisdiction of the BiH Constitutional Court and its rights and obligations, including the obligation to other BiH institutions, are regulated solely by the constitution. I have to say it's not true. In many countries or in most countries it is regulated by law. Not entering whether it's constitutional law or ordinary law, so I'm not talking about it right now, means whether that law should be passed by a two-thirds or a simple majority, but these issues are regulated in many countries. Of course, this only says that there is one means an institution that in no way allows it to get close to it. This Parliament has reached a conclusion, that is, this House of Representatives has reached its conclusion and has commissioned the Constitutional Legal Commission to open in some way a debate on the law on the Constitutional Court, i.e. a draft law on the Constitutional Court. And that's not what the Constitutional Commission did. So the Constitutional Commission didn't deal with this issue seriously. And because she wasn't into it, I proposed this law. If the Constitutional Commission had dealt with it, it might have come up with a bill or not, and I probably wouldn't be in a position to ask the predstavnički of Representatives to hold a debate about it because it would have a clear view of the Constitutional Commission. This way, since it didn't happen, I, here, went with this law. I can, I could really ask some questions right now. How is it possible that a timely High Representative has formed an Interresor Working Group in which representatives of the Constitutional Court of BiH have worked, if the issue, as the President of the Court says here, cannot be regulated by law? Why did we work for a few months on this issue if it was known in advance that our work was not worth anything and that we couldn't do it? So there's a possibility that this issue can be solved, the matter is willful. It is not true that this law has no constitutional basis, the law has a constitutional basis. So it has a constitutional basis, it's a member of the VI Constitution. The solutions found in this law can be acceptable or not acceptable, that's another question, and that's a matter of principle. The Constitutional Commission could not vote on the principles of this law and I couldn't discuss it this way because... I would find it to a significant extent that some colleagues could... replicate. This is the question, therefore, of the constitutional basis. As a legislator, I propose to Parliament, or the House, not to accept the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is not given by this law as a constitutional basis, that it be returned to this commission and that the Constitutional Commission has in mind the fact that a whole chapter of the Constitution is given to the Constitutional Court, and that this law has a constitutional basis and that we enter into a debate on the principles of law. It's interesting that, let's say, here's one provision of a law that provides for a Council for the Protection of Vital Interest. In fact, the mechanism is envisaged in case a member of the law is not accepted, saying that at least one judge from every nation should vote for each decision, which I can understand and that it can be problematic. And in the event that this method of voting is not accepted, 60 I have provided for a version of the Council for the Protection of Vital National Interest, which has no foreign members. I appreciate that it is not possible for foreign judges to understand this institute of protection of vital national interest better than ours. And that's why I predicted six, in that six-member council, three from every nation, who decide on vital national interest. We had several cases when the Constitutional Court decided, in particular I think it was the launch of questions related to the laws on education, secondary education, the RTS system, etc., where they decided on vital national interest, among other things, and three foreign judges that I am more than sure that this mechanism is not sufficiently understood. And that was my motive, which is why I suggested that a council be formed within the Constitutional Court that would only deal with this issue and which could certainly be more adequate to respond to such dilemmas that could later have political and not only political but also other consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30154	Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30155	The draft law on the BiH Constitutional Court delivered by counterpart Novaković is clearly contrary to aneks iv.e. The Dayton Peace Agreement, with the Constitution of BiH, is more specifically with Article VI. Therefore, even before considering the content of this law, it may be the best solution for counterpart Novaković to withdraw this law from the procedure. There are numerous examples that point to this law, Article 9, Article 10, 11. etc. Here's just one example, let's say, in the proposal submitted, it says, "Only a citizen of BiH can be chosen for the judge of the Constitutional Court." It is a proposal, therefore, a proposal for a solution in this law. On the other hand, the Constitution of BiH states: "The judges elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights will not be citizens of BiH or any neighbouring country." A similar situation is with other provisions in this law. So for starters, I really propose that this law be fully withdrawn from the procedure, because it is contrary to the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30156	I believe Mr. Novaković heard you. Let's move on. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30157	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, you have received a report from the Constitutional Commission and have received, not on this occasion but on the other occasion, a letter from the President of the Constitutional Court, which was called upon by a respected colleague, Novaković, the legislator of this law. I want to connect those two things. The Constitutional Commission report states that the law is not adopted because the provisions of this law, some of the provisions of this law, are directly contrary to the Constitution of BiH, or Article VI. The BiH Constitution. And from the letter of the President of the Constitutional Court of BiH, I say, on some other occasion, not on this occasion, it is stated under the Constitution of BiH: The Constitutional Court is the only one who can prescribe the rules of his work, that is to say, to adopt the rules and the quorum is prescribed there, that is the majority of all the members of the Court, and the rules are adopted by the Constitutional Court. 61 Therefore, our Constitutional Court in the constitutional system as it is and cannot be different, there must be foreigners in it, there must be a quorum in it, and it must be written that it makes procedures or rules for its work for the majority of its members. Because if it weren't for that, this country would be completely blocked by the law. If the law proposed by counterpart Novaković had been in force, this state would never have seen the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people, ever. And it is no accident that such a constitutional system is placed in the constitutional position of the Constitutional Court. When we change the Constitution, when we remove all possible blockades from the functioning of BiH, it is possible then to talk about a different concept of the Constitutional Court. But to keep all constitutional provisions as they are, and to change from that package what applies to the Constitutional Court, contrary to the very provision of the Constitution that states that the Constitutional Court itself prescribes its own rules – is something that can lead this country into a complete blockade. I, too, told my colleague Novaković on the Constitutional Commission that this is as important a matter for me as the debate, for example. on the internal organisation of BiH, an equally important issue. The Constitutional Court can only be set up to represent one window through which BiH institutions, parliament, so first of all, can either exit the possible blockades that are otherwise envisaged and incorporated into BiH's constitutional system. And that's why the Constitutional Commission report is the way it is. Because, first of all, it is not possible to pass such a law because it prescribes the rules of the Constitutional Court, it also prohibits the Constitution, because it is not the work of Parliament, it is the work of the Constitutional Court. If we want to do what we want to do, then let's change the Constitution and change that constitutional norm, and then pass the law, because now according to the Constitution, that's what the Constitutional Court should do. Second, foreigners, this is how foreign judges are excluded from the work of the BiH Constitutional Court. Judges appointed by the President of the European Court of Human Rights, as top legal experts, represent the appropriate type of assistance and balance for BiH in the structure it is and in the constitutional court structure it is set up to function. The third thing, an ethnic principle is introduced in the Constitutional Court vote, which is totally unacceptable and is not an appropriate comparison or comparison with what we have at the entity level, because things are completely different when it comes to entities and the state of BiH. You can't take from one part what suits you and not take what doesn't fit, and from the other part vice versa. So this is a very serious topic, this is a very serious law, and I said, I say to my colleague Novaković, what is the significance, in my opinion, and, of course, the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission could not have been any different than it is. And I propose to Parliament that if a colleague does not withdraw this law, which is proposed by counterpart Bećirović, Parliament should respect the Constitutional Commission's report and that way we finish our work on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30158	Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30159	I thank you, Mr. President. I must say, for justified reasons, for maintaining the Parliament, I have not been to this session of the Constitutional Commission. And here, let me, by respecting the decision of the Constitutional Commission that was taken as it is, to briefly comment on the very important things that are here in this debate open. And this is the attitude of the legislative and judicial authority, that is, the position of Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as the Supreme Legislative Body in this country and the Constitutional Court 62 as the final authority in interpreting the country's constitutional provisions. And right away, I'm not prone to rapid changes or rapid assessments when it comes to the Constitutional Court and its position, and that's one of the reasons why individual initiatives as correct, positive and positive as they are in principle, can't be supported, because I think this needs to be dealt with much more thoroughly. But, let me, it can't stand in the opinion of the Constitutional Commission not to lay constitutional ground for this law. Because of Article VI. which defines the BiH Constitutional Court in Annex IV. The BiH Constitution in point d) says, so I will read: "For the appointment of judges after five years of the first appointment, the Parliamentary Assembly can by law establish a different way of electing three judges." So, the Constitution itself prescribes an opportunity for Parliament to change this position. And I don't think that's in favor of the Constitutional Commission's position and I don't think that the position from the... constitutional position can stay this way because of correctness. The second thing is that I also believe that this second position of the Constitutional Commission stands, that this law is not in line with the Constitution as a whole as it should be. And so it was supposed to be... but, well, if it means anything, it could stand out as my opinion personally or Martin Raguž's opinion as an agent on this issue. The other thing is very important, beware, Parliament is changing the Constitution, not the law. So don't let us underestimate our role alone as... finally the supreme body that two-thirds can change or bring a new constitution. So what are we talking about? And let us pray for some provisions concerning some BiH institutions. The second is what the law will be, that is, what solutions will be made to the Constitutional Court. Here, that's why I answered my word, and otherwise I don't think we're mature, no, we're not mature, we're not prepared enough for a serious debate about the Constitutional Court and its role and the way of choice. And here, if any conclusion can go is that the Constitutional Committee is organising a public debate on this subject, so we'll see how far along the way at all, but I think at this point really, with all due respect, Mr. Novaković's initiatives are not mature circumstances for the adoption of such a law. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30160	Replica, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30161	Mr. Chairman, therefore, the Constitutional Legal Commission, with four votes "for" and no "abstained" votes,... so with two votes "yes", four votes "against" and no "abstained", decided there was no valid constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. And two, that the bill does not comply with the BiH Constitution and the legal system. If you have almost two-thirds of the provisions in the law which refer to the procedure of the Constitutional Court and the rules of the Constitutional Court, and it has been said that it is the work of the Constitutional Court to determine, then you cannot say, regardless of what is possible, that Parliament can pass a law on the Constitutional Court. There is, after all, a colleague, Raguž, right to say that he has a provision around foreign judges, that Parliament will by its decision decide by law. However, the content of this law is such that it contains solutions that are contrary to the BiH Constitution and we have been obliged, at least to vote for this, to point to the matter. So that's one thing. 63 And secondly, this says that Parliament is changing the Constitution, but yet we are not talking about the Constitution now. There are different procedures, let's change the Constitution and then we'll do it. But let's not, let's not argue about something that's against the constitutional argument that we have the opportunity to change the Constitution, of course, because it's two separate and different procedures. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30162	Replica, Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30163	Thank you. It's very short. So I also said that I believe that this bill does not comply with the Constitution and that this part of the Constitutional Commission report should remain. But I don't know who the replica was referring to, Mr. Džaferović, if you, despite what I said and you confirm that I'm right, still think there's no constitutional basis for this. And I don't think that part of the Constitutional Commission report can be left with anything else. I think that the Constitution itself says that Parliament can legally amend the provisions concerning..., we do not need that kind of formulation in the report of the Constitutional Commission as the Supreme Commission of this House in interpreting the Constitution and dealing with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30164	Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30165	So since this is really a very sensitive topic and this could be talked about for a long time and with it open a lot of other things, I don't think it... should, but that it is important and that we will deal with this in the next period. I'm not going to speak now, given that I told the Constitutional Commission and I won't, just not wanting to complicate things, add one fact to this whole situation that is. These four votes are four Bošnjak, it's complicated, and it's further saying that... it's not that simple and that, in addition to all these arguments, yes then, because I have to say that because there's often we've been accused of voting, I don't know either ethnically, entityically, like this, here, you see the situation here that you have the views of members of the Constitutional Commission who consider there to be a constitutional basis, and that we have a situation in this commission in which four members from one nation, besides the obvious arguments, say there is no constitutional basis. It's too complicated to be this simple.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30166	We're going back to the public for discussion. Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30167	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, all those arguments made by Mr. Raguž, in fact, I will make the same arguments but on the opposite side. In this parliament, otherwise, in BiH everyone wants the interpretations of the Constitution and that they are intact. The Constitutional Court Act can be amended constitutionally, but some of the pieces proposed in this law cannot be changed until the BiH Constitution is changed. Article VI cannot be amended. and indent b) in 64 which explicitly says that there are three judges from foreign states, and that they are not in neighbouring countries. Until the Constitution changes, it can't change. And this article, in fact, is about the indent of the same article VI. d) As Mr. Raguž speaks of, he only speaks of these judges being able to choose differently. So it doesn't have to be elected by the President, as it stands, of the European Parliament, but it can also be elected by this parliament if we change it by law, but still have to be foreigners and still have to be from countries that are not neighbouring countries. And that's the difference in the interpretation of certain people... for certain constitutional solutions. Therefore, if we were to argue about this by dawn, the only way out is either to withdraw this law or to reject this law or to send an interpretation and demand the opinion of the Constitutional Court: is it right that what it says and how we interpret and after that interpretation could only... both of us actually know who is right. I'm a supporter, as a member of the Constitutional Commission, and it's my thinking that I can't change the party until this country's constitution changes, actually this member of the VI. And the choice of these foreigners, the three men they're talking about, he can change the way they choose. So we don't have to ask some foreigners to choose them, but we can choose them, too, but this law that's proposed doesn't stand that way. And that's why I don't think this law has a constitutional basis.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30168	Replica, Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30169	Well, you see, I neither consider myself supreme nor any other authority, nor did I say that, I expressed my opinion as a member of the Constitutional Commission and as a representative, Mr Ajanović. That's the first thing. The second thing, I have not said in any word that we should go to international judges or that we should change that way, I have spoken of the fundamental right of the Parliamentary Assembly that this Constitution has prescribed, and even Article VI. d) that it can regulate some issues concerning the Constitutional Court by law. And you can't argue that, I mean, I was talking about it. And that is something that we, as members of the Constitutional Commission, should never dispute because of the role of this Parliament. Nothing more, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30170	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30171	Well, it's pretty clear that we have different visions about this, and I don't think we should elaborate now, but I'm going back to that initial part, too. Comrade Ajanović, here's what Mr. Raguž was talking about, here's the second part we disagree on, here's the party and I don't know either. Does this mean that any regulations relating to the Constitutional Court in the coming period cannot be suggested by anyone, anything related to the Constitutional Court? Here, let's leave the judges to the outsiders, let's put them on, give them some medals, so they can stand there, and we'll put in law that on the Constitutional Court building, does that mean there's no constitutional basis? That's what this is about. So here's 65 you said there's a constitutional basis, but this can't be for those and for those reasons, or, I don't know which one, I could accept, but there's no constitutional basis for that on the Constitutional Court, that's one, I don't know what to call that position. Now we've taken the law to treat the hardest thing that we disagree about the most. But you do have about the Constitutional Court a dozen other things, a lot of easier topics about the Constitutional Court where any of the MPs can propose tomorrow to do it, ways of communication, I don't know, or anything else. But if there is no constitutional basis, and you have a constitutional basis if you look at the work of the Constitutional Commission where we have all said about things that have a constitutional basis that has never been mentioned in the BiH Constitution and have nothing to do with the BiH Constitution. Well, here, then we're not even close to having some kind of consistent attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30172	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30173	I have only one thing to replicate, drag Kalabić, is that here today is in the debate of the draft law on the BiH Constitutional Court, the proposal. And we're talking about such a proposal that there's no constitutional basis, and we didn't say anywhere that any other proposal... could have a constitutional basis. The very fact that the law states that they are chosen in a different way and that they are automatically deleted by foreign judges, it has no constitutional basis. That's one thing. And the other thing, anyway, on that day, the moment the entities are abolished, it certainly won't take strangers to this country and there won't be any problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30174	Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić. I hope you don't continue in this style. [[Common discussion]] All right, all right, let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30176	Mr. Chairman and dear colleagues, I would like to say before I start talking about what's on the agenda today that I really like this session of Parliament today, I think this is one of the most productive, no matter what we have different opinions. It is normal to have different opinions in Parliament, but I think there is a debate in a nice atmosphere. And I'd like to continue and end up in such an atmosphere. _________(?) 66 [[no microphone turned on]] It's creative. As far as this law is concerned, I really appreciate a colleague of Novaković who has a lot of initiatives, enough, and it is good, and I have proposed some laws, and it is good that MPs have initiatives. As far as this law is concerned, I think this is a very complicated matter, this is matter, I think, for experts, even in this room, I think there may be a few people who can speak qualifiedly, that I don't offend others. Let's just say I don't think I can talk qualifiedly about it, but here we are all MPs, so we're in a position, as my colleague Kalabić would say, that we are giving the last word on this. I am a member of the Constitutional Commission and I voted against the constitutional basis and because of all these things that were said before I have an obligation to say why I was against it. I said I wasn't an expert, but I used some analogy. Now look what I used. Article I. The Constitution of BiH has its sastav, meaning Article I. Article 3. The BiH Constitution says the Constitution. 'Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of two entities: the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska (hereinafter referred to as entities).' Article VI in paragraph 1, there is a composition. Article VI The Constitution is the Constitutional Court, position one is the sastav. And I think these two things are completely evenly put in place and says in the Constitution: 'The BiH Constitutional Court has nine members', etc. If by law now, I've figured it out, they're changing Article VI. The constitution, then, could also be proposed by law tomorrow to amend Article I of the Constitution by law, completely analoguely, and then we would have a problem. And that's why I felt that neither law could be solved by any other law but only by amending the Constitution. And that's why I voted against constitutional ground and I don't think I was wrong. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30178	We'll see about that. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Is it a replica? [[Common discussion]] Did he have two replicas? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30181	Here, we have a bill that many have said is extremely complicated, that it's for experts, that it's for experts who deal with the area, so they're called experts, and that it shouldn't be run, etc. What's that supposed to mean? What is meant to be said is that what one party does not correspond cannot get 67 or pass on the Constitutional Commission, under such an excuse that there is no constitutional basis, which is certainly, at least, transparently, because everything is being talked about and can be talked about, and it cannot be said that there is no valid constitutional basis, because it is something that is obvious. Here, I say, if we were to question the Constitutional Court, which we are discussing, that the Constitutional Court should be so serious and say that this has a valid constitutional basis. But good. So it's something the Constitutional Commission took for granted, because it probably doesn't want a law like this to go into procedure. If this is complicated and this is what experts need to do, here's what I'll do. But let's give the experts a chance to work on this. So let us put into the procedure the law that you can – it does not have to experience fate in the first reading positive, or in the second – perhaps if it goes through in the first reading, but it will be discussed and we may draw certain conclusions that experts need to make such a law, not an MP, and that they create a new law that certainly does not suit someone and that would bring perhaps a solution to BiH after a few years and already... far more than 10 years of independent work, under quotes, there are domestic people in their institutions after the war. If we do not have it, then we are simply throwing dust in our eyes to ourselves and to all citizens and to all those who want to listen to us about joining the EU and here is some other European integration. I think that this is how we're not going to do it, and yet this concludes that everything that the entity majority in RS does not support is destruction, and that's what's called against BiH, and all that's from another entity, here's to say, knock it down, then it's positive for BiH, because it probably suits them. I am in principle about letting everything go in, here's to say, optics, or parliamentary procedures, and through the debate, it comes to whether this text of the law is right, whether it can be improved in the amendment phase or not, or whether it needs to be completely rejected, and whether someone new sits down and makes a new text proposal. And everything else, if we don't do it, is then preventing something that should come up no matter how much we know it might produce some kind of fruit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30182	Replica, chairman of Mr. Živković. The man has a feeling he's in Butmir. We've got 21 more points on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30183	Thank you. In fact, through the replica, I would like to give my opinion on the constitutional basis of this law and also make an observation to the motionary. Namely, Article VI under 'd' To appoint more than five years after the original appointment of judges, the Parliamentary Assembly can by law provide for a different way of selecting the three judges elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights." By citing this member in the preamble other than IV 4.a, BiH was able to give and meet MPs who are still the basis for the adoption of this law. By reading this basis, I told all those who feel that there is no constitutional basis for having a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law and that the Parliamentary Assembly should pass the law. The other thing is that someone disagrees whether it's necessary or not to be done, but the constitutional basis exists, I read 68 of it. The fact that members of the Constitutional Court want to have three, to arrange their own, to say, for their work, to have rules and rules where they can work on three colleges, to receive 12.5 thousand marks, to carry the items home, not to come to work and to continue working in this country in the way they think they do and that no one in this country has the right to determine the way the Constitutional Court should act, that's a completely different story, and we can also talk about it. I believe that this Parliament should also talk about it, because it is obvious that some others must not speak their mind about it. If anything, this parliament asks the Constitutional Court whether the bill is in line with the BiH Constitution, and if they were in conflict of interest to discuss it. But here, I think I've listed a member with a constitutional basis, made an observation and suggested why he didn't put that member in the preamble, because that would avoid these ambiguities. Thank you. /Shortly severed connection/ Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'll do it very briefly. I think there's been a lot of discussion, so I'm going to try to replicate some colleagues. First of all, the chairman, given that the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law in the first sentence: I have stated that the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law is contained in the provisions of Article VI 1d) of the BiH Constitution. So it's written as a constitutional basis and I've just called myself, meaning on that constitutional basis. So there is a constitutional basis for this law and I have called on Article VI 1.d). And that's why... I have to tell my colleague, Denis Bećirović, it means that it is this Article VI 1d that gives the right to propose the law. I can also give Mr Ajanović the answer to this advanced interpretation of the article d. In fact, how is it possible for us to pass the law if there is no constitutional basis? hajati on, here's where you think it's true that it's supposed to be foreigners and that it's not the European Court that needs someone else to appoint them, that's who we need to say. But we can't pass the law because there's no constitutional basis. Here, you're saying he doesn't have a constitutional basis. So there's no other way than by law, and you say the law has no constitutional basis because it says what it says. So it's not possible in such a way to defend the position of why we're against this. I understand why we are, why some colleagues aren't up for this. And that's not even controversial. Look, these are different attitudes and different thoughts on this issue. It doesn't matter which is advanced, which is backwards. So it is true, Mr. Džaferović, that the court regulates its organisation's rules of procedure. Well, this law suggests it, too. Article 2 of this Law also proposes that the Constitutional Court guarantees... and the application of the Constitution and its activity is based on the provisions of the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Constitutional Court. So no one has taken the Constitutional Court's right to define relations within the Constitutional Court by their rules of procedure. The way he brings it is the same in the Constitution and it's the same in this law here that I suggested. And that's why I can't agree with these arguments. They may agree that principles are not acceptable, but that there is no constitutional basis, it is extremely incorrect. It's extremely incorrect on this subject. No, of course, to me as a promoter, it's just the work that we're talking about. And neither did I, Mr. Raguž, that individuals, as individuals, take over the role of 69 that I can propose such laws, of course. If we had opened this issue to the Constitutional Commission, as this House of Representatives asked the Constitutional Commission, so that we had opened a debate on this issue, so that we would have come to this debate today, we would not have this debate. That debate would be over on this committee with no one. Maybe we could invite experts, minis some round table, people from the Constitutional Court, judges, etc., etc. And this question ends. This, I said at the outset, is a reaction to non-action, meaning no action by the Constitutional Legal Commission upon the conclusion of the House of Representatives. That's essential. Of course, about the creativity of fellow Adem in equating these two attitudes, I wouldn't really discuss it at all, because here I am not competent to interpret this creativity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30186	Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30187	My kolega Novaković, I mean, it's clear that everything is clear, things are completely clear. I mean, it's just too serious, it's almost not worth discussing. I told you that this is just as important to me as the issue of BiH's internal organisation, you must know what kind of attention I will pay not to let this pass. I mean, therefore, the point is that. The only reason why the existing state of the BiH Constitution has a constitutional basis is for a law which, if deemed necessary, the Parliamentary Assembly would determine differently the selection of three foreigners elected by the European Court of Human Rights. She hasn't done it yet, she stays this system because it's said she can. So that's the only constitutional basis for it. There is no constitutional basis for anything else when it comes to the BiH Constitutional Court and the law, because it says the rules are passed by the BiH Constitutional Court. This law, proposed by counterpart Novaković, deals only in one part with this issue that can otherwise be treated, if the BiH Parliament assesses, all else is an issue that is outside the law. That's why the law is unconstitutional, which is why the law has no constitutional basis. So that's the essence of this whole thing. The other thing is if we change the Constitution. Once we change the constitution, we will see what structure BiH will have, and what will become, and then we will see what will be the Constitutional Court. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30188	Thank you. Velimir Jukić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30189	Here, I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission, I wasn't at this session when this was discussed and adopted, so I'll just say a few of my thoughts and views first of all about this opinion, and I have to say that I don't agree with this opinion, therefore, with the first 70 views that say that there is no valid constitutional basis. So it exists and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is competent, and it says in the Constitution, to pass such a law. This second part, which says the bill, therefore, solutions in this law that are not in line with the BiH Constitution and the legal system, absolutely agree. So the solutions are not in line with the constitutional justice system, but the constitutional basis for the adoption of such a law exists. So the law that would regulate this. The issue of the BiH Constitutional Court is an extremely important issue. And I will now say a particularly important question here for the Croatian people in BiH. Why? Because only the Croatian people in BiH in this structure, the way the decision is valid, which is in force, is trying to protect their vital rights as a collectiveity through the Constitutional Court. In the last term there were three calls for vital interest, two of which were rejected, one respected, and now it's very interesting to comment on what was therefore... a fact. Every time the judges come forward and don't say it, we are, so it's how it's voted, but when you finally see it, the results show, it's clear that the judges of the Croatian people have been overvoted every time. So each time they decided to counter their will, they countered their attitudes that were very high-quality and explained. And very interestingly, we say, or we close our eyes in front of that fact, we don't want to see it. Well, look, the facts are persistent, no matter how many we deny them, they remain facts. And someone's thinking and plans are just thinking and planning. Some of these, sometimes wicked, come true. But we can't deny the facts. And that's why some people here welcome everything that reminds them of having some of the sounds of ethnic and national: where are you going to do that, it's a subject we can't even mention! And then, of course, in that idea of thinking and plans, etc., it's thought that it shouldn't exist, as it should, I don't know, how to treat it, etc. If I didn't go wider, and here's the elaborate, or putting out my views, I think this is an extremely important question, and that the committee in charge didn't do it properly. In a correct way, in terms of your opinion, which is not correct or correct. And secondly, neither in terms of access to this issue. Of course, someone thinks in advance that there's no way of passing through, so they treat him that way, but it's not step-by-step. The important question is, this is an important question, to be properly and responsibly, no matter how much there is a chance of this being realized, to go through, etc. If that had been done, this report would not have been an opinion in this report so incorrectly and incorrectly, but would have been correct, correct, regardless of what the end result might have been.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30190	Thank you. Drago Kalabić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30191	I will have to use the discussion again to respond to a few things I thought earlier, but here and now, the fact is, here is, there is no chairman of this committee, that today 71 the Constitutional Commission has not quite celebrated in Parliament and that today it has been, not to say, the weakest link in this chain, and that colleagues from Parliament have held (various profiles and interests, that what I don't miss)... a lecture to the Constitutional Commission and this is a lesson for this commission, but, here is the chairman of the entry, primarily a lesson for the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, because I think we will have to open this issue because today it was as it was and I haven't been comfortable to listen to my own way of working in the Constitutional Commission, regardless of how I voted, bring Parliament into this situation. And it's for us to find that for the science that we'll probably have to open that issue on the Constitutional Commission. But I'm gonna finish this story. We forgot about the amendment phase and forgot when we passed certain laws and some members, which we thought were in the process that they were not in accordance with the Constitution, changed. That's what we did in this House. And I suppose, if some colleagues had the opportunity to adopt amendments to their will in this law, that he would suddenly become constitutional and cease to be controversial, and that has nothing to do with technique and principles. I don't think we should have brought ourselves into this situation to make this constitutional basis so that we can baffle it and roll it in some living mud, but maybe it's an indicator of some other relationship. And as for strangers and what Ajanović mentioned, I think we're going in that direction that every house will get one stranger, that every body will get one stranger, everywhere. I expect up here that sometimes this foreigner will help this college too, because he might be more zealous. If he gets me home, at least let him be a little weaker on the food, a little more nutritious, so if we're going that way to push these strangers wherever we can and anywhere, and then, because I see that we're relying on them, don't let them go, but give them more and let us at least schedule them properly.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30192	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jozo Križanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I have suggested here on several occasions that when a certain competent commission's opinion is found negative for some law that it would be good for the commission to try to give a slightly thicker explanation for such a negative opinion, and then, in some ways, the debate at the House would be a little more focused and more concrete. As far as this bill is concerned, I think it has a constitutional basis, but the fact is that some of the provisions of this and the principles of this law are contrary to the BiH Constitution. And that's what, those are the facts about which there really is no debate. For example, Article 9 is in total contrast to the BiH Constitution. And you see, now that I'm not talking about the law, I can say right now that I am for law-making, but the question is also the content and form of that law. Some of these provisions could continue to be in accordance with the Constitution again, to leave the right to the Constitutional Court to regulate its relations with its Rules of Procedure, or Rules of Procedure. 72 And in the end, I think it'll follow us all the time. I have also experienced this in my own experience, whether, in the absence of the necessary activity of the institutions that should propose the law, we, fortunately, have expressed one representative initiative in these legal proposals, and that's good. But I also admit, I am very skeptical of these proposals, because we simply have such an organisation in this House that we do not have these capacities as agents to do it well, correctly and, let me say, with the necessary dose and expertise and seriousness we process as a definitive legislative proposal. So I am for him to have a constitutional basis, but certain provisions of this bill are contrary to the BiH Constitution, and I think that in this sense the Constitutional Commission had the right to say that there is a constitutional basis, but that certain principles are contrary to the BiH Constitution and now this is the issue of Parliament whether to let this go any further or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30194	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30195	Well, at first, I thought my student was taking me down there all the time, so now I'm convinced, because others told me that I was wrong about the pressure on those dots, so I apologized in my opinion. And I didn't answer to replicate you, Kalabić. I've called before, except before you called, to replicate here to me, dear man, Jukić. We must understand that only three institutions have the right to interpret what is constitutional and what is constitutional. It's the Constitutional Court, it's the Constitutional Commission that you chose but it's given the right to give an interpretation, and it's this home. There's no third institution. And now, it's incorrect if someone doesn't attend the session, for one reason or another, and then he comes and says it's not a good report, it's not a correct report, because I didn't attend. Oh, well, that's it, my dear Drago Kalabić. Therefore, those who did not attend the session can state their opinion and say: it is not our opinion, but they cannot, nor have the right to say that the decision is incorrect. The decision is quite correct, she had a quorum, she had enough debates and, therefore, she is who she is. If the majority in this house thinks the Constitutional Commission is wrong and has a constitutional basis, they will vote today that there is a constitutional basis and a finished story.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30196	Thank you. Discussion, Honorable MP, Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30197	I thank you, Chairman. 73 We have a lot of time, so I'll read the Rules of Procedure. In Article 101. The Rules of Procedure say: 'The draft law is submitted to the chairman who immediately delivers it to the College. Within seven days, the College shall decide which commission of the law is to be sent and delivered to the Constitutional Legal Commission in order to give an opinion on compliance with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system." ... So he's discussing compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. In Article 103. 'The Constitutional Commission, after considering the harmonisation of the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system, delivers an opinion to the chairman of the House within 15 days.' In Article 107. 'When the College received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and the competent committee on the draft law, which resulted in the Commission not establishing compliance with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system...' So, in complete this procedure when it comes to the application of the Rules of Procedure, it was enough only to determine whether or not the Constitutional Commission... exists, whether this bill is in conformity or not with the constitutional justice system in BiH. I think that's enough. And these procedures in the Rules of Procedure only determine whether there is compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. Therefore, it is clear that this law does not comply with the constitutional justice system, and that was enough to give such an opinion. I don't know, I don't see any reason why, otherwise, the Constitutional Commission, maybe it's a practice from before to establish that constitutional basis. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, it determines whether any law... is in conformity with the Constitution and the legal system or not in conformity with the constitutional and legal system, and that is enough to determine the validity of this. For these reasons, I appreciate that it was better that this commission did, not that it went into this kind of...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30198	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković, Law No 01,02-02-5-91/09, of 13. Ten. 2009 (first reading) Ambassador Momčilo Novaković passed the law in regular procedure 13.10. The Constitutional Legal Commission has delivered its opinion on 2. 11. The Directorate for European Integration delivered its Opinion 26. Ten. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. ... Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, as legislator of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'll put the hearing together for three laws in one debate. In the very order of the law, this proposal for an amendment to the Law on the Security of 74 non-binding traffic was introduced among these four laws, meaning it is not related to these three laws, which are the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers, the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Audit of Institutions and the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on State Service.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30201	Wait a minute. Do the MPs feel that we can discuss these three laws together? If you don't mind, shall we unite? Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30202	So all three of these laws deal with the same problem, which is the question of relations to audit reports and the question of the relationship to the availability of public funds. As we all know here, we've been taking years, reviewing audit reports, making certain conclusions that usually end up somewhere in drawers and, unfortunately, most of the time, according to the auditor's remarks, and our conclusions aren't done much until the next revision. As a result, me and my colleague, Šaraba, from the House of Nations, came up with the idea that in some way we should take this issue seriously in such a way that institutions that get a negative report from the auditors twice in a row that the managers of these institutions do not need to be at the head of that institution. If it's ministers, then it's defined by the Council of Ministers Act, and that's why we went, so I went with an addition to the Council of Ministers Act, and if it's a government official, then it's defined by the Law on Civil Servants and, ultimately, the Basic Law on Audition. And the first thing I came across or one of the comments was unfortunately the comment of the auditor who said it was pressure on the auditor, that article, that comment was in the Independent Journal. My intention also means that auditors give this issue due attention, given that it is public funds, my intention to be in Article 1. The proposal for a law supplementing the Revision Act is defined as having to give or have to give a negative or positive report – interpreted as a pressure on the audit. He's not a member or an essential member. Therefore, the revision continues to give negative reports without that member, if he gives them. Therefore, the essence is in the second member of the bill, which provides for it: it means that managers, who get a negative report twice in a row, cannot remain in those places. I was in a dilemma between that variant and the variant that the authority that appointed those executives was obliged to raise the question of responsibility. So it's not a shift, it's a matter of responsibility. It's to determine whose responsibility it is. Whether it is the responsibility of the competent manager, or lower departments, departments, ministerial assistants, etc., depends on which institution it is concerned. So there are more variations to determine this, but the worst possible option is that the thing stays in these frames that it is now. And of course, I'm not talking about a criminal here, I'm not talking about some criminal responsibility, I'm talking about political here, so that moral responsibility for managing an institution in terms of respect, means respect for the obligations undertaken to manage public funds. Here, that's the whole point of these proposals. The Constitutional Commission, as you can see, supported the principles of two of these laws, estimating that through the amendment phase they can be repaired in a way that is acceptable. The Commission for 75 Finance and the Budget did not support the principles of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Auditing, considering that the conclusions proposed by it are a better solution. One of these conclusions requires the Council of Ministers to propose legislation (the Commission's conclusions on finance and budget) to ask the Council of Ministers to propose a law that will increase responsibility in some ways for those who manage the funds. Of course, I have no ambition to resolve the issue of audit reports, negative and positive, as the 2008 auditors have assessed, or there is no negative one. This law has already been devastated in the beginning, or these laws are in the beginning devastated and make no sense at all. I hope it's not a pressure on the revision if I say it's very interesting that the review evaluates twice a row one institution with the reserve report, along with some explanations there, and then the next time again for the same thing the reserve report with additional explanations. I guess it's all done so you don't get that negative report. Of course, I'm happy if there's no negative reports. If all our institutions are so trampled in means that we don't have a problem, then it's best that there are no laws like this, because it's all settled. But here, I'll finish this. My colleague Jukić told me, he was in England where people don't even think about whether the funds are used in accordance with the law or not, it means, but rather the efficiency of the use of funds, means through audit. And it is understood that they are used in accordance with the law. We are still at a stage when we are dealing with whether they are used in accordance with the adopted budget, that is, the Budget Act. And that's why I think there's a need for them to be judged positive and negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30203	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bajazit Jašarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30204	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to talk a little bit about the package of these laws and Mr. Novaković, as a proposer, has illuminated this area with a lot of detail. Sometimes he didn't make it precise enough, and that's why I'd make it more clear to everyone. The fundamental law we are talking about today is the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions. So that's the first one to be seen. Article 1 of that Law requires, and this is a fundamental change, that the final financial audit report must contain an assessment positive or negative. And it doesn't comply with standards. I think that, at one of the next sessions may be even at the next, this review report for 2008 and we will all be clear that the up-to-date work of the Office for Audit, the Commission for Finance and Budget and this House and that, year after year, we have made significant progress in the segments reviewed by the Office for Audit. That doesn't mean we don't have to run, and we really don't have a single report assessed negatively, and we don't have to worry about it, because that doesn't mean we don't have a job, that we're done. We will come up with an impact review, but we still have objectively here to prescribe sanctions for the relationship with the audit reports in part of the public procurement and criminal responsibility for the failures made, and in part of the disciplinary responsibility through the rules on disciplinary responsibility. And these were the Commission's proposals for finance and budget, and if the conclusions are supported, probably the Council of Ministers will find a way to implement this. 76 It would be really good here to understand that we do not want the Office of Audit to edit beyond the world, as can be said, but in the way it is governed by standards. And if we give up that effort to prescribe them to evaluate the reports positive and negative, then all three laws lose their meaning. So we simply, if we want to keep standards in this area, we can't get reports that clearly say positive and negative, but we can just get reports that talk about positive, opinion with qualifications and negative opinion, and that should continue to remain in force. It is therefore very important that we keep in mind and I think that I absolutely understand the proposal's attempt, but I think it is better to go gradually with the arrangement of that area in the way that other countries are experienced, and here we also have a certain education of our people when it comes to it. Now, I almost don't have to say anything anymore, but when it comes to the proposal for a law supplementing the Council of Ministers' Law, it is therefore ordered that the Council of Ministers be replaced by a minister when the review office's report is negative. So, firstly, there will be no negative report, probably never again in the way it was, because serious progress has been made and secondly, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has not changed ministers until now. He was initiating the procedure and this home was therefore finishing the job, and this would be an unusual practice, and even in today's legislation, there is the possibility that the chairman of the Council of Ministers could, for whatever reason, and also because of the report of the Office of Audit, initiates the change of the minister if he considers it useful. We have that State Service Act, I don't even have to comment, it's less important at this point. I think that there must be more disciplined responsibility and a rule on disciplinary responsibility, which will be prescribed by the qualification report which represents a harsh violation of the work responsibilities, which will allow discipline sanctions to be imposed. After Mr. Novaković's presentation, it is almost clear to me that there are no conditions for these laws to be supported. Whether they will be acquired later, they will be seen, but I'm not sure, so I think it will go quite another way and that the responsibility in this section will be growing from year to year, with the biggest problem being this public responsibility and we haven't come to the position that a man is too hateful to appear in front of a parliamentary commission at a hearing to publicly explain how he has the public funds or, possibly, some other segments for which he is responsible. But ever since people didn't even want to come to this day, the difference is amazing, and we already have that progress in the number of positive reports such that it's almost a little miracle, and wonders of course don't exist. So, however, people understand that this public responsibility is increasingly important to our public or important to this Parliament and this Parliament will need, therefore, and when it is time to discuss it, to support the Finance and Budget Commission to simply achieve a high level of responsibility in its work, based on experiences from other countries. Because of what we have stated, the Party of Democratic Action Club cannot support these principles, because it is something that is deviating from the path that Parliament has defined before this called for, so the early adoption of the law and the adoption of the way the Office of Review works by standards and therefore we are not able to, even in the first reading, support these principles, because the adoption of the law with any amendments at this stage would not achieve any effect. Thank you very much. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30205	Thank you. Replica, Honourable Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30206	Well, I'm really not going to replicate anymore, but there's only one thing I have to say. Namely, the chairman of the Council of Ministers can still launch initiatives today, and neither do I. Please, the Council of Ministers is not considering audit reports at all because there is no obligation, people, to consider audit reports. Imagine that there are institutions where the Council of Ministers appoints without Parliament, means without Parliament, without the need for anyone else to give consent to the managers of these institutions, and then does not consider an audit report on their work. Be careful, it's easy not to believe. Here, I haven't, let's say, remembered to amend the law, but here's anyone, so... law, if anything else, that the Council of Ministers' responsibility according to these reports can be increased. Maybe it'll mean something in the whole system. And I can't agree that there's some significant progress here. I've seen those reports for this year. I don't know if there's any serious offense to the law on public procurement not being respected. And believe that over 50% of the reports have these findings that the Public Procurement Act is not fully respected. I don't know what's the most serious offense an auditor can come across, except of course some... I don't want to talk about some criminal things now, but from not being respected by the Public Procurement Act. But I repeat, I don't want to put any pressure on the audit. Exactly, I belong to those who have advocated the full freedom of auditors here, but the fact is that we have to do something, and this is what I end up with, if we want something to change and to increase responsibility for the availability of public funds. If this isn't good, I agree, if your colleagues don't think it's good, let's suggest something that's good, I'll support everything that's good.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30207	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Bajazit Jašarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30208	So this is Mr. Novaković's good view that the audit reports should be declared by the Council of Ministers with a programme to address the shortcomings in institutions. This is one of the conclusions of the Finance and Budget Commission and, if adopted, this conclusion is supported by this Parliament, then the Council of Ministers will have such a commitment. Unfortunately, there is no obligation in the current legislation. It will probably need to go further in amending that legislation. As far as this goes, there's progress. Can we make more progress? There may and should be greater progress, but there is progress and here is Parliament's next session to have reports for the past few years, from which it will be very clear that this responsibility has been greatly increased, 78 where we all need much more knowledge from this. So we're in a situation where we think it's all just a criminal responsibility. Today's criminal legislation can absolutely sanction any irregularities found in the review report, and all reports go to the prosecution. Let's not be unhappy if the D.A. didn't estimate that there was such a responsibility. It is a lack of misdemeanor and disciplinary responsibilities, and that is what needs to be done. What was suggested to disrupt the work of the Audit Office. We have confidence in the work of the Audit Office and in the discussions on the Commission and in the debates at this home should not spoil people, I do not think that this is pressure on them, should not spoil them to go their own way, so forward. They need our support. And on the basis of being a positive or negative report, let's disrupt their work rhythm, but also in the current work of the Audit Office, I think that what the Proposer has tried to do can be found ways to strengthen both disciplinary and criminal and moral responsibility, and this crime has nothing to be embellished and current criminal legislation can be sanctioned in the way that it is in accordance with the law. So it's a real picture of it. Of course we individually experience it in a different way, I, may be that the members of this committee are very responsible. That's why we have this much data. So, we can also say responsibly that the reports of the Office of Audit speak of a better state, where we are of course not satisfied because, especially in large ministries where there are large amounts of funds, we think that more education and change of the Public Procurement Act and everything else is necessary for us to have confidence in spending these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30209	Thank you. Discussion, the second deputy chairman, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30210	I think that these initiatives of this quantity and quality are welcome from MPs, unlike ambitions when it comes to these large and complex legislative projects. And I understand this as one reaction to the experience that we have here from year to year. Let me remind you, we simply came to a situation making some conclusions, calling on the prosecution and here, in my opinion, at least I, Mr. Jašarević, experienced, simply, we came to a situation of impotence as Parliament, with a negative perception of the public when it comes to spending public funds. So we simply came to the situation to repeat the same conclusions over and over again, to call on the prosecution, to call on this, to call on it and simply to lose dynamics, in some ways, to lose concepts and the idea of a very complex project, in which the international community, and in particular some countries, Sweden, Norway, etc., invested huge money. Our people have been to seminars, courses, England, Sweden, Norway dozens of times, there's nowhere to go. And it seems to me that the time has come for something conceptual to change and to institutionalize responsibility and in the sense that a man can lose his job. However, we have one practical problem here. It's good to have a unique discussion... of three of these things. It would be better if this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Audit of Institutions before this Proposal for a Law supplementing the Council of Ministers Act and you are absolutely right. So this is the package. But what have we got? We have that the committee in charge gave a positive unanimous opinion on the amendment of the Council of Ministers' Law in this 79th direction that the Commission, also gave a favourable, unanimous opinion on the Law on State Service and we have a negative opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission when it comes to the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Audit, which is a basic law without which there is no point in changing either these two. And now I'm thinking about how and how to get out of this situation. It is logical to support these reports, which are completely positive and unanimous with these two laws, by then coming into a situation where you are considering whether to support a report that is negative, or to accept a report that is negative. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30213	Thank you. Bajazit Jašarević, replica second. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30214	Yes, of course, the situation here is pretty clear. So there's no practice like this. If we were looking for her, if there's a practice like this, there's no practice like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30215	What practice?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30216	The practice of changing someone because the review office report is negative and negative and positive and does not write like that. So there is no such practice. There's a practice of determining the criminal responsibility that we have. There is a practice of criminal responsibility such as in Serbia and Croatia, there is a practice of disciplinary responsibility in countries in the environment. This practice of saying that someone has to change because the report is negative and it won't even be written 80 negative, because it can't, so that's the kind of law change we can accept if we deviate from those standards. And, I have to, without this commission that's been setting this up, give the commission a head start, but the Finance and Budget Commission has a close and very correct co-operation with the Audit Office. We care very much about this home that the Audit Office has the support and this committee of the House, and I think that this law, which prescribes a positive and negative report, should be some kind of signal that we should be going in the direction. We can certainly adopt everything here. I personally think that the laws are inconclusive, that the minister is prescribed that on a negative report that the Council of Ministers' replacements, no one thought of it that way, but here, so, as the House decides, so be it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30217	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30218	I'm really surprised. Your replica practically encourages those who have budgets. So they're protected, sure. So you're saying that you can't understand how someone fits if they have a negative report, because they don't, if they're negative, formulate a negative report. So it must be answered if it violates the law, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Internal Control and a number of other things. Of course, your right, the SDA MPs have the right to have their own opinion and attitude, but don't press other people to have a different opinion. So we think we should sanction people who don't have proper state resources, and we have practice, we keep forming some investigative committees, we keep trying something, we have a practice that's not bright. No, not just you, it's your right. I'm telling you that in this country it's not being spent properly and by law budgets, be sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30219	... It's not a replica to me, it's... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30220	The replica is you, you protect them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30221	Momčilo Novaković, replica. You said you wouldn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30222	I said I wouldn't do it anymore, but it's not my first time... then. No, I can't. Watch what irritated me. The finding that this commission has good relations with the Office of Audit. Look, I too have good relations with the Office for Audition, although I am not a member of the Finance and Budget Committee. They don't touch me, I don't touch them, and here's my good relationship. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30223	It's from last term.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30224	I have good relations with... The audit office. And look, we can't touch them, they're independent. It's touching an independent audit, please! Here it is, Šefik. I can't touch it in the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is an independent institution. Don't touch anyone in the Constitutional Court! The one over there from the RAC won't let you touch cancer, don't touch cancer, it's an independent institution! No Niko can know what people's wages are. The BiH Court and the Prosecution, Bog forbid you to touch it! And everyone can touch us here and... Is that a principle? If that's the principle, here's the principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30225	Okay, we've got replicas. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30226	I would like to make a statement to Mr. Chairman's statement that, as SDA, he does not want to sanction those who break the law, or that we want to promote it and watch it and support it. I really don't feel that way and I'm building on any of these stories, and I want, in a way that the law allows and positive regulations, to solve and regulate it, and not in any way labeling it to the members of the SDA that they don't want to sanction someone who violates the law and spends unintended budgets.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30227	Dear Ambassador Salko Sokolović has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, as a member of the Finance and Budget Committee. Please, we obviously have a problem here that someone has more information, some less information, or someone grabbed that information, and they're trying in a different way to make their point here. Look, someone mentioned earlier, we next time we discuss the summary audit report, you'll see what this commission has done in this direction to sanction certain things. And someone said there was no progress. There's progress. So you'll see exactly in that report, if you haven't already got it, that there's progress. So if you had 9.5% of the positive audit reports in 2006, and now you have 41%, isn't that progress, and with six institutions more that are audited. Therefore, we have this close co-operation with the office for the revision according to their instructions and ours, is it? Here she is and the president is coming, he'll probably get involved in this work now. I think we've objectively placed some things on our feet, but it's certainly in these three years' upswing pathways, and it's a well-indulgent pathway. Or here, I'll tell you, so negative opinions have never been. You have positive opinions with the emphasis on certain responsibilities, also in a certain fall. And when you get this report, you'll see that through points 8, 9 and 10, we've accurately predicted sanctions but excluding this criminal part. So, we have defined ourselves for this part of the disciplinary responsibility and surely that... as Parliament we should task the Council of Ministers 82 to determine, through the amendment of the law, which is the responsibility. We called the D.A. to see what had been done over the past two years, based on the audit reports that had gone to them, on this matter. So when there's a report from the D.A.'s office, then we'll ask them what was going on in that direction. Look, you have both objective and subjective circumstances of people's actions in the top positions. We've been talking to each and every one of them. They expressed their views on the basis of these accounts they had. And you see exactly that in some directions they too couldn't act differently. Either there was a movement of the institution, or they didn't fill in the systematization, or someone else, who needed to get them some sort of act, obstructed in that part, etc., not taking off any responsibility, but putting pressure on them to work intensively, not with some radical measure that someone else needed to do. We've made this shift these three years from 10% to 41%, etc. So, by respecting all the discussions here, here's some data that someone will later have on the table and analyze and read, you'll see that this commission is not protecting anyone. The Commission just wants to make everything work right along with the Audit Office. I hope so, too, and it is a promise from these heads of state institutions that have been audited that the 2009 revision will show further drastic progress in relation to this situation that we now have here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30229	Replica, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30230	Thank you, Chairman. Namely, when at the 11th joint session of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly we discussed also the summary audit reports, I suggested one conclusion, you probably remember that. I will remind you: 'The managers of the institutions, which are covered by the revision of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, who receive three consecutive reports with the reserve opinion, or one of these reports has a negative opinion, will resign or the competent authority will initiate the procedure for their removal, in accordance with the law.' That's one conclusion I suggested here when we discussed it and how much I saw in the O.R. was the approval of such a conclusion. However, we did not vote on that conclusion at the time, but we forwarded it to both the financial and budgetary committees, and in the summary report, that conclusion did not go through our commission. Accordingly, I support MP Novaković's efforts, which practically turned that conclusion into a legal project and thus strengthened him. And at the same time, when we talk about the independence of audit institutions, by this bill, you give them weapons, you give them the opportunity to see someone tomorrow suffer for the report they're about to receive. Because after that, there is a sanction to be carried out in the sense of resigning, that is to say, the replacement of that director. I don't see what the impact on auditor's independence is if you give him additional opportunities and authority to use it in case these reports don't match. So, I'm surprised by the report of our audit that in this way she accepted this bill when we give them additional opportunities and resources to fight illegality, i.e. to strengthen their reports, so I don't see that it's a blow to 83 institutions. I will support these bill proposals, especially in line with what I have already proposed. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30231	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members, I have here a replica of these remarks that the esteemed colleague Novaković made. So... no doubt about the whole debate, and we all agree in one thing that there is inflation of general positions related to this audit report in BiH institutions and all levels of government. But I think these two laws, even if they get support, are inconclusive. First of all, I believe that we cannot... the standard of amending the law, that the report can have a positive or negative if the main audit service of BiH institutions works on the basis of... standards, means international audit institutions. We can't back down from it, we have to have some kind of partnership that would be, so that would be possible to comply with international standards. The second issue concerns the discharge of the institution's head of office. I have to say that we need to look for that solution, but what would happen now in the way of naming some executives. For example, it also refers to the Council of Ministers Act: Is it possible, if we define it, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers or the chairman of the Council of Ministers..., does it not matter what it is called, to launch... on the basis of two consecutive negative reports? I think we should define what counterpart Novaković just said, the responsibility of the law, the responsibility of the executive authority to determine the responsibility of the competent managers in the institutions that are subject to audit reports. In this case, therefore, firstly obligation and responsibility, the obligation to consider reports, to notify the Parliamentary Assembly once in six months of the measures taken. Also, when it comes to the establishment of some internal procedures, so the maximum number of failures refers to inadequate internal procedures, disrespect even of the law and all of this, I think it is necessary to establish in the Regulation on the disciplinary responsibility of civil servants in BiH institutions as the most difficult degree of disciplinary responsibility for the failure of responsible persons in the conduct of these audit reports, i.e. in the non-implementation of certain positions related to the audit report. And another key thing that concerns our call is that the esteemed deputy chairman, counterpart Belkić, said, and refers to our constant calling... these institutions to do something, and sometimes we are funny, and they each keep quiet in their own way. I believe that the draft law supplementing the Law on the revision of BiH institutions (but we, these proposals do not treat) should define the obligation of the auditors to inform the competent authorities of the BiH state who will respond at the moment when there is a suspicion of criminal offences in the audit process. I think it's real, and if this other story were real, because if this story was real, Momo, who's a very experienced MP, a brilliant MP, I'm sure, would have suggested four years ago. These amendments to the law, I'm sure he would have suggested it four years ago, both of them, to be adopted. These laws, these amendments to the law, if they were even proposed, would be inconclusive, would create an even more confusing situation. That's it, thank you. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30232	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30233	First of all, I would like to say that I support Mr. Novaković's activity at the start of these issues. Because here, as far as I am in Parliament, no one has ever answered the question of a negative audit report, no one, simply. Secondly, all our asked questions to the Council of Ministers and asking the Council of Ministers to take measures to prevent, to say,... public procurement because, most of the time, these were things that were explicitly present in all almost ministries, and we never got a positive answer. You're talking about making 10% progress, now we're at 40%. And imagine if we had a law like this 10 years ago or... first of this term, I think all the audit reports would have been positive, I think we would have been far more positive in spending public funds. That's why I think Mr. Novaković's proposal deserves attention. I'm not saying that maybe he can in his first reading today, so the amendments may not be completed, but I'm not asking for the Council of Ministers to look at the audit reports, that those minors that rebuke the president of the Council of Ministers who didn't do well, so he'll get better, and then again in two years or a year he'll do what he's done so far. So I think... at least, I'll support this in the first reading, in the amendment phase we'll see what can be done, and I'm not even opposed to what might be found a solution, that there are responsibilities for those who do not carry out their work properly and in continuity twice get a negative audit report that does not run against them and disciplinary responsibility. But can't those who were in fact the heads of these departments of ministries or just the Council of Ministers have been able to do so by now. At least that's why I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30234	Thank you. Sadik Bahtić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30235	Thank you. Here, and I will explain briefly why this commission did not support the proposal of counterpart Novaković. counterpart Lazar Prodanović said article 1 is contrary to international audit standards, cannot only be positive, negative, there are... reserves and so on. Article 2, meaning the authority responsible for the appointment of the sea for... the head of the institution to which twice... You can't solve someone if a man is a civil servant. 85 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30238	Thank you. I just want to let the House know that we're on the 12th, or 13th agenda, and we're gonna be working until 6:00 p.m. tomorrow, and we're gonna keep working if we don't finish by then. Replica, the second deputy chairman, Mr. Belkić. Here you go. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30239	We had the opportunity here, Mr. Bahtić, you were not present, to have a very similar explanation for Mr. Jašarević... I think you're the deputy, whether, the chairman, Mr. Jašarević, no, a member of this committee, and it's very correct for us to understand what this is all about. So, to be clear, no one here, at least I didn't question respecting standards and I know exactly how to define what's going on with the reserve, etc. I was talking about that this package... is simply inconclusive, we have two laws with a positive and this unanimously positive opinion and this Parliament has been brought in, and I'm being put into a position to respect the unanimous views of this committee support two, and I have a third that is the basis for these two, I have a third one with a negative report. However, what surprised me when it was said that a negative report, or that the reserve report could not produce the responsibility of this species, would never really be clear to me. So, it has to produce responsibility and I think it would be the smartest thing, Mr. Novaković, to have you pull these three back today and try to make one package right in accordance with these standards. I'm for whoever gets it twice, three times... negative opinion with the reserve, let the shift procedure start, and I'll back it up, be sure. But I can't support changing the formulation of the assessment of the situation, if we have signed agreements and we have adopted directives to implement certain standards. So I'm not contradictory, I'm absolutely in favour of imposing sanctions on leaders who have a budget, that twice out, etc. the reserve report seriously, serious non-compliance with the Public Procurement Act, serious ignoring the introduction of internal control, etc. - that these people are changing. But not to introduce some things that are beyond standard. And we have this situation with three laws that are absolutely out of line.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30240	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30241	Dear Chairman, I would just like to remind you, at the end of 2007, I personally submitted to the BiH Prosecutor's Office a request to establish and respect the audit reports and get an answer from them. First in line BHTV, you know what it was like, old management, how much they took and what they took until today, nothing. I ask myself, "What is this time to talk about audit reports, and what can we do about it?" And we're making ourselves, not to say some harsh expression, powerless, helpless, no one's answering anything. And if what I support from Mr. Novaković is applied, I don't know the percentage, but here's 70% of the institutions immediately beheaded, no executives, right now they need people in prison, we see reports normally, what do we do then. So it's really amazing what we're doing. Every time the audit reports, the negative business, no one's answering anything. Is there any chance that someone would suggest me to be in some executive power so that I, too, once turned to do more honest business, or I've said here countless times: whoever gave me the stamp, I invite them not to judge me, but to hang me. But these picked up all the folk money, arch, taking new cars, says we planned on budgeting. So he's having a hard time planning, he's the head of the agency himself, and he's got a deputy and 20 employees for a certain time, and he says 87 planned it. Well, of course he'll spend it when he doesn't have any responsibility. And then, I want to remind you, so if this prosecutor is looking forward to reading, I am not advertising the newspaper, "Dnevni Avaz", "Free Bosnia", "Independent", "Glas Srpske", if they read the newspaper, if they see what these journalists are writing about these audit reports. And we come today, we lose this much time, and we shouldn't lose, we're discussing audit reports and what we've concluded. She was shaking up, there was a sequel, there was a mouse born. Oh, we're all mice here, all the mice who got involved, stole money, stole public money and said political responsibility. The political responsibility of alaibbeg's straw, and now I can't talk about them. Well, they're all honest, so even the auditors now took three new cars and they planned it and they did, and now I can't tell them about it. So please be nice! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Never, I respect the teacher, it has nothing to do with it, it knows what Alajbeg is, and what Alajbegović, do not honor me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30243	Easy, easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30244	I don't want to play with that. Professor, you know how much I respect you, I appreciate your last name, and we're not going to do that. So, please, what are we going to conclude today? We don't want Novakovic's suggestions, we don't want this, we don't want what, what happens? The MPs amnested all the thieves who stole the money and broke this law, that public procurement! It's like we don't see it with our own eyes. Will we get serious and say, "Stop stealing people's money! And I'm not a populist, it's not a pre-election campaign, so go Slavo, you're a legend defending interests, you're going to win every party. I'll win for sure. Why? Because I'm fighting to stop thieves. And that's why you SNSD friends of mine look forward to staying with you, so we'll be the winning party again. But let me finish. So, what's gonna be the point of what we're discussing today?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30245	Replication is three minutes, you've passed the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30246	Lazo Prodanović Four, pet your speech. Thank you very much, I'll give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30247	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30248	I thank you, Chairman. Replication of the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission. It's not the Constitutional Commission. So, you took it and you rewritten the opinion of the Audit Office that it stands in, says: 'The Commission supports... The opinion of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of BiH and the Proposal for a Law and considers... that audit opinions... are exclusively defined and established by the audit standards and that they are not the matter regulated by the Law on Auditing, and then those standards are determined by this Congress." So, you signed the Review Office's opinion. So, without this, I consider (and without this opinion and without amending this Revision Act) these principles proposed by Novaković should be supported even if someone has negative audit reports to raise the question of responsibility. That's the principle that a man stands for. And therefore, the Opinion of the Audit Office does not prevent us from accepting the principles of these previous three laws at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30249	Wait a minute, so you can leave it at the club maybe.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30250	I recommend that my colleague, Remzija Kadrić, read the material when he gets it in the future. If he'd read these materials of ours, these ten conclusions, he probably wouldn't have talked like this. We work there in the Commission... and we have covered everything in these ten conclusions. And for the first time, to introduce responsibility, disciplinary responsibility in these conclusions. And as far as I'm concerned, spend it, I'll be the first to replace it the sweetest, because we're dealing with this, most of the time spending our commission on these audit reports, and it has to be respected. And what we've introduced, believe it's stricter than many countries in the environment, what we've introduced for the first time. And we punish 10% of the organization there and we introduce into the law disciplinary responsibility, and my Bog, you can't replace a man like that, a man named, a civil servant and then... they have procedures, they have rules. This is a state of law. This isn't a straw by alaibe, which this colleague just said.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30251	Mr. Bahtić, you keep mentioning some conclusions. What conclusions are involved, and in what material did we receive these conclusions?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30252	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30253	Where did we get those conclusions?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30254	No microphone 89 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30255	So we haven't gotten those conclusions, you can't refer other MPs to conclusions we didn't get as materials. You may have done this internally as the Commission, but we as Dom did not get those conclusions. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30256	My replicas refer to my colleagues from the Bosniak Club. So the rest of you can relax. Look, if you've seen it, read the Commission's report, there's three or three that there's been a vote. There's no drag here, there wasn't an ethnic line that broke. I was in favour of upholding the principles as a member of this commission to uphold the principles of this law. And for the sake of correctness, I think you should say here. I'm sorry, I wasn't at first when the debate on this point started. A Kolega, Novaković, as a legislator, after an intervention by the audit on Article 1 said he accepted it absolutely. So, if we were to allow this law to pass this first phase, in phase two, this or a member could be wiped out or modified by another one that would take into account the standards by which the audit works, so we wouldn't be in college. He's still a member of 2. I thought that... it wouldn't be responsible to give the review now, not to say, to a civil servant and a clerk to replace people after, because there's a possibility of manipulation, here objectively stands the possibility of manipulation and we need to be aware of that. So here we could loosen something up, of course, within this commission; the point behind it was the summary audit reports so that there were conclusions that correspond to this to one extent but they're not completely harmonised, here's what I'm saying. The problem now is that these conclusions did not come to Parliament, they did not follow the course of this law. I think it would be good if we let the law go in the first reading, let it go. In the meantime, these conclusions will also come to the conclusion that through the amendment procedure, or that a colleague withdraws the laws if these conclusions are accepted or that these conclusions are incorporated into this law so that we can get to the best possible solution. So, I don't think it's a good idea to give a civil servant, a clerk, that he can replace the director of the agency by making two negative reports. I have no doubt in advance, but there is a possibility of manipulation and it needs to be prevented, so it must have some control mechanism. That's one thing. And another thing, you can't pretend that everything's okay so that this condition stays in line with all the discussions here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30257	I hope, dear colleagues, that you understand that it is a negative opinion by your commission and that we as a House can only return it to the Commission, not to let it go in the first reading. At the same time, the other two laws, if we accept, go further, and this law returns to the Commission, and that it is already a kind of complication. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić, discussion. Here you go. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30258	I thank you for your word. I answered the debate about an hour ago, in the meantime there were about 20 replicas that weren't actually, two or three replicas per its contents, all the rest were debates, but I think we should take a little bit of account of it in the future, but well, I'm patient, so I'm going to settle for finding this out. Namely, Momo Novaković, a respected colleague, has indeed been well-signed through these three laws, well-opened by two problems, very important problems, arising from the work of the Audit Office and all that he carries with him after the reviewed reports, because we all expect something to be done by means of findings that through various qualifications, whether these are qualifications reports or negative reports, are behind him taking some kind of responsibility. However, Mr. Novaković made a mistake in one. In my opinion, he went a little too far with radical solutions. In fact, one of these solutions is, and this is partly suspended by standards that apply to the work of the Audit Office, which our Audit Office has accepted, which are actually accepted by most, not all but most of the audit houses in EU countries. I think it's a good idea for us to stay and stick to those standards, and that's why this Mom's article 1 is not acceptable. However, as it comes to first reading, the principles raise the question of how we can treat ourselves as a competent committee on the fact that the whole law is actually two principles. And if we're going to be really responsible and correct to the end and professional, then we can just say that they weren't principles, at least for me, and for most, acceptable. Of course, with their change, then we change the principles. But good. I think what's really important is that we're here today, I think, at least most of us agreed that we should do something and I agree with that. I don't think it's possible that after a few consecutive reports that are qualified or negative that actually happens in an institution nothing. I think it is necessary to commit responsible people, the heads of institutions, to initiate the process of determining responsibility for these failures found in the report on the institution's business audit for that period. And I think that's partly possible through these conclusions that my fellow members here keep mentioning, and in fact the other no one has seen them, and that's why it's not correct to talk about them because others haven't read them. However, the question again is whether it is enough to remain in the form of conclusions, and the recently respected second vice-president, Mr Belkić, spoke of how often our conclusions are actually without any echoes, i.e. producing any effect expected, and that is the fact. That's why I think the best solution, it's already mentioned here, that Mr. Novaković withdraws these laws, all three, and then respects what's said here, suggests with some slightly different solutions, and basically to achieve this goal that we all expect here to be realized and done, and that it's best, and that in that way we'll really get solutions that will give the expected results, which is that really all those who have made the call for responsibility for the failures done, that it's a commitment, and not only if they fail to be so big that it's a matter for the law enforcement agencies in BiH, which we have, they need, and the prosecutions, to investigate, and then in their own way within their powers and process them. So, I suggest we solve this this way, and I think it would be a bad thing to do different things today, that the laws, that is, here the negative reports, that we take down the 91 laws, then the question is, we just actually extend one state that's not a solution. And around the conclusions of our commission, they fit in perfectly. Namely,... it is not correct to talk about it because we have stated that there is a need, a lack of normative acts, which regulations, which various instructions, etc., a few dozen, we will talk about when the audit reports are in order.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30259	Thank you. Jozo Križanović, honourable MP, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Actually, I'll do it very briefly, since it's mostly very much said here around this package, so to speak. In fact, I fully understand both the aim and the proposal's intention and I fully support it. However, of these three proposed laws, I think there are two surpluses. For me, the key here is this law... that is to supplement the Revision Act. You see, if the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Audition is adopted, then Article 2 of that Law says it is added in Article 16(5), which says: 'The appointment authority must relieve the duties of the institution's manager, who shall be assessed negatively twice in parallel by the final financial audit report.' We've solved everything with this. Therefore, we do not need to have any amendments and additions to the Ministry Act and this Administration Act. So I think this law would solve these two. However, in Article 1 of this Law, it is problematic that this wording 'that the final financial audit report must contain an assessment positive or negative' because the colleagues, and Beriz, I think and Prodanović, already said that this standard should still be respected, the European standard of revision as it is called, and that we would have to find this formulation in these standards and stream it when it is believed that there is a responsibility of the manager of a particular institution. As to whether or not we should problem the responsibility of the institution manager whose audit reports are not favourable, I do not think there are any dilemmas. Imagine, this is where we talk about consecutive twice. This means if one institution manager has not spent public budgets in accordance with certain regulations, that is to say, any further tactics and justifications for certain liability and replacements. I don't think we should talk about it. It's another matter of criminal responsibility, it's other channels, it's other roads, etc., but I think it's our duty to lay down the responsibility by law, to make the law binding on the authority that appointed that person to whom it occurs twice in a row to suffer the consequences. So here, finally, my proposal is to focus on one of these laws, and that is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Audition, and I think that it could stay alive, with this... Article 1 being built up and to comply with these review standards and that, as such, it should be adopted, and that, in my deep conviction, these two laws would be contained in this law in Article 2. Thank you very much. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30261	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30262	Here's your thanks, Chairman. I'm going to try very briefly for these 18 hours to get this over with today so we don't extend tomorrow's session, it's going to be possible to extend it a little bit today. _________(?) Never mind. Oh, we'll keep going. Look, we are resisting all the forces as if we were to pass laws that are important for visa liberalisation and, behold, as an EU accession, and laws that are an integral part of our lives as someone else's solution. However, we must, at the very least, resolve such laws, too, which are not in line with, I say, with life in BiH. It is said here that many institutions have received a report that is not fleeting, I will say so, I will not give it any other name, but I will say that it is not transient and it is also clear that the leaders in these institutions or ministries have remained to do their job as if the audit had not been. What's the point of reviewing if that's how it's gonna be? We need to try to finish this once and make sure that everyone who is audited knows that unless he has a passing grade, I am saying, when reviewing that he has to bear some responsibility and sanctions, even if it's just a sanction of a shift from that position, that is, not to extend the further term of office. Here, now I will take the draft law supplementing the Law on the revision of BiH institutions as an example, and I have here two members who are proposed, Article 1 and Article 2. If the disputed member is 1st, it is not a problem, I will now see if Mr. Novaković has given up or revised it, etc., etc. Article 2, in my opinion, there is nothing to be disputed about, we, like everyone here, agree that we should settle this, etc. And how are we going to solve this if we don't put this into the amendment phase, that is, through the first reading and in the amendment phase, to make this into a proposal to amend and supplement a law that could be acceptable to a second reading and thus adopt it? Everything else is an empty story. Everything else and I don't know why someone's protecting someone here!? I don't see any reason because no one has any use for these people or institutions who haven't received a passing assessment from the review being protected by someone who's simply someone who's probably a proposing, and I guess because the proposal is from the RS, someone because the proposal from the Federation of BiH is breaking the laws that are in the procedure, and I guess that's enough reason why we don't take such laws in the process and we don't create from them the final text that could be adopted. If this topic ends with the rejection of these laws today, I think the Assembly will make a mistake and it will be a vain conclusion of Mr. Živković, who was at that time adopted, as well as supported by all of us euphorically, because that is what is right and that is how it should end. That conclusion doesn't drink water, we know that the same things are still happening. This isn't going to forgive us unless we get a grip on this, and that's why I suggest we get this 93 strength and go into another reading, that is to get it through the amendment phase to redecorate it and I don't see any other reason to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30264	Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30265	Thank you, Chairman. I'll do it very briefly. I listened with attention to the discussions and made an insight into the suggestions. We're kind of spinning around here, I feel like we all feel like there's something missing, but sometimes in discussions and suggestions we might go the wrong way. I will only remind you, all this discussion and concrete proposals, unfortunately for me, have amnested entirely this Parliament of its responsibility throughout the process relating to the revision. What do I want to draw attention to? This Parliament is adopting a budget. He is proposed by the Presidency, the processor, or the authorised budget processor, and at the stage of budget adoption is the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Finance, but we are the ones who adopt the budget. We are the ones who choose the management of an independent Audit Office that reports us with their business reports, or what we have adopted whether it is correct in the rules of the game, or whether the laws adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly are respected. And why are we here amnesting this House of Responsibility? With all due respect here, the institutions mentioned here, but why should we transfer or the role this Parliament has, or an independent audit institution, why should we give authority or transfer powers to the Council of Ministers? Who appointed the Council of Ministers? If we want the organ that appointed an official to take shifts, then first we're you. We should replace the Council of Ministers if there is an unauthorized availability of budgetary resources. Here, I use the usual structure that comes to us when there's a trial against someone, like we had and we have cases of that kind. What does "unauthorized" mean by budget resources? Unrespected legal provisions and unrespected gauges or frameworks within which the budget is to be respected? In that sense, I have only tried to draw attention to one direction of thinking, because I fear that the proposals of this kind of parliament are drawn out, sorry for the expression, of the responsibility that he has in his office, because we are the ones who are responsible. Let's go back a little bit now – here's a colleague, Jukić, through his discussion, we'll talk about it when the reports are -- forgive me, but I don't remember, except for the Financial Business Audit Report of the Public TV Service, that this parliament has remained on a single report for more than five minutes. Moreover, we have been uniting the debate with these points and in the end it has all ended either without discussion or with a weak discussion and, ultimately, with the adoption of the audit reports. And we adopted that with a period, perhaps,...that was written, that is, a period of two years ago. What does it mean two years in a row if it's a negative report when we're acting like this here, considering reports, adopting such reports? You're saying we are, indeed, and I was in my own time, back in the last term, the pronoun of the conclusion that every report that has any reserve is being sent to the prosecution, with full respect for the BiH Prosecutor's Office and other competent institutions. But I'm asking you when a lawyer opens an audit report 94 on business whether and how much he understands standards, are there qualifications, did we give any indication that the provisions have been broken and, and so on, did we assign someone to a report that looked to us or perhaps indicated by an independent auditor that he was with a reserve, etc., did we pause over such a report so that we can see in the content where there are reasons perhaps for our reaction? Have the provisions of a law been broken, whether the application or implementation of a law has been passed, whether there has been unauthorized availability outside the budgets adopted by this Parliament? I just want to draw attention to a little bit of us asking... It is no accident that the role of Parliament is crucial in this entire audit chain. Parliament is the one who adopts the budget, Parliament is the one who conducts and oversees the implementation of the budgets in the frameworks in which it was adopted, and it is Parliament who chooses an independent auditor to write audit reports for the purposes of this Parliament. Someone once made a decision to commit themselves to Swedish standards in a series of standards, perhaps someone today would say that some other standards might be better in audit business, but they are what they are. If we need to change them, let's give us conclusions to our auditor, or the Audit Office, to suggest what direction to change in order to achieve the effect, which is to realize the role that belongs to us by definition. In that sense, it seems to me that this first member of the law relating to waste standards, because Swedish standards mean a scale of assessment as it already exists, whether we like it or not. That's one thing. Secondly, this is that the body that has appointed it, therefore, and this surplus that counterpart Križanović mentioned earlier should be removed, first of all it should refer to this parliament. We have communication with the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers, or individual ministers with lower bodies within ministries and civil servants with special powers, etc. We don't need those five laws, and we don't need to transfer responsibility to someone else. And I'm not in favor of us adopting the budget, and someone else controlling how... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30266	Thank you. Discussion, let's move on. Dear Ambassador Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, just what the teacher was saying is the essence of the problem. I may not have thought of speaking this broadly on this subject, but I wanted to suggest, if we avoid Parliament's responsibility, that then the Finance and Budget Commission is no longer working on this issue, there is no need to work or transfer activity to Parliament, and then to analyse and determine the responsibility of the institution, we are here in Parliament, otherwise we are going to run away from this responsibility, because here today we are only talking about financial audit. No Niko mentioned an impact review. When we talk about her, will she be an integral part of a positive or negative opinion? So today you bring up some kind of solution and beat him over the knee. We seriously need to think about this problem for all of these reasons, the connotations that we might later be able to... I'm afraid in this way we'd turn the Audit Office into an investigative committee, so they can load it tomorrow into a... combination, etc. 95 I have a problem with the prosecutor's office with Mr. Alagić, who is in charge of the investigation, the prosecution is running a staff policy in the SIPA. I've asked the D.A.'s office a few questions, I've never got an answer, and I know what's going on there. And now I need one Audit Office that's been doing financial control at this point, which hasn't even started talking about impact review, in fact, turning us into something else, and we're breaking out this responsibility of ours. I think we need to think carefully about the future in which we are reviewing these institutions in order for our responsibility to be too far-reaching and for us to order someone to complete the process proposed through this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30268	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić. How good a replica comes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30269	Oh, here, I'll do it very briefly. We are talking here about impact review, and we have in our reports on the revision of financial operations institutions of such qualifications as the absence of basic internal normative acts. Look, the question is, what can any institution do that doesn't have that kind of act? And that was repeated for several years in a row, and most interestingly: it wasn't a negative report, it was a qualification. Furthermore, it says, keeping records of the property is said to be kept messyly, contrary to the prescribed accounting standards etc. and that simply many assets are not included in the records. I ask all of you, "Do we know what that means?" If you don't have any means, any assets in the records, then someone, anyone, anyone, I don't, of course, alienate that property and nothing happened, because it's not in the records, etc., etc. So there's a lot of things that we really need to discuss here. And I agree that we spend too little time at our sessions discussing these issues. I also agree with the assessments that Parliament must not in any way amnesty itself of this responsibility, because we are responsible for monitoring the implementation of the spending of all budgets, i.e. the budget of the BiH institution.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30270	Thank you. Discussion, Sadik Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30271	I had two replicas. I still have a few things to say, because obviously, there have been some discussions here, downplaying the work of the State Office for Auditing us all, and our commission and... this Parliament. I responsibly claim that in this area, as far as the audit is concerned, a lot of shifts have been made. And when it comes to financial audits, I think we've done a pretty good job here. It's... since the beginning of our work... Office for... Great Britain with us regularly attends our public hearings. We got the biggest commendation from... and... A Mušević that does everything with us. 96 And fellow Sokolović said, "If necessary, Parliament should be in control of the spending of public funds." We need another focus, an impact review. In my opinion, the financial audit has reached a minimum. In our public hearings, those who have an opinion with the reserve said they had already removed more than half of the recommendations, they said everyone will be positive this year, so the effect has already been achieved. Positive opinion: 2006 — 5, 2007. — 11, 2008. - 24. Do you know what that shift is from 5 to 24? Here, this year we introduce that disciplinary responsibility, if this Parliament adopts, and punishment 10%. I think the focus of our action should be the impact review, because there's a lot of space, there's a lot of institutions that spend a lot, and the effect of their work is zero. And the financial audit is okay, believe me, we've got all the credit, and you follow it up. As far as I'm concerned, I think we did it. The problem is lower levels: Federation, canton, municipality, there's not even 10% audit done, and we've already... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30272	Thank you. Fortunately, we've united the debate with these three laws, although I must say I'm not sorry, because it seems to me that the discussion was very fruitful. There was no story of who was from which people, entities, even from the same party, people with arguments debated. I think it was a good debate and it was worth the patience for that debate. The only thing left is, before I conclude the debate, to ask Mr. Novaković if he will withdraw these laws before the end of the debate, because I must say, it means that the debate on point 13, point 14, point 16. Moving on to further agenda, point 15. Ad. 15. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Road Safety on Roads in BiH – Proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković, Law No 01, 02-02-5-92709, of 13. Ten. 2009 (first reading) In the first reading, this law was delivered in regular procedure 13. Ten. The Constitutional Commission gave its opinion 2. 11. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications submitted Opinion 3. 11th and supported the principles of the law. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30274	I thank you, Chairman. 97 Here, I would just like to ask the Proposer about three things that he stated in the reasons for the law being passed because, in my opinion, this is one detail in traffic which, perhaps, will further confuse, burden participants in traffic – whether to turn on, turn off the lights etc. And here there are certain findings that I would like to call on, to information whether it really is a qualified source of information, which is that: under 1. it is said in the reasons for the adoption to show that the number of accidents has not been reduced; the second finding is that an increased number of fires on vehicles that had a car accident during the summer; and the third finding that lit lights increase fuel consumption, and increased consumption negatively affects environmental pollution and global warming of the planet in general. These are certain findings. This third I know that there is certain technical data that the consumption of 0.2 liters per 100 km is increased if the light is turned on, but for these two first findings I would really like you to specify in the next one. I have supported the adoption of this law in this commission, but I would like you to specify the sources that confirm it so that we can define ourselves, and that's why we can do it and that's useful for traffic users. And, another: whether or not there is, there is no indication here whether there are sanctions if you drive with lights on in those times when there is no, because there is no mention here whether there are sanctions if you drive with lights on at a time when it is not allowed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30275	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Željko Kuzmanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, not to be obliged and to make my contribution as soon as possible to finish. I support the principles of this amendment and the addition of the Transport Safety Act, with the fact that I will probably retain the right to act in this part of the amendment. Namely, it says here: 'At the time of driving a motor vehicle during the winter period, from 15 November to 15 April, there must be a short light on the vehicle.' I think it's a better formulation used in Croatia: 'During motor vehicle management during the winter reckoning of time', so I'm going to try to change this text, with this change of text. That's how much I support everything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30277	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30278	Well, I didn't answer at the beginning, the right to tell you I've been uncomfortable all day, now I just understand these Council of Ministers running away when their laws are, because it's a little awkward, is it, constantly explaining this? But here, I think I'll start with Mr. Kuzmanović's remarks. It's not a question of whether or not we're going to say 15. ... until April 15th when it is this winter period, or we will define it this way. If they change in the meantime, neither do I, these dates, it's not controversial. As far as my colleague Nanić's question is concerned, I must say that, to be honest, I have seen some shows, because in a number of European countries, too, now, they are also resorting to the introduction of this, and then I have seen some analyses on these shows where they explained it, so they didn't give exactly what I was explaining here. So, I don't have statistics on us, I don't even know if there are any, but I'm... If I had that data, I would have brought them out here, so I'd say so many and so many vehicles were, but on those TV shows, when they explained that they didn't achieve the effects, exactly, in this way, the traffic experts there, say, when, I think, there were conversations in Austria about this, in Austria, and then they said... that by their analysis there, these experts didn't mean a reduction in the number of traffic accidents, that there was an increase in the number of cars that were set on fire in traffic accidents, and that, I don't know, fuel consumption, though, is something minimal, larger when using lights, and of course, as far as environmental impacts are concerned, i.e., above all, the warming of the atmosphere is significant. Even there are some data, which I didn't remember, how many cars affect the warming of the atmosphere, but these were some really serious figures. And then it is said that in the EU, it is mostly suggested that all EU countries move to this principle that no light is used in the summer reckoning. Of course, there are no penalties provided for if someone uses the lights. We know before when it wasn't an obligation to use it, so when we didn't move on to this law, those who used it in that period were not necessarily used. I don't know how much I've been able to explain. So, I haven't found it in us, maybe there's this analysis in us, I don't know if it's being summed up, but I haven't found the result, the explanation is the result, so I repeat, I think it was the introduction of the law in Austria, and then I followed it to them, and I saw that they sort of explained it this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30279	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 17. Ad. 17. Proposal for a Law on Student and Student Standard in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01,02-7-96/09, of 14. Ten. 2009 (first reading) 99 Ambassador Denis Bećirović passed the law in regular procedure 14. Ten. Constitutional Commission Opinion on constitutional basis and principles delivered 2. The 11th and supported both principles and constitutional basis. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Ambassador and Proposer, Mr Denis Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30281	I have to say at first that I will use this law to explain all the 10 minutes I have at my disposal. It might be better if we keep talking about this law tomorrow, but here we are, if we're going to work, it's not a problem. First of all, I would like to remind myself of the fact that the BiH Parliament has already adopted a set of education laws. Therefore, this Parliament has already adopted the Law on Pre-school Education, the Law on Primary and Secondary Education, the Law on secondary vocational education and the Law on Higher Education, although it is evident in all these laws that the issue of student and student standards is hardly mentioned. The law is in line with the White Paper recommendations, so the joint education development strategy in BiH is in line with the Education Development Strategy in BiH from 2007 to 2015, as well as with messages from BiH citizens in the framework of the 2002 Education Ministry reform. There are a number of reasons why one such law should be passed at BiH level. The very fact that this situation today is extremely colorfully arranged is saying enough that this law should be passed. This certainly is no consumption, this is the best investment for the future of BiH, and I think our task as a legislative body is to create equal opportunities for young people in this country. Bringing this law would certainly contribute to the return of faith in the better future of young people throughout the country. This law regulates the rights of students and students. The rights of students are listed as the right to accommodation, nutrition, the right to student credit, student scholarship, educational work, cultural and sports activities, transport privileges etc. Also, rights for students are provided for the right to diet, accommodation, credit, scholarship, etc., etc. the right to transport. I must say, right now, these rights are not regulated by any law. The point of today's debate is whether we will allow students and students in BiH, and I recall hundreds of thousands of young people, to enjoy these rights in this country or not. I have here the framework law on primary and secondary education in BiH. This law in Article 3 sub-d) speaks of ensuring equal opportunities for education. In Article 36 of that Law, the same applies to equal opportunities for conservation. These provisions undoubtedly impose the need to specify such solutions, i.e. the need to adopt one such law. What kind of state is it in which young people, for example, have one right in some cities, and in other cities they do not have nearly that right. The child is a child no matter where he lived in BiH. 100 The Law on Higher Education, too, is very important to say, in Article 36, speaks of some student rights. However, it is such a shame that as student rights in the existing state-level law, they are listed only as being able to attend lectures. Under 2. use libraries and the right to recognise and transfer points between accredited higher education institutions. Thus, it is evident that the Law on Higher Education in Articles 36, 37, 38, and 39 did not even correspond to the needs of students. Currently in the Federation of BiH, we have five student centres: in Sarajevo, Tuzli, Zenica and Mostar (one is the University, and the other is the University of "Djamal Bedjedić"). According to official statistics, 68,072 students are currently studying in the Federation. Out of that total number, all 5% are located in student homes, well below the European average. There's no better situation on the premises of another entity. There are currently five student centres in the RS where there are around 2,210 students. At the “Nikola Tesla” Student Centre in Banja Luka there are 1,211 students, in the Zvornik Student Centre 65, at the University Centre “Lukavica” 267, in the Student Centre “Pale” 617 and in Trebinj 50 students. For this matter, it is very important to make a comparative analysis of what is what we have in this area in BiH and what is the situation in the environment and in Europe. For example, Montenegro has prescribed that a student of every public institution has the right to accommodation, food, student credit, scholarship for the best students, participation of transport, improvement, health care, etc., all that we do not have today at BiH level. Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, exactly what is called the ministry, has five types of scholarships. Number one for talented students, number two for students who study deficits, number three for students with severe social status, number four for disabled students, number five for students who were in children's homes and number six for students with disabilities who are in postgraduate studies. I'm just making this a parallel and wondering if any of it exists in our country. At the annual level in the Republic of Croatia, there are around 2,500 new scholarships annually, and 74 million kunas have been allocated in 2009 alone. Croatia also provides a subsidisation of regular students for about 12,000 such students and even for the accommodation of students in private centres. And for this purpose, that right was used in the Republic of Croatia by about 7,000 students. A number of university centres - Osijek, Split, Rijeka - subsidize the transport of students, and Zagreb has made a complete decision on free transport for all regular students. It is based in 2008 and a special National Foundation for Supporting Student and Student Standard in the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Serbia has also very systematically arranged this area and counted all these student rights and secured the institutions that implement it. In Hungary, as early as 1997, the Ministry of Education and Culture adopted student cards. On the basis of these student cards in Hungary, students have reduced public transport tickets, have many other discounts, etc. In Norway, for example, there are two main systems of support for students in regular secondary education, and others for students attending university education. One of the main rules is that education loans are freed, say, interest during their studies. The fixed amount in the Norwegian loan for an average student in secondary education is about 87,600 Norwegian crowns or slightly more than 10,000 euros. 101 It is interesting, for example, that in Hungary, according to their statistics, only in 2005 over 52% of regular students at their universities achieved some kind of work. We know very well what the situation is in BiH and that college graduates do not have some form of employment, and especially not students who study. It's a similar situation in Germany. There is also a special law in Poland on funds and loans for students. The State provides support in two ways, in the form of grants and in the form of loans. Slovenia also supports students and students. The Swedish system and otherwise Scandinavian is perhaps the best example: all education in the state school system and universities is free of payments. Subsidisation of students in Sweden is intended to cover student costs during their studies. Otherwise, the subsidy system in Sweden is part of social assistance. The same examples can be found in the UK, etc., etc. Here I am looking at the time, so I only have 30 seconds left. Today I call upon my colleagues to support this law in our first reading, so to uphold the principles of the law. I am fully open to any quality amendments that can follow, so to improve this text. I believe that this law is fully in the interest of all students and students, no matter what nation they belong to and where they live in this country, and I call, of course, once again to support this law, and if necessary, we can, in accordance with our rules of procedure and open a public debate on this law. I believe it would be good at least to hear through this public debate students from all the universities in BiH what their needs are, etc. Here, thanks again.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30282	I thank the esteemed representative Bećirović. The following has been reported to the esteemed representative, Vesna Šain.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30283	Dear chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on student and student standards in BiH is trying in the most harsh way to transfer competences from entity to joint BiH authorities. This is another attempt to centralize power. The reasons set out in this proposal for a law on student and student standards could be said to be arbitrary, so the proposer is both useful and in some senses such as 'charolic state from mid-to-centre', 'commentation of sporadic solutions' etc., and does not indicate that this area is well regulated in the RS entity by law, and that the Federation of BiH has not done so, so I suggest that the Proposer prescribes that it means taking solutions that are good. And it also mentions countries in the environment that handled it well, so I don't see why it hasn't included anything in this proposal when it's already talking about things that are much better solved there. So the 2006 Law on Student Standard regulated this area and regulated the student standard area much better than this proposal by this 2008 law. The bill itself is inconclusive and vague and difficult to apply. So it's not practical at all. It is impossible and impossible for the Ministry of Civil Affairs to carry out all these responsibilities listed here. It lists 30 responsibilities that the Ministry of Civil Affairs should carry out. So'requires the conditions for the admission of students to accommodation and nutrition institutions, calls for a competition for the admission of students to accommodation and nutrition institutions, determines the percentage of parental participation, announces the competition for the granting of credits, approves 102 credit assignments outside those criteria, calls for a grant competition, prescribes height, method and procedure for the exercise of the right to regress and transport students'. And if I didn't list all these responsibilities, there are 30 of them, the promoter knows what they are and everyone who has read the materials, so I would now ask the question, "How will the Ministry of Civil Affairs, in addition to its already existing competences and the tasks it is carrying out, also accomplish the 30 powers set out here in this bill? Did the promoters have in mind that in order to fulfil each of these powers, it is also necessary to adopt sublegal acts that define each jurisdiction and are they trying to take away the powers that are very well functioning in this way?’ And another objection to the content of the law that is not acceptable (but, if it is ever adopted) is that neither the regulated rights of students or students with special needs are well foreseen, and you said it was regulated in other countries. So you didn't put your own students' rights and obligations with special needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30284	Replica, the esteemed second vice president, Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30285	I'm sorry, I'm not in my jacket. Practically I understood everything you were saying, I'm not replicating, it's your right. But here's about you saying "in the roughest way." What else could that be, gentle or something? The man proposed the law transparently, you don't need to use the words 'in the roughest way'. Here, you can say try it. And I'm glad to hear, here's your argument that in RS it's all perfectly arranged. Great, there's no problem. So I don't see what it is that's controversial. You will not support this law, you have this area perfectly decorated and office.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30286	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30287	Okay, as a proposer, I'm obliged to say a few words. First, we should remind our distinguished colleague that there are no joint institutions in BiH, there are BiH institutions, and that issue about BiH institutions, every MP has taken an oath from this Parliament. So let's get this straight about the institutions first. Secondly, I am still standing at the point I presented in the opening statement, which is that there is no law in any entity in the BiH state. It is true, there I agree with you, that at the level of the RS entity there is a Law on Student Standard, here it is. Of course I consulted him, but this isn't a student standard law, it's a student and student standard law. So that's one thing. I think it would be at least correct for us to advocate that all students and students in this country have those rights, at least, which students and students have, here for starters, in neighbouring countries, in the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. All this talk of jurisdiction or non-103 jurisdiction would have full meaning that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH did not adopt the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Medium Professional Education, the Law on Primary and Secondary Education and the Law on Pre-school Education and Education over the previous years. Since these laws have been passed, it is quite logical, and in these laws we find provisions that point to the need to pass such a law, that we try to pass one of these laws. You don't have to approach this story in a way that someone is going to take something away from someone, I'm looking at it completely from the other side. No provision of this law is meant to take something away, but rather to clearly define certain rights. I remind you once again that I made it very clear that I am completely open to certain suggestions. In that sense, I fully agree with you in this final part of your presentation where you mentioned these students with special needs. I did not enlist them in this law, but I would very much like to see your proposal in another reading, in amendment form, to install it. Because I'm afraid at this point there is no willingness to accept and this minimum part of the right for students and students, and here, in that part, I fully agree with you that this law should be upgraded. Moreover, I said it would be good if we adopted the principles of this law today, to open a public debate and to hear for the first time the opinions of students and students in Banja Luka, and in Sarajevo, and Tuzla, and in Mostar, etc. - what they really think about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30288	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30289	If they agree that we don't need a law like that, then we really don't need one, but it would be good to hear those people at last. And finally, here's the Honorable Chairman, I'm asking another question, here's you. ... Here's to bring down this law, but I'm asking if you'd like to support the law as it is in the Republic of Serbia or in the Republic of Croatia that guarantees the rights of students and students. The point of this story is that there is no law that regulates their rights in this country. If that's how we look at this problem, it's a whole different story. If we look at someone taking something away, that's a shame, then it's a whole other story.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30290	Time! Two replicas. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30291	Eh, Denise, who doesn't know you, and if he did listen to you, he'd say that you speak sweetly of Serbia, as if it were another MP. It's all clear here. I don't think we should waste any time. We, when we spoke, mean we have a significant part of the legislative activities in those areas that are at BiH level. We also spoke on the Constitutional Legal Commission, although I am sorry that there is a constitutional basis for, say, something that is someone else's jurisdiction, and let's say something where the Constitutional Court is 104 jurisdiction exclusively of the BiH state and we failed to find a constitutional basis, but here we've been looking for it somewhere and I wouldn't waste time, we could. My colleague clearly elaborated on why it... _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Yeah, probably. I understand that some others seem to understand it better, but I appreciate that since the chairman of the Constitutional Commission doesn't go all day, he probably doesn't go through these objections and remarks about it now, but that's what we're going to discuss there. I don't think there's any need, I understand this story that in this way, it's known that BiH is arranged, it's known that Serbia is arranged. At one point, taking from Serbia what is appropriate, perhaps if you took it more often from Serbia, you would probably gain that kind of trust that we can discuss jurisdiction. When you talk about the way there and how you handled certain members, if you saw the realization, then you would encounter a series of impossible situations that it is impossible to apply such a law without a number of other things that are essentially called a classical transfer of jurisdiction. You know how it's done. Here, the vice president said the remark 'on the roughest' so I don't know what I'd call it, I'm trying to gently explain this to Denis that this can't be done like this, because probably, if I were to ask for urbanism from the municipal level to the state level, the SDP would be the chief advocate that it can't. I think it's a local thing, and God Bog the state gets involved in these local things, because it's the jurisdiction of the community and what the SDP would do without urbanism and without, well, so without their student standard and without this part, and I think our elaborate is absolutely clear. So, to be clear, this subject can be discussed and discussed, but it has a methodology of how it goes and transfer jurisdiction, so it goes in order. You have MPs in the RS who can further strengthen the law in the RS. You can also strengthen this activity in the Federation Parliament that the Federation Parliament will also receive this legislative framework, and if it is this third entity, it does not have any legislative framework and you can lend it to them now, because they will need the mass of these laws to do so in some way, but the BiH state does not need that law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30293	Dear Ambassador Vesna Šain, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30294	Well, here's what I've been called by the promoter to answer the question. Here, I have a proposal to prescribe legislation from the RS, lobbying and initiating its adoption in the Federation of BiH Parliament, and we will later discuss whether there is a chance, whether it needs to be at BiH level.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30295	Dear Ambassador Mirjana Malić, replica. Here you go. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30296	Well, here I am, the esteemed chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, and I must say that I'm replicating my esteemed colleagues from the RS, because it seems to me that for all this time trying so hard not to lose some authority we've lost our sense of the future of this country if youth is spoken of. I really don't mean to be pathetic, even less I think I need to give you a statement, but our education with framework laws and framework rights that don't commit anything, which we haven't yet implemented with sublegal acts, has already brought several generations of 'the bologna' into the situation that their diplomas are completely worthless in the country, and especially in the world. We agreed on a bologna to create a mobility that we can't make in a 30km relationship, because for God's sake, we need to see an invisible entity barrier, etc. Well, I'm not going to advocate either, not the other, not the third for a solution, I'm just saying that we don't drop the obligation in this country that there should be a number of letters in this country, not a number of illiterate ones, and unfortunately, by keeping ingenuity by entities, we're the country where we're going to need to reopen analphabetic courses.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30297	Dear Member Azra Alajbegović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30298	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, actually this first part of my replica to my colleague Vesna Šain has actually taken Professor Malić in just one other form and I was actually going to say that investing in youth, investing in education, investing in future generations that want to stay in BiH and that they are building, that they live in it, that they are raising their children and making it perspective for life, something that is the imperative of every serious man. As for the copying of this law and the proposal to prescribe a law from the RS, I would actually first propose to read the Constitution and... to see that the law is impossible to prescribe in Parliament of the Federation of RS, given... the constitutional arrangement of the Federation of BiH and RS. So, please, don't offer us illogical, inadequate, lifeless suggestions because they can in a certain way only irritate, and they can't be constructive. We are here to build a constructive dialogue, to create an environment where young people need to be educated by the highest European standards, with imperative education throughout their lives, and I think youth is something that we absolutely have to invest in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30299	First Deputy Chairman Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30300	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a concrete replica will be a respected representative of Kalabić, but to abuse, I will neither use this whole time at my disposal. This law is an example of a good idea that won't come to life because I don't think there's a solution in it, regardless of whose jurisdiction it is. So I'm not talking about jurisdiction right now. There are no solutions that ensure the implementation of good wishes. So, there's a terrible lot of good wishes in this law, and as far as they're concerned, everyone would be happy to support them, whoever this law is, or this Parliament or entity, or 106 cantonal, or maybe municipal councils somewhere because there are questions that would probably be in their jurisdiction, but I don't see what instruments are for the realisation of this law: it takes a lot of money, and the key problem is money. I'm not sure that we by this defined law can make those who should give that money to pay you. And now I'm going to be a replica of the distinguished representative Kalabić. Don't worry about the third entity, we already have laws done much better than the RS and the Federation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30301	Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30302	Of the many things I've heard today, this is the best thing for me, the most positive thing that anything in this country is ready and that shouldn't wait. And I'm glad it's always ready. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Clearly and I'm glad, it's positive, we don't mind, it's a positive contest like if they're better now so we're gonna fight again that one day we're better, it's not controversial, it's one positive thing. However, I want to say something, and here I agree with Mr. Lozančić. So, it's not a dispute, we're talking about a matter that is close to all of us, it's a matter of life matter, but at the same time, as responsible people should... and I can't agree with what colleague Alajbegović is talking about. She doesn't want justice with any structures she brought here. So, the kids because of the supernaded Federation, as she said, children there shouldn't go to colleges or schools or anywhere, because the structure is what it is, and that's not good there, and we're not doing anything there right now. Does that mean you can't pass any regulations? And now that I'm not opening up, you know the story. You probably, I know how you'd like it, and you're not gonna do it right. It's now for some other debates. You can't convince me that you can't regulate this area legally in the Federation as required by the Federation constitutional structure. But as it happens, you'd probably want some of them out there not to participate, or in some way in your own way, to say again, I'm not opening that question, and because you think you can't or don't want to fix it, we need to do something right now that's here, now I have to tell you, totally nakaradically. It's now, I didn't want to talk about it, it's now said Mr. Lozančić. What are we gonna offer the kids tonight? The law and tell a colorful lie: we solved you tonight, you have the best law in the region. Well, they're not stupid kids, and they'll say money, like they tell you at home what you're selling me that fog, they say, where are the money for this. How are we gonna handle this? How many institutions does it take and how long do we have to make a change to do that? The authorities are lined up now, and we said we didn't mind, gentlemen. We go according to procedure as we go to see if we can transfer that jurisdiction to BiH level and when we pass it, change all the laws, adopt this law and finish the story. And what's so controversial about that? Why does everyone get so upset about that story when they're supposed to go to Banja Luka and open the jurisdictional transfer procedure? What's the matter? And if that's good, we'll pass it on, if that's good. But in the sense of me, it kind of disgusts me, but here I'm going to have some of the flossulas about writing, illiterate. Don't do that, it's a story of demagogy that's certainly not going through here. If you think there are no hundreds of millions of 107 marks available in Sarajevo in some black funds that you can give to the children of Sarajevo and where you can do so much better than in this parliament, show that activity there around children and about it. Don't be here, like, somebody's here against the student standard, someone's here against something we can do for the kids.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30304	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30305	I'm telling you, at this point, there's nothing we can do for them to be realistic. We can only use this law to give them some kind of colorful lie.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30306	The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić, is a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30307	Mr. Kalabić, so around this nakarada Federation, I don't think there's really any point in saying that. Here, I'm taking an apology not to call another entity by another name. I mean, it really doesn't make sense. So, if we want to understand Mr Bećirović's initiative, I think we should understand it the following way. They're simply trying to level this country with the conditions of that student and student standard. In the RS, people feel that this should not be evened out, that it should not be integrated in some way, that it should be kept on entities. Okay. And so, that's what it's all about. But this is a time of integration, not a time of isolation. So this is the time of integration. You'll see that our students from BiH are going out, going to be in the dorms outside. Why not be students and students in BiH together, have the same chances of being in Banja Luka, being in Sarajevo, etc. Let there be entity laws. Here, let's agree, let's bring these two entity laws in line. At least let's do something in terms of integration bh. Guys. Believe me, it hurts a man so much incarceration. So, whatever you're talking about, we've got a deal. No, I congratulate you, great, but let's do some sort of country as a whole.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30308	Dear Member Azra Alajbegović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30309	Well, I'm just sorry that Mr. Drago Kalabić didn't understand me, but I'm even more sorry that I can't lead the conversation in a way that he understands me, I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30310	We have another replica now. Dear Ambassador Željko Kuzmanović. Here you go. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30311	Just for a little while. I want to explain. The Federation's constitutional arrangement can't be an alibi for the transfer of jurisdiction. Here would be a more positive example if Mr Bećirović had tried to make such a law in the Federation through his club of MPs in the Federation Parliament, so that if such a law proved effective and said, here are the people, we did something in the Federation, let's try to pass it on to the state, I would understand it. But it can't be a bad constitutional arrangement of the Federation's alibi for passing laws like this. I guess Mr. Kalabić thought of that, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30312	Replica – very quickly these replicas change – the honourable MP Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30313	Well, let me remind Mr Kuzmanović that the Federation's constitutional solution is an integral part of BiH's constitutional solution, so if something is wrong with that constitutional solution to the Federation, let's say BiH is not a good constitutional solution. I don't think we're going to address one small piece of something, but let's go to where it belongs.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30314	We're moving on to discussions. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić has managed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30315	Well, I really thought we'd end it in a way that we understand each other. If you think we don't understand things, then you're wrong. You know, let's do it at BiH level, and you've shown it in what way. Well, we're not naive here. Nobody's here since yesterday. In the story, if you think when we talked about the Federation arrangement, a colleague said it wasn't good there or that something wasn't right there, fix it, work it out. And we have problems and we don't transfer our problems that way, you know. If you could come and sort it out, it was given constitutionally to us to solve it, as it was given to you. I don't think you understand things, because you get a little bit into constitutional matter, you won't be angry, which is your good side, it's your good side. Because if you wanted to get into it, then you could totally, now you could show you ten things here that you need to do, and the first thing is that yours is such a Federation to tell your prime minister tonight how much money it takes, and he, well, you know how much he breathes on the gills and how much money he needs to make for Mr Bećirović's law. Then why don't you say so? _________(?) 109 [[microphone is not enabled]] So please ask the man, let's speak our language. Under 2nd, Mr Belkić spoke of integration. No Niko normal can be against positive integrations, but there are a lot of things we need to work out, Mr. Belkić. You know, we can't solve and make a college mosque, and then we can go into integration. Someone won't, they respect the mosque, but he won't. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30318	Before I give my word to those who have made a request for a replica, I would like to warn you that it has been 18.00 hours and that in the way we have opened this issue we will probably not be able to complete this session. That's why we need to figure out if we should continue tomorrow at 9:00 or work tonight as long as we can. If you want to finish this job tonight, then I don't think the replicas of this and this debate are going that way. For that reason, I'm asking you to give up your replicas and go ahead and finish tonight's session, and if not, then I'm going to have to interrupt it and pick it up tomorrow at 10.00. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30319	I must say, I don't understand how Mr. Kalabić, an esteemed colleague, is having such an unargumented discussion on this subject. So once again I want to remind him that he is with all of us in this House, it seems to me that we are a large majority, we have passed the Law on Higher Education of BiH. And that law, colleague Kalabić,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30320	The frames.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30321	Well, here's the Framework Law, in Article 36, I quote, 'Students have the following rights', and it prescribes what these rights are. So we already have a law that speaks of student rights. And why so much talk now if we're going to define it at a state level or not, and we have a law that regulates it. That's one side of the story. The other side is the story that what is currently written in this law is below each level when it comes to other countries and the rights students enjoy in other countries. And this whole story, the essence of this story, is that we allow students and students in this country to have those rights that they have in other countries. If that's the way we look at it, it's a whole different story, not to go on some completely different track, so it would be that you support Mr. Lozančić's idea of a third entity, probably because you're not familiar with Nick's cartography that implies that this third entity takes over the entire Bosnian savour. If that's the support, it's no problem, we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30322	We're on our way. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30323	... a colleague of Kalabić who spends all day pouring gas and fire on the oil. So there are no mosques, Kalabic, at Sarajevo University. Where did you get that? Neither are there any green sidewalks that are only for Muslims, as they once spoke on this one debate show there, nor does our prime minister have a plane that will go after a war criminal who has confessed, let's say, that he is guilty of the grave sufferings of the people in BiH. You know that plane belongs to all the peoples and to all those who paid in the budget and bought the plane. Nor are the forests in this part of BiH called Muslim forests, and they belong to everyone, you know, there's no such thing. Nor has this entity been welcomed by this one nation, so that they will continue to defend it, so that they may be killed by a hundred when they try to return to their doorstep. That's not happening here, Mr. Kalabić. And you keep giving us lessons, and now think about if there's anything about you, this whole thing I just said.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30324	Green sidewalks? 111
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30325	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30326	I thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30327	Just a little patience, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30328	I thank you, Your Honor. So, you should, I support the principles... of passing this law. I wish the promoter had developed these criteria a little bit closer on the rights of students and students. So, to regulate these criteria there that not everyone has the right to this accommodation, it's only important that he is a student or a student. So, you should have worked it out, these criteria. And because of the weather, so when it comes to this story about entities, that's the consequence of this fart story, that's where everything is worked out, that grass green, the road. The lines in Prud were elaborated, however, fortunately, so it failed. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30329	It's okay, it's okay, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30330	So this country doesn't need entities in the future, either first, second, third, neither. So this state should be one normal state without any entities, which is what we stand for.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30331	Thank you. Here, first vice president, Mr. Niko Lozančić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30332	Thank you. Well, in order not to be so misunderstood, I don't think we're going to be discussing either the first, or the second, or the fifth entity today. It was one joking intrusion to comment on a distinguished colleague, Kalabić, so I hope so, and I would like you to understand it that way. And as for student and student standards, why did I say I was absolutely into it? I, unlike some of you, was not to say from a large number, at the student centers and why I was to improve that. I was fraternizing when the students told me, well, now it's good, every Friday we have hot water. This is one example alone, and I think that this is a sufficiently picturesque 112 example and I would like it to be such a situation – however, it was a few years ago – today it is nowhere in any student centre in BiH, even if it was not 15 laws. We have a complex constitutional system in which in the Federation this jurisdiction is originally in cantons and everyone is being kidnapped for that jurisdiction just wanting to consume it. When they have to give money, it's not theirs, it's somebody else's. I spoke in that context. I wouldn't want to be misunderstood. So, everything is nice, I would write more rights in this law, just thinking about how to make those to whom we make these rights really be realized and that what is declared or declared through the law be realized without just being a promise.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30333	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 18. Ad. 18. Commission Report College on Seeking Understanding on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH – Proposer: Ambassador Bajazit Jašarević, Law No: 01-02-4-83/09, of 16. Nine. 2009 (first reading) The proposal for a law at the 62nd session, held on 14.10, did not receive an entity majority, no consent was reached in the College, and you received a Report of Consensus. In the second round of voting, the House will decide on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Point 19. Ad. 19. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Control and Insurance Agency for the Forced Disposal of property acquired by criminal acts and the management of the seized property – Proposer: SDP Club, Law No: 01-02-5-81/09, of 14. Nine. 2009 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30338	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I do apologize for the fatigue and time, but I have been rational in my work so far, however, I must say a few sentences. I am therefore a designated member of this Special Investigation Commission who submits this report today, and, as you know, during the work of this committee, I have submitted an irrevocable resignation in which I have explained in detail and transparently the reasons for the resignation but, unfortunately, so far I have not been relieved of the duties of a member of the Special Investigation Commission, although my resignation has been and has remained irrevocable. At the beginning, as a appointed and yet unresolved member of this commission, I want to fence myself from this Special Investigation Commission report because it is not a report, it is a cheap farce and a humiliation and ridicule of both this Parliament and this commission and MPs. As I have already said several times in this home, this commission was formed so that it could be known in advance that the result could be nothing more than this information and from this report. First, I voted in this House to conclude that this commission is investigating car purchases in all the Council of Ministers' ministries, and the commission's task is to examine car procurement only for the needs of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. 114 Secondly, when adopting the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Special Investigation Commission, the majority said that the work of this committee was in principle closed to the public, and that the Commission could approve the public presence which unfortunately did not happen in the work of this Commission, which I believe is also talking about this commission and how it worked. This is neither a commission nor a debate on such issues as could endanger the state and state secret with media presence. It is common for the rules of procedure to state in these cases that the Commission's work is in principle open to the public, and that the Commission may decide that some sessions should be closed or parts of the sessions etc. The way this Special Investigation Commission worked closed to the public has largely contributed to the result of that folk's being: eaten by a donkey wolf. Why it was necessary for this commission to investigate car procurement in all Council of Ministers' ministries at the same time. If this were the case, they would see the same bidders circulating, that there are exclusive Bosniak, Serbian and Croatian suppliers of vehicles, that they have so divided the market and cooperated and cooperated with each other in applying to tenders, etc. What I, as a member of this commission, could not understand and could not get a rational explanation on the claim that the purchase of a 219,000 KM field vehicle in which 80,000 KM of additional equipment was installed is justified in the situation of the serious economic and social crisis and the recession that tramples BiH. I think there is no moral or rational standoff for such a claim as to justify the purchase of such a car at a time when the rationalisation of public spending in all normal countries is primarily anti-reactional and anti-crisis measures. The technique at which the price of the car purchased in one day reached the price from 130,000 to 219,000 KM and by which 47 items of additional car equipment worth 80,000 KM was installed in one day is a story for itself. It would be interesting to hear the original comments how we are honored by citizens and workers in production and others when they read only part of the requirement from the list of additional equipment that is installed in the purchased car, including those for sports seats forward, leather verrana, electrical setting of both front seats with memory and support for the spine, velour spouts from the front and back, decorative art from aluminum, aluminum ornaments around the window and other. All she needed here was a driver's training for at least a year so she could use it all, that she could use it all. Of course, the Commission's record is missing, which would either establish or determine what all of this powerful additional equipment is really and built-in. Interestingly, after listing 47 items of additional equipment in the invitation to tender, it is said that suppliers are not allowed to supply alternative offers. To those who know this job and who this job is close to, they know what it means. I do not consider it smart or rational to extend the authority to this Special Investigation Commission to investigate car procurement for the purposes of all ministries in the Council of Ministers, nor agree with the appointment of a new commission with this task. Don't let us just be ashamed and embarrass ourselves in this difficult and serious time. This is too serious to be approached so unseriously. It is only rational and correct in this time and after all to ask the D.A. for an investigation into car procurement in all ministries and institutions and to file reports on the results of the investigation. In that direction, I'll suggest the conclusion in writing. As for me personally, therefore, after my participation in the work of the Special Investigation Commission, I am deeply convinced that there are elements of organised crime in the procurement and in the car in question for the purposes of the Council of Ministers, which unfortunately became a rule of conduct and that 115 behave in similar situations both in other ministries and in other institutions. In the end, I don't report for this next act, or where it's supposed to be, where it's reputing myself for my resolution of a member of the Special Investigation Commission, so I'm asking this house to relieve me, because my resignation is irrevocable, because I don't want to be a member of a committee where I'm going to be embarrassed and ridiculed as an MP. If this house doesn't resolve me, I'll simply be forced unilaterally not to work on that committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30339	It depends, if we adopt this report and do not adopt the conclusions, you are certainly resolved so that there is no need for us to discuss it. Discuss, Honourable Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I think what the Special Investigation Commission did was interfere in the work of the auditors, not what I did when I proposed this law. Namely, the Commission took its own role as auditor, so the Commission finally found that all had been carried out transparently in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. I'd like to see the auditor's report on whether he's going to find out the same way or he's going to say that the Public Procurement Act has been violated as it often happens. She also took the law and found it justified to get a car. I think her job was to say if it was justified to get a car of 200 and a few thousand, not justifiable car purchase, because I don't know, so I guess no one took a car if he didn't need a car for the chairman, or if he didn't need a car for the chairman, he wouldn't have taken it. I'm guessing for the chairman he needs a car, that someone made an assessment, is just a question of whether he needed a 200 and a change of thousands of marks. It's a fundamental question that I think this committee should have answered. I, of course, will not support any of these proposals below, which implies that a commission is being re-enacted and is likely to come up with the same conclusions that this Commission has reached, nor will I support the conclusion that this one continues some further research because it has proved to be very high quality in this research. So when it comes to this, we see it from this report here, and what if people are free of money if they're going to write this for all the other cars, and I believe they will, because I don't see why they shouldn't write the same thing for everyone else, if anything, because they're cheaper. So, I don't think the investigation committee did the job we gave her here. That's the essential thing about this. We can support this and accept this report, no matter what we do, nothing will change. What it is is a finding that the Investigation Commission has not completed the work that Parliament has given her here. That's the whole point. Neither will this help the Secretary General nor will we help when it comes to this, nor will this help us, nor will it help us. But it is a sign to us that in future we do not need to form such committees, that in future we do not need to spend energy on these issues when there are institutions in this country dealing with this business and we need 116 of them to ask them to complete it and inform us, not that we form these investigative committees that can in principle lead to nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30341	You, Momo, voted for this committee. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30342	I agree with Mr. Novaković's discussion, only that there is no illusion that he is not waiting for the 2009 audit report because he will come after the 2010 elections.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30343	Maybe he'll be there. Denis Bećirović has a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30344	When we opened this agenda point, it would be our first turn to remind how this commission started working. We, as the House of Representatives, have reached a concrete conclusion in which it is said 'that the House of Representatives forms a Special Investigation Commission, with the aim of testing and delivering within 45 days... A representative home report containing data on all cars purchased by the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers from 15 April 2008 to 15 April 2009, accurate prices of car purchases, way of buying cars, justification for car purchase." As the promoter of this conclusion and the initiator of the establishment of this Special Investigation Commission, and I believe everyone else who voted for this commission to form, we meant that we would get data not only... for the chairman of the Council of Ministers but also from all the ministries in the Council of Ministers of BiH. We asked for this because six months earlier we received a reply from the finance minister that the Council of Ministers had not obtained cars but that the job had been done by the General Secretariat. However, when we went deep into this problem, we came to the realization that in fact the Secretary-General was only getting cars for the Council of Ministers of BiH. From that point of view, if we are to strictly stick to this formulation of the House of Representatives, the following should be determined: The Special Investigation Commission has completed its part of the work entrusted to him by the House of Representatives and has received all the necessary documentation when it comes to what the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers has obtained. We've got complete documentation. Unfortunately, here you see how it was voted, there is also this one vote "against", I was the one who was "against". I thought that as MPs you should not be delivering any narrowed report but that you should be given full documentation; part of this documentation and what is contained in the documentation, Honored colleague Dolić has now presented. The essence of this story, so there are not many vague things here: the chairman of the Council of Ministers bought a car of 219,000 marks. That's the question he's dealing with right now and the D.A.'s office, 117 what he's gonna say is whether it's legal or not. The Commission has committed itself to saying that this is economically justified, so that the purchase is justified by three votes "for" and two votes "against". Now, there's a little problem here, my colleague Okolić admitted after the session that he voted "against" by mistake, but that he also agrees that it is not justified, so this purchase, so in this situation it should be concluded that this is not exactly the Commission's report, because it is obvious that the majority in this commission also thinks it is not justified. So there are only two exits here. It's one thing to realize what we've got, it's facts. Some will interpret the fact that it is justified to spend 219,000 KM for that car. Probably all of the opposition and probably a good part of the people who are in the parliamentary majority will find that it is wrong, and let them interpret it as anyone will,...the citizens eventually give their assessment. The second question that is only open at the moment is whether this House of Representatives can reach some conclusion or put this commission to finish the job in the sense that it is now precisely saying that we are looking for information on all ministries. It's the only thing left open. If it has the ability to do so today and will, we will do so; if we do not, it should be determined that this Special Investigation Commission is unlike that of the Investigation Commission that we have formed around these donations that neither meets nor results. This one's done her part of the job. Whether he's going to continue this business or not, that's the will of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30345	Thank you. Discussion, honourable MP Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30346	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I want to say a few words as a member of this committee and as a member who took part in drawing up this report, because I participated in that last session of 14. On 10th, unlike some who did not participate in the session, today they take the right to comment and do not participate in most of the sessions held by this committee. First, first of all, I want to say that only the constitution of this committee was, by my deep conviction, extorted in this House, proven immediately after a month or two... because it was more than a month ago that this commission could not be established at all because of the indifference of the members who were appointed here to come and work on that commission. And when you barely began to look at each other in some way... to establish and conclude, when she started to work, it was again that one session had a quorum, the other had no quorum, and so it was invariably held by the committee's sessions. I am, as I am now convinced and firmly believe that this job that has been given as a task to this commission is actually a job that should be done by authorized state institutions. Someone mentioned the revision and it is true that the review will likely determine whether more competent, objectively, in a different way than this commission did, but it will establish and deliver its report probably in a joint report when it is audited in these Council of Ministers institutions. Also, someone mentioned some other state institutions that deal with these issues and no one argues. But when I was saying somewhere in September that there were 118 state institutions that would deal with this and make certain conclusions and make certain proposals on this matter that were being pursued, then some in every possible way tried only to get this commission to meet, so there was a situation that at the time of the session of the regular session of Parliament we went down the hall and the MPs gathered, the minors were brought into the hall across the hall to hold a session of this committee. So it was at any cost to hold this committee's session and to do so. Now, when this report came the way it came, and I want to, by the way, because I applied for the discussion, that and some incorrect allegations that were made here above all by fellow Dolić who said that this was in some way arbitrary, unambiguous, that this was unfounded what this commission did, so I concluded; I want to tell you that all these conclusions that this committee carried out here in this report were based on the documentation provided by the Council of Ministers Secretariat. And what he said, therefore, that the purchase of the mentioned car, counterpart Bećirović said that the sekretarijat said he was purchasing cars for the Council of Ministers, more specifically the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers said that the Council of Ministers' Secretariat was authorised to obtain cars only for the purposes of the Council of Ministers and for the purposes of the Secretariat, so not for any other ministry in the Council of Ministers. The conclusion of this parliament has just been said to examine the purchase of cars carried out by the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers in the period set out. And we, when we've been informed about it, the documentation that's been delivered, which I have here, and I have it even more that's not here, so since the announcement of the tender, from the collection of the tender documentation, the appointment of commissions, the reports of commissions, the minutes, it's all been delivered from the Secretariat, and based on that documentation, the conclusions of what they are are are were drawn, which was voted by three or two votes, so there were so many people who could vote. Never has this commission been in full shape to be able to work at full capacity. Therefore, on the basis of the documentation submitted and which we sought on two or three occasions as additional to be delivered to this commission was set out here as indicated, so that the expenditure incurred by the purchase of that car for the purpose of the chairman was in the capital expenditure plan for 2008, that the corresponding procedure carried out was in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and that, accordingly, there were commissions, that there were records, that there was documentation that was public and available, so the whole procedure was transparent. And now I don't see any reason why someone slows down who isn't more than half of this commission's sessions took part in the commission's work at all, that he slows down these conclusions that were made here and we couldn't even conclude anything but what we were given, I don't know, a few kilos of documentation that was delivered to us and given an insight. So, my proposal is as a member of this committee that Parliament accepts this report and the only thing that can possibly be debated, you can appoint another committee and the other committee again to give this task, and it will again receive that documentation that we have received and go through all of those jobs that we have been through and probably come to these conclusions. What we can possibly talk about today... is whether Parliament wants this investigative activity to expand to how many cars have been purchased in other Council of Ministers' ministries and whether it will extend the competence of this committee or will appoint some other committee, but I want to tell you, and that I will end up, that I am very skeptical of this Commission and some new Commission will do anything at all, and it is unnecessarily relevant to the time and resources of such committees, when we all know that there are official state institutions dealing with it and whatever this commission concludes in one way or another, this or that report, our report is not as relevant to any subsequent actions and actions that could be carried out as a review report by the prosecution and some other institutions dealing with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30347	Thank you. Discussion, Ambassador Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30348	Mr. Chairman, I would really like to conclude this item on the agenda as soon as possible, nothing qualitative, and we're not going to get quantitatively by exhausting ourselves with discussions and so I'm going to continue very briefly. I myself was against the formation of this commission, and I was reluctant and involved, just like my colleague Dolić, but in the end I have to say this also that my colleague Bećirović, who himself is a proponent of this initiative, is here and just before and nicely said. We have entered this work with one wrong vision, that is, the idea that it is really a vehicle procurement survey in all ministries. The conclusion turned out to be what it turned out to be, and then it ended up strictly responding to what it was like. In that context, the conclusion was to examine the justification for getting a car, not how much the car was paid and therefore here was my support that it was justified to get a car. I would ask you to vote on this: accepted or unacceptable. This committee is doing its job with this. Whether to go further into the process of examining car procurement by individual ministries, it is now an open question, but in any case I ask you to invent a second scheme of commission composition, not one or at least one representative of each party; they can also be representatives of five ruling parties, whose ministers and purchases, for this job. It's better than that... _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30350	Replica, honourable MP Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30351	It should be recalled in the shortest possible time that the task of the House of Representatives in this commission was to ensure that there was no dilemma that we should examine the exact prices of the cars purchased, the way in which the car was purchased and the justification of the purchase of the car. It's voted here. Now it's a whole other story that all those who voted had the intention of checking it through all the ministries, and here it comes down only to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. It's also true that 120 colleagues said there was an obstruction in the work. I have a exact table here, so when it was called which session, who responded, who didn't. I must say that the biggest obstructions in the work of this commission, it did not fall from the sky but formed this parliament, had MPs, precisely, Branko Dokić who has six calls and six missing. True, this last one you were present. Col. Ahmetović has been present twice, four times. Here's Milica Marković twice present, four times absent. On the other hand, here as chairman of the resignation commission, I must say that my colleague Mirko Okolić and my colleague, Adem Huskić, of the six calls, were present five times, and only once were absent. As long as we're bringing this story in, there are some facts that need to be found out so that we can have full insight.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30352	Dear President, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30353	Thank you. In fact, two things we can figure out here, which is whether it was legal or illegal to get these or this car, and we can find out that there was no illegality, and the whole other thing is a story of whether it's moral or not, and it's a question of justification of the creation of this investigative commission so we can have to determine whether it's moral or not. I am sorry that the SDP dropped smoke bombs were captured by MPs here in Parliament, believing they would find something illegal here, accusing the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I'm sorry that we're catching on to such cheap phases, and we're not making and we're not opening the story of important things in this country, the type where the moles in the SIPA don't let the end of the activity be seen to whom in the purse to carry 2 to 3 million in connection with the constructions here in Sarajevo, and that's a constant story: throwing smoke bombs by the SDP, which, unfortunately, many MPs here get caught. It was the same bomb in connection with the proposal for a law on student and student standards where I would ask our distinguished colleagues to show us in accordance with the Constitution how it can at least look in Canton Tuzla so that we all go there to show and see because I am a Tuzlan student and I wish that college had the image that it had before the war, and that if it was so well done where they could do the job all the way to BiH, then we would go and make it. Stop throwing smoke bombs, say things where the most crime, corruption is in the SDP. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Milica Marković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30355	So I just want to correct one of the inaccuracies that my colleague Bećirović said, he didn't really say why I wasn't. It's true that from six sessions, I was at two, and I wasn't on two because 121 that you never asked any of the members... to consult previously whether we were able to come to the session the day you wanted to be a committee session, and of which two of my absences were justified, but you won't say that. One time it was because I was at a meeting of the Council of Europe's Committee on Science and Culture, and the second time I was at a Council of Europe meeting in Strasbourg, and these are my two legitimate absences. And by the way, I'm going to tell you now that I've reported that just because you've initiated it, just because you've initiated this commission to be set up, I haven't been working in it since the beginning of its existence, but I've accepted the obligation to work and participate in it out of loyalty and discipline towards my parliamentary club. That's one thing. But when this parliament forms an investigative committee that will examine how much money it is and for what purpose it has spent a member of the presidency from your party, Mr Željko Komšić, going to America with the intention of lobbying for BiH at the sessions held that day he landed in New York or Washington already where and why he led his family members and why he ran all the world and spent money that was not planned at all, there are no planned funds in the budget for such items, we saw this here a few days ago. When such a commission is formed, well, I'll come to that committee at all and one session from the beginning to the end. Or when we have a commission to investigate what Mr. Živković was talking about on this unprecedented affair and corruption conducted by members of your party here in Sarajevo and on the crime that has just touched the top of the hill, and only in the coming period will we hear and see what is behind it. And I think it was best that you didn't answer your word at all today and that you were sitting, because after these affairs with Komšić, with members of your party here in Sarajevo and in the city government, I don't think you have any moral credibility that you're exorcising some kind of justice and talking about someone's corruption.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30356	Replica, honourable MP Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30357	Well, I don't know why my colleagues got so excited about this part of the agenda, I mean, it's quite a regular activity. The House of Representatives formed that commission, the commission revealed the results, and the fact that the state prime minister took it for a car of 219,000 marks, perhaps in the perception of those who are replicating me and not much, since the entity prime minister bought a plane of 4 million and 900,000 marks, so this might come a lot in that story. But unlike you, I'm in favor of the authorities doing their part of the job, so wherever there's any doubt, let them investigate it and let them publish it. Of course, he'll have a lot of work to do. For starters, I suggest that they try to check how individuals have acquired two apartments in Belgrade, one hunting ground in Belgrade, several cars, one agricultural cooperative, Radio in Celinco, one orchard, and a number of other properties, to see for a start around this RS Development Bank how the prime minister can give 3 million KM to his son, and a number of other questions that I am not taking up time for you, all of which should be fine-tuned and all of them done by the competent authorities, and we MPs will do our part of the job. We will propose what we think should be proposed, what Parliament approves, that we will do, and therefore the matter is clear. Whoever she wants to be with doesn't want to, that's another story. We are not here because we want to or do not want to be with someone but because the people chose us to work in accordance with the laws and constitutions of this country. And that's all about the story. 122
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30358	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30359	It's not a replica, but, Mr. Živković, since you've expressed your desire to come to Tuzlo, be my guest, I'll take you to the Medical School, to the Clinical Center, to the Heart Clinic, so if you want to come, don't be afraid, I'll host you in private direction myself, because I think I'll bring such a connotation on the basis of the proposal of this law on the protection of the student standard that you're here now, and then you mix up and confuse the concepts, and then you say Tuzla – Sarajevo. This is a bill you can plead for, but I'm really inviting you to come to Tuzlo. Be my guest, I will be pleased to be your host. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30360	The Republic has a chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30361	Thank you for calling. Obviously you misunderstood me, I said that Tuzla University lost the image that it had before the war where both teachers from Belgrade and Zagreb came from and knew what a student and student standard was. In order to get that back, you have to go to the cantonal level first to re-establish the standards you had before the war and I'll be happy to see and I'll be glad that college has the image it had before the war. And the present image of Tuzla University of Tuzla, where the daily affairs, where sexual affairs and everything else are, are not at the benefit of Tuzla or any student or student, and I mentioned Sarajevo and your affairs because you're talking about morality here every time and prime minister and others, you're taking money with a fist and a hat from institutions, from the Communist party that you're betraying here through the affairs in which you have your moles and in the SIPA that haven't ended up this urbanist affair, but we're going to end it, believe me. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30363	I thought when Mr. Bešlagić spoke about the offer of Tuzla University that she would be complete, and knowing that Mr. Živković is a happily married man and there is no transmission for the services offered from that university to be offered throughout _______________(?) 123 [[microphone is not enabled]] Yes, as a medium, so I assumed... that it wouldn't happen by chance given that the media, means that the prosecution and everyone else opened an investigation; you, Mrs. Malić, calm down a bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30365	Well, I'm sorry, I can't laugh...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30366	So please!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30367	How can you talk about such things in this room?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30368	I'm asking you not to throw it away. So everything and one Sarajevo medium – I whenever I come, Mrs. Malić, to Sarajevo – is five pages about it. You sort it out at some other level if it bothers you so much, but keep quiet where you need to talk, and now you've found it on me, so I don't mind. If you think that's good, you keep doing it, as far as I'm concerned, the way it bothers you now. You didn't mind asking yourself how it happened? How are these young children in Tuzla?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30369	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30370	So please, how are those young children...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30371	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30372	So please, since these young children in Tuzla are involved in such terrible things, it doesn't bother you. It doesn't matter if you haven't made it clear in either your own party or your own government, it doesn't bother you. And now it bothers you that I remind you because it's best to keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30373	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30374	Wait, please, I'm talking. No, it has nothing to do with Mr. Bešlagić. It happens in Tuzla, not only in Tuzla, it happens in all other places. And is that a secret? Now the problem is that I said it, and it's not a problem what's going on in Tuzla, and it's what the media here in Sarajevo is about, and it's an open investigation. So what now? I don't know anything about that. I'm only talking about what happened and I don't want it to happen to anyone else, but don't get upset about what happened in Tuzla. It's happened now. I just figured it out and in some other context I said it was present and that if we want to be fair, who wants to talk about 124 Tuzla, about all the good things in Tuzla, he has to talk about it too. And that's part of the story. If anyone thinks I'm wrong, let them say it didn't happen. But such an insolence from Mrs. Malić to react, if you have not done anything to stop such a thing from happening, I have not heard your voice anywhere that you have tried to do this evil, it is not just about Tuzla and to tell you that. Please, it's not just about Tuzla. It's about all of BiH. And here when you talk about it, there's probably some silent agreement at the university that these things might not be discussed, and I don't know how it happened and it's very ugly, and I went to some university and it wasn't there then. It wasn't then. Now it's there, and I don't know who's to blame. But to make that story that it's not happening, so please, you have to accept that truth as I accept the story that someone by procedure in RS can get a loan and that you call it crime.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30375	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30376	I'm sorry that I had to spend a line on the Tuzla story, even though I was going to set up some other stuff. Here, some who insist that the State Council of Ministers gets the prime minister, gets the government. Look how they tried to get that alleged future prime minister into the mud. What did Jadranka Kosor come to Sarajevo with?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30377	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30378	Why don't you ask how much money the BiH state gives to all its officials in Sarajevo and who it gives them to, and she doesn't need a plane. Here you go, gentlemen. Do the math.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30379	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30380	How much we pay for the airline because someone won't get the plane. Let's talk about it, so let's put on that bill and put on what it looks like, like we're going, I don't know, they're taking us away for free from some other country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30381	We've got business intervention. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30382	Mr President, Article 71, please pay attention, which clearly states that an MP or other participant in the debate can only talk about a matter being discussed in accordance with the established agenda. It is obvious that the debate of the last few discussions is outside the 125 reports of this commission. I don't really see any connection between the last few discussions and car procurement for the needs of the Prime Minister's Board chairman, unless, of course, the chairman went to Tuzlo with that car, but that doesn't matter. So, I'm asking you not to allow this kind of discussion, otherwise I'm going to ask for a break and we're going to cool off a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30383	You don't have to ask for a break, I'm taking five minutes off and after that we'll continue the work. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, please continue, I hope we'll be done soon. We have two men who have reserved the right to replicate and discuss, the others have given up. Dear Ambassador Mirjana Malić, replica. Are you giving up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30385	I'm sorry, I think I'm going to be able to say it in three sentences, and I haven't given up on the replica just because I want to keep it in writing. My inappropriate reaction from the headquarters was the way one of the members of this house addressed the other with such flattering offers that at least few women sitting here are offended. In doing so, I had no intention of having an infamous affair in Tuzla where both the judiciary and all the competent authorities were already involved, and I think that the distortion of an honest offer by Mr Bešlagić is our chairman and to comment. I will now quote Mr. Kalabić 'Is this offered by Mr. Bešlagić to vi, Mr. Chairman, and the complete service they are used to in Tuzla' – is not suitable for this home. And I would very much like our rules of procedure and the code of ethics to be activated and that in the end we are to each other despite all our differences at least we learn here if we haven't learned it in private life and communicate with respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30386	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jozo Križanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30387	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wasn't deliberately answering this right-hand list here so I wouldn't contribute otherwise to a groundless debate that had long since left my topic, but so I stayed on this list and I'm going to try to say something about this commission's report. But before that, I cannot bear to point out one fact that is very ugly in this House. I said I wouldn't pay any more attention to such remarks, and it's really symptomatic that the SNSD has one tried-out tactics that when we need to focus on the problem then very skillfully with the incursions, polemics, attacks, etc. It draws attention to other things entirely. 126 There are always some recommendations: fix the situation in your ata, we've taken care of it and we're fine, etc. I want to remind us all that we are representatives of the state parliament and that by swearing in this House, we have pledged to work in the interest of... all citizens of BiH. So I'd also like to try to make it right in the course of our work, though, when we're not up until now, I don't know what it's going to be, and if we do it for the next 10 months. I'd like to go back here now. If we formed this committee, then it seems to me that we need to know what the essence of her work is and what we wanted to achieve with this. It wasn't a police guy's investigative commission to say if it was all by book, but it was, I say, some political ethics commission that was supposed to figure out how to buy a car, so she wanted to figure out how to buy a car for the entire Council of Ministers, but there's no way to do that. So the point here is, if it's known that this car was basically, I don't know how much, 130,000 marks, it's a fundamental question either ethically or politically, as you will, which is important for this home. If it was necessary for that extra equipment, so it's all clean, here's all right. The tender went regular, etc., 90,000 KM, please in this situation 90,000, whether it was a tender-published request or in some subsequent offer it was approved. And if it is, the point is whether it's a political office, is it an ethical office? So he has the right to say this parliament, no matter who is at the head of the Council of Ministers or no matter who it is, to assess it. If we didn't figure it out like this, then no matter what the report is, we're aware of how this ends. And finally, Mr. Chairman, you have a little replica that I know will have nothing to do with. The defense of this assessment is that the SDP is criminalized, that it's better to keep quiet, etc., I don't think it's correct and that everything you don't want to see but that's your problem, we don't start crime problems and correct and legal behaviour in this country to protect the SDP. So if someone in the SDP is guilty of answering, of course. No law has been offered by the SDP to exempt the SDP from any responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30388	Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30389	Well, I was thinking of a replica, but I don't know if I can make it in three minutes, but this is safer for me. So, I respect what Mr. Križanović said when it comes to his political party and I totally agree. But I want to refuse with indignity every imputation to the SNSD Club that, like us, we're defending what's called, is it a jeep, what is it, a spaceship, because it's the chairman of Nikola Špirić. I'm asking professional service to take me to see where that car is parked to take a picture for memory. I don't have to sit in it because I'll never be the prime minister of this country so I can drive. Second, I haven't seen a single time as the chairman of the Council of Ministers driving in that jeep, and I'm not even a traffic guy, so I'm waiting for him at the intersection to see if he's in that jeep. And instead of focusing on seeing if this report was good, acceptable, 127 declared, we went from jeep to sexual revolution, normally. And it's good to discuss everything, but not exactly this point. What I really want to say and remind myself, at the beginning of 2008, I repeat five times the parliamentary question, I get answers and I suggest that at least 800 cars in all institutions be placed on auction, not to be driven by advisors, assistants, secretaries, and then next time I repeat how it is possible that one car damage to Fabia spends 28.7 liters of fuel and I can compare it with that tank and that threshold, so different you, even today, when it comes to audit reports, I say what kind of a public service is in spending these money, and we can save on all the items, so now I ask how much that car is paid, I really don't understand in those parts. Did someone like those parts, if they're built in, then it's a car flying, so I don't see it at all. And that's why I really want to take a picture to remember. When I took a picture by Clinton's car in Zetra, I have a wish and an end to it, at least for the license plate. So we're masters here to transfer responsibility even though we don't know anything else. The SNSD is now defending this position because it is the chairman of Nikola Špirić. Well, he's the chairman for another year. There will be some Jozo or Alija, I apologize for the names, they are the clearest thing for me, because he will no longer be a Srbin chairman and will tell Nikola or any secretary there who bought it, because Špirić did not buy it, well, because you got me a car, and I came and I didn't do anything wrong, and those who got it are guilty. So, we're always looking retroactively for the guilty, and we're not looking at what's of interest, and when I mentioned this country today at that Filip Moris, [[microphone is not enabled]] I just mentioned it so that someone wouldn't tell me tomorrow that a cigarette picker is unloading, so I smoke it from them at the Palace, because there's a commission of investigation that can be formed. And let me finish. At least 10 times I said I was against forming an ad hoc commission, because the commission forms when nothing is determined and I support my colleague Marković who said what our institutions are doing. When she can hear the MPs of the RS and I can't stop it or prevent it, God Bog, why can't one of the institutions see if it's really paid that part, as it is called, that electronic lift into the air and going through the roof, as it is, flying, what it is. Is that built in? So the guy, what's called an expert, is here I'm finishing up, so I know, Mr. Džaferović, that this is, but we have to stop this once, here's to call it nonsense. Come on, guys, get the institutions to work and it's too late for a conclusion today, but we're not gonna make it. Conclusion: that no ad hoc commission is ever formed in Parliament ever again,...especially not to be paid, so please report, gentlemen, voluntarily so investigate something. And I'm the first one for not paying anything at the expense of it, so there's going to be savings and let's just have a chance now, is that a car really is, it's not fiction, whether those parts are built in, are, let's just consider whether we can accept this report or not. Don't tell me... Selima, I'm mad at you for not calling me in Tuzla, I have nothing to do with medicine, and I'll come there.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30391	If you need it for your heart, answer it. 128
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30392	Well, lucky for me, it's still healthy if I don't get canceled in this term. So to finish, this is the best way to get to yourself, and right at the end, and I didn't even notice that he listened to me, aligned the clock with European times, well, now it would be half nine, so in the meantime and you did it, it's good, thank him who did it, I can see it now. So we're masters to do something, in the end. And when all this is over, we'll all go out and hug and say, well, it's good today, elhamdulillah, we Srbin, Bog help, we've been through well, I don't know how it goes the second, great session went, it's good. And another sentence. Even when there are these small incursions, this is a great parliament. I've never seen anyone push someone away. If you're looking at other parliaments, they're killing themselves, they're beating themselves up, and I'm hugging Remzi because he's from my entity and I'm calling him for coffee. Well, I'm communicating with everyone, so come on, guys, we're normal people. Don't let some of the others make a circus about us and we want someone to affirm us, and we underestimate ourselves. This is the best Parliament, and I've been to many countries and I've been to a session where they kill themselves in front of me, and I'm powerless to intervene because I can't even help myself, I have health problems. So, please, let's do this report as it is, we can't change it now. If I'm going to take off those glasses that are mounted or I don't know the devices, I won't, and let's make some other decision. Here's another year, I say, let's sell it at auction, let's do something, let's make some use of it. Now we're going to discuss whether this is the part, and I have no idea about any part of it. And you intend to form more ad hoc commissions, I beg you, stop it if possible and if you can't invite SIPA to stop it if you can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30393	My giving up the replica will be a small contribution to finishing this item on the agenda, hopefully, and a session, so I might answer the SDP another time. Point 19. Ad. 19. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Control and Insurance of Forced confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts and the management of seized property – Proposer of the SDP Club of Members of BiH, Law No 01-02-5-8109, of 14. Nine. 2009 (first reading) I'm sorry, that's where we passed the agenda, we went to 22. Ad. 22. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of the police structure of BiH (Act of the Independent Committee No 01,02-34-6-112409 of 28. Nine. 2009) 129
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30396	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, so very briefly. This is an important item of the agenda, unlike some of which we can freely say they've eaten a lot of time today, and it's not important, because this concerns the map of the visa liberalisation path. Here is Mr. Krunić (I saw him), president of the Independent Committee. We discussed this at the Defence Commission once and said everything we have as observations, and then the Independent Committee sat down and said what is acceptable to them, and what is unacceptable to them as an observation, and that is what we have received as members of this committee and on this committee we have reached this conclusion as we are. Given that this is one of the conditions for the visa liberalisation map, I propose that we adopt today the text of this Rules of Procedure with observations, amendments and remarks adopted by the Independent Committee, which were delivered to the members of the Defence and Security Commission, and in this way we have done this job. It is true that we are proposing to open the amendment phase, we will enter this phase, where it will take us I do not know, but here is the chairman of this committee, he explained it to us at the Commission's session. There are some things that I would do differently, some of my colleagues have objected to this, but here we have agreed to propose this shorter path, the simpler version, therefore, the text along with the accepted amendments and accepted different transformations from the Committee that are in this text. I hope you know what I'm talking about. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30397	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, please. 130
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30398	Here's my contribution, so far I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30399	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30400	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30401	Thank you. Director of the Independent Committee Mr. Krunić, do you need anything to say? If you don't have...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30402	After Mr. Džaferović, I don't think there's any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30403	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Point 23 of the agenda: Ad.23. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mirko Okolić from the 62nd session of the House, held on 14. Ten. 2009 "the BiH Council of Ministers quarterly updates the adopted measures to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina while the measures are needed and reported by the PSBiH House of Representatives" The college didn't achieve consent. You've got the report. In the second round, the House will decide on a proposal for a conclusion. Point 24. Ad.24. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the resignation of MP Rifat Dolić as member of Special Investigation Commission 131
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30412	I have a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30413	Here you are, the debate, honourable MP Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30414	About this 28th agenda. Therefore, it is about harmonising the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sport Act. I'd like to know what you were handling when you formed this three-member committee. What are the criteria on which MPs are proposed? If you want me to go all the way, here, and I can ask you a specific question. Since I'm the proposer of these changes and additions, I'm asking the question of how it's possible without a proposal or perhaps possible, it's no problem, I'm just interested in the criteria. 133
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30415	We don't mind, so the debate is open, the proposals are made. We have a proposal for Denis Bećirović, right? Denis Bećirović instead of Halid Genjac. So, the proposal is now Denis Bećirović, Vinko Zorić and Marković Milica. halide, do you need to come in? Discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30416	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30417	Okay, thanks. We're closing the debate. Moving to point 29. Ad. 29. Giving consent to ratification: a) Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the "Adriatic cross-border co-operation programme under the IPA" You have received the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission on this agreement. The Commission has given a positive opinion and proposes to the House to give consent to its ratification. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we call the MPs from the clubs and start voting or if you want to take a break. Who wants a break? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30421	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30422	You got it. We repeat the vote on Mr. Beriz's proposal. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! Please vote again. Okay. 137 Please prepare to vote, we will vote again. You can vote now! "For" 13 votes, "against" 15 votes, "abstained" six. The law didn't get the general majority. We are now turning to a vote on two conclusions of the honourable Parliament of Azra Hadžiahmetović, on the debate on items 13, 14 and 16 of the agenda. Do you need me to read those two conclusions or do you have them on you? Please prepare to vote. You can vote now!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30423	So what do we do when the law comes down?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30424	Well, that law is now being sent that fell and a stenogram... that's the reason. "For" 28 votes, "against" one vote, "abstained" three, and I realize that we have adopted these conclusions. I think it makes sense that the law when it fell, that it goes along with a stenogram about the main auditor's discussion and that it sees what happens next. Point 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković, Law No 01,02-02-4-95/09, of 13. Ten. In 2009, with the Commission's opinion on finance and budget. Here is the Commission's opinion on finance and budget negative. We vote on the Commission's opinion. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 15 votes, "against" 16 votes, "abstained" three, insufficient...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30425	He doesn't have a general majority. Well, yes, 15 votes "yes", 16 "no". 138
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30427	Yeah, he doesn't have a general majority, and so he's down, he's back to the Commission. Right? Yeah, he didn't get the general majority, so he's back to the Commission. Thank you. We're going to vote on item 15. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Security in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković, Law No 01,02-02-3-94/09, of 13. Ten. 2009 (first reading). Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 29 votes, there were no votes "against", "abstained", five, a sufficient entity majority and I realize that we adopted this law in the first reading. Moving to point 16. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković, Law No 01,02-02-5-92/09, of 13. Ten. 2009 (first reading). Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 13 votes, "against" 15 votes, "abstained" six, has no general majority and the law is not accepted. We're voting on point 17. Proposal for a Law on Student and Student Standard in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No 01,02-7-96/09, of 14. Ten. 2009 (first reading). Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 20 votes, "against", 11, "abstained", three, insufficient entity majority. There's no consent. We're going to the second round of voting, no consent in the College. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 19 votes, "against", 11, "abstained" three (two-thirds of RS). I realize this law didn't pass. Point 18. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach agreement on Amendment Laws and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH - Proposer: Ambassador Bajazit Jašarević, Law No: 01-02-4-83/09, of 16. Nine. 2009 (first reading). 139 Report is negative. We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 20 votes, "against" nine, "abstained" four. I find that there were no "against" two-thirds and this law passed in the first reading. Point 19. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Control and Security Agency for Forced Disposal of Assets acquired by criminal acts and the management of seized property – Proposer: SDP's Club, Law No: 01-02-5-81/09, of 14. Nine. 2009 (first reading). We're voting on the law in the first reading, and it's being voted in the second round. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! There were no "for" 22 votes, "against" 11 votes, "abstained" (two-thirds of the RS). This law has fallen. Point 20. Commission Report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the opinion of the Finance Commission and the Budget on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act – Proposer: SNSD MEP Club, Law No: 01-02-4-35/09, of 10. 4. In 2009. In the same section, it means voting in the second round on the Commission's opinion. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30428	... It's not about this commission. It's about the Kolegijum's consent. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30429	Never mind, I voted on the Kolegijum. There were no votes "against". The past, though we can do it again if you want to vote. So we're voting on the fact that the Kolegijum had no agreement on this, and the second round is the vote. It needs to be two-thirds of either from the Federation or from the RS. So we're voting in the second round of opinion on the College's consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30430	... Are we voting on the draft law or on the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission...? [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30431	No, we're voting on a Kolegijum where... we had no consent. Right? 140
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30432	We are voting on the Commission's opinion in the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30433	Yes, yes, we are voting on the Commission's opinion in the second round. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30434	We are voting on the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission in the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30435	If it's positive?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30436	If there are no 11 votes "against", it has passed. If there are 11 votes "against", no opinion has passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30437	We are voting on the Commission's opinion which is negative in the second round. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 18 votes, "against" 13 votes, "abstained" two (two-thirds of RS), means that this law is returned to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30438	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30439	It's all clear to everyone. Let's move on. Point 21. Special Investigation Commission report on car purchases purchased by the BiH Council of Ministers General Secretariat over a period of 15. 4. 2008 to 15. 4. In 2009. We're voting on the report. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 11 votes, "against" 21 votes, "abstained" one vote. A Special Investigation Commission report has not been adopted and there is no need for us to vote on the conclusions as well. The Commission has stopped working and the report has not been adopted. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Rifat Dolić. Is there any need for me to read that conclusion? What? You know the conclusion, you all know the conclusion? Are you staying at your conclusion? You're staying. Please prepare for the vote, we are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Rifat Dolić. You can vote now! 141 "For" four votes, "against" 16, "abstained" 11. The conclusion didn't get any general support. Moving to point 22. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of police structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina (independent Committee Act No: 01,02-34-6-1124/09 of 28. Nine. 2009). We're voting on the Rules of Procedure, aren't we? First, on the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30440	Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30441	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30442	So I just want to help. I propose that we vote on the text of the Rules of Procedure which we have received from the Independent Committee with observations... and amendments... adopted by the Independent Committee, which are listed in the Report submitted by the Independent Committee to the Commission. Therefore, the integral text of the Rules of Procedure would be the original text of the Rules of Procedure plus the amendments, amendments that have been accepted, and objections to the amendments adopted by the Independent Committee. And that exists in the report, that's what all the members of the Commission get, they know, that we know what we're voting on. There. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30443	Please prepare to vote. Is everyone clear on what's being voted on? I'll be around.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30444	...the business proposal of this committee which proposed the possibility of opening an amendment phase, first, and then this conclusion if it does not pass. If it passes, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30445	There's no problem, we'll put it on, and that means the Commission's proposal, which has unanimously adopted to allow the amendment phase, and the House has to decide on that. If he refuses, we vote on the Rules of Procedure's proposal in the manner Mr Džaferović explained. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" six votes, "against" 22 votes, "abstained" six; it is not accepted to open the amendment phase. 142 We are now voting on the proposal for a Rules of Procedure in the text which is explained in the way Mr Džaferović did. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! The House of Peoples remains about voting. "For" 30 votes, there were no votes "against", "abstained" four votes, a sufficient entity majority and I find that we adopted the Rules of Procedure. Moving to point 23. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mirko Okolić from the 62nd session of the House, held on 14. Ten. In 2009, "the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina quarterlyly updated the adopted measures to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis in BiH while the measures need to be followed and reported by the PSBiH House of Representatives". We're voting in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 19 votes, "against" 12, "abstained" two votes (not enough two-thirds of the entity). I find this conclusion has passed. Point 24. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the resignation of MP Rifat Dolić as a member of the Special Investigation Commission. There is no need to vote on this here because this commission has finished its work, and it is quite unnecessary to vote on it. We won't vote on that. Moving to point 25.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30446	And this commission's report wasn't accepted, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-04-0.u30447	This commission has completed its work by not accepting the Commission's own report. This house has given its mandate to this commission, we have voted on it and the report of this committee has been completed. There is a possibility of opening up a new commission. Suggest, this will be the home to determine. I think that's the way it is. Moving to point 25. Report from the meeting of the political directors of the Member States of the Adriatic Charter, held 20. Nine. In 2009, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security, issue: 01,02-05-438/09, of 27. Ten. In 2009. We're voting on the report, with the opinion of the Joint Commission. Please prepare to vote. 143 You Can Vote, Now! "For" 21 votes, there were no votes "against", "abstained", 13, an insufficient entity majority and we are turning into a second round of voting. There's no consent in the College. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 20 votes, there were no votes "against", "abstained" 12. I understand we've adopted the report. Point 26. The appointment of three MPs from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission for the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on BiH's Defence. Suggestions are: Remzija Kadrić, Velimir Jukić, Lazar Prodanović. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 25 votes, "against" one vote, "abstained" seven, sufficient entity majority and I find that we have appointed three MPs. Moving to point 27. The appointment of three MPs from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission for the text of the Free Zones Act in BiH. The proposal is: Husein Nanić, Slavko Matić, Željko Kuzmanović. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! “For” 24 votes, “against” one vote, “abstained” six votes, sufficient entity majority and I find that we have appointed it. Point 28. The appointment of three MPs from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission for the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH. The proposals are: Denis Bećirović, Vinko Zorić, Milica Marković. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 27 votes, "against" one vote, "abstained" six, and I find that we have appointed them. Point 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Funding between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the "Adriatic Cross-border Co-operation Programme under the IPA". Please prepare to vote. We vote now! There's no package, there's only one. Thank you. The agreement is given to the Agreement. 144 Please consider, in agreement with members of the Extended College, the possibility of the session being held on 19th rather than 18th, for known reasons. We'd like to talk to you about this, but you'll be informed in time. Thank you. The seat's finished at 8:30.
