ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5632	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow MPs, present ministers from the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, respected colleagues from the media, I warmly welcome you and open the 36th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let me inform you that there are 13 representatives, four of them from the Bosniak people, five from the Croatian people and four from the Serbian people. Mr. Ivanić and our magistrate, Mrs. Čolo, have justified their absence, since they have been prevented from other activities. For the 36th session, I propose the next amended and updated 1. Answers to parliamentary questions and new questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 35th session of the House of Peoples; 3. Report by the Joint Committee of both homes on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Competition Act; 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Procedure (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 8. Report on the audit of the financial reports carried out by BHRT on 31 May 12. 2008 (auditor's report); 9. Appointment of members of the Interresor Working Group for the preparation of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties; 10. Report on the implementation of the Action Plan to meet the remaining obligations of the Roadmap for visa liberalisation for the period from 15 July to 7 September 2009, the Council of Ministers' material; 2 11. Appointing the Ombudsman to the Human Rights Institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Candidate List Ad hoc of the Joint Commission for the appointment of the Ombudsman); 12. Granting consent to ratify the Agreement on Privileges and Immunities of the International Atomic Energy Agency; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic on amendments to the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic on the promotion and protection of investments signed in Sarajevo on 17 April 2002; 14. Giving consent to ratifying the Protocol on the prevention of water pollution caused by navigation under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement; 15. Giving consent to ratifying the Amending and Complementary Protocol of the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey; 16. Giving consent to ratifying the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development – Second solid waste management project; 17. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association (IDA) – Second solid waste management project; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the financing programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in the ERDF to the European International Territorial Cooperation Programmes "South East Europe" and "Meditiran" based on the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA), the 2008 cross-border cooperation component; 19. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation in 2007. This is the agenda you've heard, the harmonised agenda of the House of Peoples College. I wonder if anyone's answering for a word. I'm finding no one. So, as Article 60 of our Rules of Procedure does not state that we have a harmonised agenda, I move to point 1, that is, Ad. 1. Answers to MPs' questions and new questions
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5635	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable Ministers, representatives of information funds, I am not satisfied with the answer I received for one basic reason that in this answer I received an answer to everything except what I asked. So my question was clear and precise: "When will the Ministry of Security appoint a liaison officer at the Central Bureau of Interpol?" And, in that response, I received information that a working group was formed, that it was a regulation, that certain actions were taken, and when this obligation was to be carried out there was absolutely no word about it. So my question was precise and concrete, I expected a precise answer that I didn't get.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5636	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Mr Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5637	I thank you, Chairman. Let me just remind you a little bit. My company had problems exporting barley to Croatia, and this is by exporting barley produced by a contract with a Croatian company, and the Croatian firm credited that production of barley seeds. So in response, I get this: if a fellow or delegate Ibrahimpašić has information and documentation on which it is possible to see that bh. the exporters of barley deny the authorisation without justifiable reasons... They're not asking my permission, they're asking my partner to do it with, I'm not complaining about me not having my license, but that they didn't give permission to my partner who gave me the seed to do it again. I only asked this question to expose this perfection in the production of non-tariff barriers that prevent export bh. products in Croatia specifically. That was the only reason. And to me, so my authority also answers this, be careful, please: 'BiH also has a system of import-export licences for certain products, e.g. medicines, weapons, military equipment." Well, these products aren't on the free regime of imports, and barley is something else. I asked you this question to mobilize you, to tell you in conversation with these people in Croatia - so don't do this to us, my people! This is just one detail, when we talked about the Law on the Protection of Domestic Production, and the Ambassador of Croatia directs me to him, he also got from me, he says, here's the CEFTA and see what you're going to do with it. So, do you realize what my question was about? I expect from you, from my executive authority to protect us, and that executive power, here's how you see, doesn't work or has a bat conductor that you would work on, as they do there, as an organized state. I don't blame them as much as I blame our people for not getting along with this. Whether they don't know it or not, it's not mine to harden, but one of them is. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5638	Thank you very much. I hope that the Central Election Commission will not raise the issue of conflict of interest because my company is exporting barley to Croatia, but if it pulls out, it will probably determine something.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5639	I'm not the only one. I just felt that beating on my back.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5640	I believe this will be heard by the Central Election Commission, and you better not have said that, but let everyone do their job. I'm not saying anything, I'm just saying what you said. So that's enough reason for someone to do their job. Let's move on. Please, no dialogue. And I'm asking further, there are no more answers, I'm asking if there are any new questions. So, Mrs. Majkić, then Mr. Šaraba, then Mr. Rančić. Here, in this order. Tonci, we've got a noise here, put it away. Thank you. Be good, move on to this microphone. Tonci, solve that question on that microphone, turn it off.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5641	Therefore, the public of BiH is familiar with two rough incidents that took place in the Armed Forces of BiH, which have caused public disfavor especially in the RS, and also have negative connotation and suspicion in the action and way of decision-making in the Armed Forces of BiH. The first case, when reis of the Islamic Community, Mr Mustafa Cerić, demanded and received oral approval from the BiH Armed Forces to get a military helicopter to go to the opening of a renewed mosque in Fazlagic Kula near Gacka. The second incident is tied up where members of the Bihac Armed Forces in a military polygon in Manjaca pointed out a great fairy tale of the Islamic community although military regulations strictly prohibit the emphasis of religious symbols outside the room for prayer. I ask the Secretary of Defense to answer the following questions: '1. On the basis of which the legal basis, Assistant Defence Minister Ahmed Omerović made up the Decision on the use of the BiH Armed Forces helicopter, number 06-SL-2-741/09 of 14. 8. In 2009, it was proposed to approve the use of the same by the Islamic community's reis. How is this act sanctioned by the Ministry of Defense?" 5 Please provide detailed information on the same. And below: '2. How did it come and who is responsible for causing scandals by BiH Armed Forces members from Bihac by pointing out the Islamic religious community's fairy-tales on the Manjac polygon? What has the Ministry done to make such cases no longer happen, how are the sanctioned winemakers of this incident?' Reason: Reis Islamic Community, Mr Cerić, recently asked the Ministry of Defence to give him, without any legal basis, a military helicopter that would travel to the opening of the mosque by trying to turn the Armed Forces of BiH into a private service. Despite the law banning military helicopters from giving in to civilians without direct need, says Mr. Cerić found an ally in Mr. Ahmed Hadžiomerović, an assistant defence minister for politics and plans, who generously came out to him. The entire incident, as known, was last-minutely prevented by Deputy Minister, Mr. Marijanac, who refused to sign the already prepared act. In another case, it is known that members of the Bihaq Armed Forces have pointed out the fairy tale of the Islamic religious community on the Manjac polygon, although military regulations strictly prohibit the emphasis of religious symbols outside the room for prayer. RS has removed from all barracks in its area the simulations of the former RS Army, although the BiH Defence Act allows the cultivation of symbols from the past war. I beg your answer on the written path. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5642	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5643	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, on this occasion, I will ask two parliamentary questions that, as in a number of previous cases, I have sought to encourage the resolution of a number of serious problems that exist in the southern part of BiH, which is completely neglected and which is subject to the old rule that is more south, it is saddened. Many of these issues await the answer, and I am indeed looking for and urinate with respected ministers at a meeting of the Council of Ministers to encourage the resolution of a number of problems, especially those relating to the energy sector. My first question, which I am going to ask today, is to the Border Police and it says: "When will the Border Police build a facility for the accommodation of their staff in Trebinj, which will save BiH's annual budget 36,000 marks, how much is it paid to a private company where the Border Police are currently located?" 6 Let me say... in the explanation that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2004 awarded a facility for the accommodation of the Border Police which has not been renovated so far and which is waiting for certain actions to be taken in order to bring them into a functional state and thus moved the officers from the Border Police from the current leased to the space to be renovated. And the second question I refer to the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons, according to which I have a number of objections, which reads: "Is the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons planning in 2009 to allocate some of the funds for repairing houses to returnees in the area of the Municipality of Ravna and if they plan to what amount?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5644	Thank you very much, Mr. Šarab. Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5645	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5646	Just get on with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5647	So, I have one question for the Council of Ministers: "Is it true that BiH has neither the fact nor the agreed reciprocity regarding the acquisition of property rights nor with the Republic of Slovenia nor with the Republic of Croatia?" It is known that BiH citizens and firms have huge assets, mobile and immovable, which has been acquired for decades during the former SFRY and today in the former republics' space. If there is neither factual nor agreed reciprocity with regard to the acquisition of property on the property, then it is impossible to acquire and protect the ownership of our citizens and our companies in the former republics. I've been informed of this by people who are helping citizens to protect their rights and I've been informed that, unfortunately, such neither in fact nor in contracted reciprocity exists. Of course, I know that there are still unresolved issues from these two countries, that we have a similar situation with other countries, but I can't do all that as a register right now. I would like to urge this question to begin to be resolved and, of course, when it goes one by one, there will be fewer of these problems in protecting the interests of our citizens. Of course, the Federal Ministry of Justice wrote about this in co-operation with the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and therefore the issue was addressed to the Council of Ministers and, probably, the Ministry of Justice and the Foreign Ministry should be involved in resolving the problem. Thank you very much. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5648	Thank you very much. Any more questions? I just have to say that we will add to this group of questions that we have heard and the question that we received from Dr Ivanić in writing, which was referred to by the Directorate for Indirect Taxation. Secretary, that's the question. The question you've all got on the bench. Here, Mr. Tihić asks to be read. The question is, so the Directorate for Imdirect Taxation has been asked: 'Dear, I would ask you to provide me with written information on the import of fiscal systems into RS and BiH. In addition to the prices on entry invoices, the name of the company must be provided, I read as it was written,' which was made by imports as well as the total amount and value of imported fiscal cash registers (systems) for 2008 and 2009. Respectfully, Dr. Mladen Ivanić." So I ask that it be added and sent to the addresses as well as what we heard from the representatives who are in the hall, because it was given today before the beginning of the session in writing. I'm closing this agenda. We're going to point two, that's ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 35th session of the House of Peoples You've got the record. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5650	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5651	You announced before the session, so, Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5652	As regards the minutes of the 35th session of the House of Nations, I have one small remark concerning part of the minutes on page 2 before the agenda, so this last paragraph that speaks of the voting procedure concerning Mr Tihić's proposal to include the agenda point to discuss Mr Lukač's shift in SIPA. I remind you that the result of the vote, as written in the first vote, was seven votes "for", two votes "against" from the Federation and four "abstained" from the RS. After that, since there was no entity majority, there was a consensus in the College as the Commission and you failed to reach agreement and a re-vote was repeated in which, as it stands in this report, seven votes of delegates from the Federation "yes", two from the Federation were "against" and four delegates from the RS were "abstained". These are facts from our last session, and it's all in the 35-session record. 8 The final sentence, which says "the chairman of the House of Nations, after the vote, found that Sulejman Tihić's proposal was rejected". In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if we consider the results of the vote, the second vote: seven votes "for", two "against" from the Federation and four "abstained" from the RS, Mr Tihić's proposal was adopted at the House, because in the second vote there were no two-thirds and more from the RS entity "against". As a result, we had seven votes "for", two "against" and four "abstained", the proposal received the required majority. And I want it corrected in the record. Since that is the case,... so we are now discussing the minutes, I suggest, therefore, since the House adopted it, that for the next session this item of the agenda is included in the agenda, of course, with the prepared material by SIPA, and here, maybe it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5653	According to the Rules of Procedure, by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5654	Proposer, ok.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5655	I need to make a statement about this. So, I accept, it is my sin, my mea culpa, mea maximum culpa, and I suggest that here in the record it is corrected: 'The chairman of the House of Nations has, after a vote, found that he was accepted, instead of the words rejected, Sulejman Tihić's proposal and thus you have, created the right to act in accordance with the accepted proposal, or initiative. Is there... Mr. Koprivica, please. Not to explain why it came and after all this debate came and why. There were no two-thirds or more than two-thirds of the entity's votes "against", were "abstained", but we also misread the situation. Here you go, Mr. Koprivic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5656	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the present delegates of the House of Nations, Mr. Minister and the guests. I have one comment on the record of the 35th session of the House of Peoples. As is known, on the agenda we also had a 10th consent to ratify the 10th agreement that was on the agenda. They were never found here in the 35th session of the House of Peoples. I ask the question: 'Is it a mistake or is there some other reason why it is not listed in the 35-session record that we have received?' Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5657	Therefore, the secretary accepts the error of the service which did not enter the minutes because we accepted in the package a set of international legal acts and gave consent to them. So, following what Mr. Rančić asked for, along with the minutes of today's session, and this minutes last session in which it will be fully stated. Is there anyone else in need? So, I'd like to ask all of us who are working to get a little more serious when it comes to records from our sessions. Is there anyone else who needs it? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement for the 35-session record, with these amendments that we've talked about and that we've accepted. Who is “for” to accept this 35-session record, with amendments? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? I agree that we unanimously accepted the 35th session, with... the corrections given by Mr. Rančić and given by Mr. Koprivica. Moving to point 3. Point 3 is Ad. 3. Report by the Joint Committee on the achievement of agreement on the same text on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Competition Act You've reached the report. The Joint Commission agreed on what had to be done with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Three Amendments Competition Act and proposed to the House that this House should adopt this report in a harmonised manner. The House of Representatives adopted the Joint Committee's report on text harmonisation. I'm opening the debate. I am finalising the debate and putting the Joint Committee's report on the statement. Who is "for" to accept the Joint Committee's report, agreed? Does anyone have “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? I agree that we unanimously accepted the Joint Commission Report of both homes on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Competition Act. Point 4 is: 10 Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5660	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5661	It's a microphone!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5662	... We have two amendments and amendments laws, laws on the Court and on the BiH Prosecutor's Office, as far as I know. [[no microphone turned on]] I don't want to go outside the agenda, but we all know that it is two laws concerning our judiciary and the involvement of foreign judges and prosecutors in the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes and the Department of Organized Crime, Economic Crime and Corruption. The existing law, therefore, is about principles, of course, the Bosniak Club will support both the principles of both this and the next law, because we consider the judiciary an important segment in BiH and we believe it is necessary to support the process of judicial reform in BiH. The involvement of foreign judges and prosecutors is considered necessary because it contributes to making our judiciary independent and impartial and professional. So, the involvement of foreign judges and prosecutors, not only in the War Crimes Department, as provided for by this law, but also in the... second court department dealing with organised crime, economic crime, corruption, we believe that this is necessary at this time for the BiH judiciary. We will support the principles of this law, and of course we will try to put amendments in the amendment phase that will predict the participation of judges in this second department that I was just talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5663	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5664	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected present, therefore, have been having a very lively debate in this country for a long time on whether or not foreign judges and prosecutors need to stay in this country for so many years after the war, so many have said that if they haven't taught us anything by now they will never. In discussions on the subject of judges and prosecutors, the position of Serbian political parties is almost identical. Out of respect for the people in the justice system of our people who work there, we are quite certain that these people can do this job in the judiciary in a dignified and professional way. We don't want to hide behind anyone. So, we believe that the attempt to reform the judiciary has arisen in its opposite. Why did we accept the proposal of the Council of Ministers in our first reading at the House of Representatives? For the simple reason that we believed that the concession we made, which is that here in one segment, means that the War Crimes Department will be left alone by prosecutors who have already begun the processes. We've strayed from principle, and what's happened. It happened that we did not get the support or the opportunity to discuss it with our colleagues on the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, but on the contrary, and representatives of the Party for BiH and representatives of the SDA have almost identical amendments sought to keep everything as it is, so that nothing is changed and that BiH remains a country that strives towards European integration, while at the same time unable to carry out basic processes within the country. So our illusion that something in this country can be arranged, that someone will understand well the gesture of good intentions that the representatives of the Serbian people have made a concession has returned as it returned to the vote at the House of Representatives' session, without even being able to understand the new variant that says that the new amendment that was submitted in the sense that they remain until 31.12.2012, so as initial and our proposal to stay until 31.12.2010, therefore has not been adopted. So there's no story about these things. A long time ago, in the RS in particular, it is clear that there is a system in the work of the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office that Serbian politicians should be designated as an organised criminal group and on the basis of trial. It's been going on for four years. It's clear enough, and it tells us enough that we don't need to support the staying of foreign judges a single day after 31.12 this year. It is no accident that people who say that the success of every country depends on justice and justice. We have seen countless times how many judicial reforms have not been brought to life, and solid measures and influences in this unreformed judiciary have been given by foreign judges and prosecutors who have worked here on the orders of those who pay them and have submitted the report to them. We have seen countless, countless things that have challenged justice and truth in this country. So we've been thinking about how any concession can be made in the first place, and we're definitely aware that there are no concessions. So, accordingly, we will not support the draft law amending the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, nor the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Prosecutors of BiH in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5665	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Tihić. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5666	Ladies and gentlemen, the president of the club has already said our position regarding the adoption of amendments to this law. I just want to briefly comment on what Mrs. Majkić said, and also to add, in a certain way, the explanation of this attitude. First, when we talk about the attitude of the RS, we need to know that there are in the RS as constituent nations and Bošnjak and Hrvat, and this clearly stands in Article 1(1). The RS Constitution, adopted by the National Assembly of the RS, is here when I was also an MP, where it is said clearly that the RS is a community of constituent peoples: Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat and others. So this is not, which has just been stated, the attitude of all, but the position of political representatives of one party, or, if others say so, of one people. The Bošnjak have a different attitude. We have an attitude, so Bošnjak from the RS as well as from the Federation have a different attitude. We believe that in the interest of the rule of law, the rule of law, in which we all swear, judges and prosecutors from abroad still have to be involved for a while. The BiH court, as you know, is burdened by a large number of cases, especially organised crime cases. The fact is that there is still, in one way or another, a greater or smaller political impact on the work of courts and prosecutors. In one process of building and rule of law, it will certainly be helpful to further the presence of these judges. A team before a number of cases are under way, and this could jeopardise the work of the BiH Court and I fear that opposition to the amendments to this law is actually for the ultimate purpose of destroying the institutions of the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. After all, this is even publicly said to be about unconstitutional institutions. We need to fight here to have the Supreme Court of BiH as one instance that will ensure the rule of law, uniform application of rights throughout the BiH territory, and not now go with the threat and what already exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5667	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5668	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here we have two legislative projects, a bill on amendments to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prosecution of BiH which in the RS recently have caused a lot of attention and I have to present here an almost uniform opinion of all Serbian political parties that these legal projects should not be accepted. I'm going to say my personal reasons why I'm voting against these two legal projects today. First, because I believe neither the Court nor the BiH Prosecutor's Office have any basis in the BiH Constitution. So they are not constitutional, they have no constitutional basis and constitutional basis, since their existence is not defined by the BiH Constitution. We know that they were imposed by the High Representative's decision, so through further procedure, there were changes and additions. Otherwise, I share the opinion of all those who believe that the High Representative in this country does not have the right to impose laws and decisions in the way he does. The X.-aneks clearly and precisely define what is the jurisdiction of the top 13 representatives and in what direction he has certain powers; and in a way that imposes legal projects and legal solutions that create such situations as the one that has been created lately in BiH, I don't think he is in his jurisdiction, nor does he have the right to do so. And the second reason why I am against these legal solutions is in the fact that I am absolutely against BiH's judicial functions being performed by foreign judges and prosecutors. I think that in this country there are both more professional and serious and responsible and honest people who can do this job just as well, if not far better, how do people who are paid enormously and who, in my opinion, do it extremely badly and biasedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5669	Thank you very much. I give my word to Dr. Ljubić. Here you go, Doctor. The Rančić has a replica, if it's a replica, then Doctor, let's play the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5670	Thank you very much. So, I want to replicate fellow Šarab on a statement saying that these laws are not based on the Constitution. So he contests the constitutionality of the law. I do not want such a statement to go to the public and that it is considered accurate, because our competent commission, even when adopting the basic text of the law, has established whether or not it exists. She's relevant, and that thing isn't controversial. Also, I propose colleagues... I suppose it is, but to take another look at this whole mandate procedure, for the Council's views on the implementation of peace, and it is clear to all of us that we have OHR in this country and what are the powers of the Office of the High Representative. And one more thing I would like to point out, I would like to say, it stands there in the documentation relating to these laws, and I am sure all my colleagues have looked at it, that, among other things, the need for the adoption of these laws is such a position both of the BiH Court and of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, headed by Mr Milorad Barašina and the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, headed by Mr Novković, that this position is both the international community and Europe and diplomacy. Look at the demarches that BiH officials received. So, all the people in the profession who are working and running this job and from the BiH Court of Justice believe it is necessary to adopt exactly these laws as we have spoken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5671	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Replica, Mr. Šaraba. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5672	A replica of my esteemed colleague and friend, Mr. Rančić. So I was just watching the BiH Constitution, a respected colleague, and I said these two laws have no basis in the BiH Constitution. So, I watched only Article III and Article VI of the Constitution of BiH and nothing else. So I read what it says in the most significant legal text of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5673	I'd like to stop the replicas on the subject, because we are neither individual nor home authorized to assess the constitutionality of any act. That's why there's a Constitutional Court. So, I interrupt these replicas on the subject. I'd like Dr. Ljubić to take your word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5674	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international institutions in BiH, technical services of Parliament, so today we are discussing an extremely important matter for BiH's stability, so we are discussing one pillar of three, so on which each state rests, so on the judicial authority. And that's why I want us to discuss this with maximum responsibility and my approach to this issue is driven by these motives. So I would be happy if we were in such a state of institutional maturity, democracy and political maturity that we could fully rely, so to speak, on the capacity of our judicial authority. If we could guarantee that the overall political climate in BiH is such that it gives prosecutors and judges the conditions that, in accordance with their profession, ethics and laws, they can execute their functions, I fear, so we have not yet reached such maturity and therefore I believe that, knowing this, we should approach this issue in such a way. Look, here's a slow constitutionality, a dispute of principles or support. I made my point on the Constitutional Commission. So I think there's a constitutional basis and I think we can support the principles, so these laws... today, both laws, I don't report twice. However, the content of the proposed solutions is actually below the needs of BiH at this point and therefore, at the beginning of the plea, HDZ 1990 will support or we will propose amendments that will therefore improve the content of these laws. And in this way, here, in a way, he would replicate his colleague, the distinguished Mrs. Majkić, when she said that representatives of the SDA and SBiH in the House of Representatives supported the principles and constitutional basis of this law. That's not true, so HDZ 1990 also did it. Now let me say a few words, so why do we have this attitude and why do we have it? Look, we are facing two major problems in BiH today, a problem of war crimes, a problem of corruption and organised crime. In the situation when the ICTY is about to be shut down, so the International Court of War Crimes in The Hague, and when BiH will need to accept great responsibility and a large number of cases, I believe that we are neither human or financially qualified to take over and deal with all these issues in good time without the help of international judges and prosecutors. And hence, to put it this way, my pledge to remain international judges and prosecutors in the 15 war crimes department. In the situation in which BiH is located, where there is a distinct domination of the political sphere over the rest of our system, I am also afraid that there is no favourable climate for our judges and prosecutors to fully, without the help of international colleagues, enter the processes most sensitive where, I say, they are the subject of an investigation or the process of a person of the highest political or not only political but financial and economic rank. So, we often forget that in these countries in transition, new economic elites, which, with war circumstances, have become more powerful than even politics, have become more powerful. So that's another reason. The third reason is financial. Look, I've known since I was in the Council of Ministers what kind of problems both the Court and the D.A. and I know, unfortunately, that there are no financial conditions for hiring, at this point, enough domestic prosecutors and judges to be able to accept all these cases in quality. On the other hand, it is impossible to simply technically be this abruptical, as proposed, end their engagement at the end of this year, taking into account all those cases currently under investigation or in the process of the court itself, and no quality preparation has been made. And we need to be aware of that. So we have a financial element. The next element that I think, please do not get me wrong, so I am a man who trusts in the ethics and expertise of judges and prosecutors, however -- and here we have heard here today from the pay phone that it is doubtful that the Court and the Prosecutor's Office are biased when it comes to individual, so to speak, members of individual nationalities, so Ms. Majkić mentioned Srbin who are being tried for organised crime and corruption. First of all, I'd say that's not true. So, let us remember the highest officials in the Croatian people's order who were tried and convicted and released, so these very processes, therefore, were tried by others. However, as a representative of the Hrvat, I will say one thing, so I say, please do not get me wrong, therefore in my people, so from the people I communicate with, it is also heard like this, so to speak, finding or afraid: in a situation where of the five institutions dealing with investigations and processes, and I will list them: The Court of Justice of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, SIPA, OSA - there are no Hrvat. So in that situation, in fact, the people I communicate with are saying, and especially when we have behind us, so to speak, this period that we've been through, they feel more comfortable if we have this international arbitration, so to speak, both international judges and prosecutors. And finally, what I'm saying is, we're all here to finally take matters into our own hands. And some there are louder, some less loud in the departure of international institutions from BiH, the type of OHR, etc., etc. Now, knowing that what my colleague Rančić said, so one unisonic position of the international community expressed in letters from the minister of justice, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Joint College of both homes, MPs, where they advocate the extension of the mandate of international judges and prosecutors, I will only list some: Havijer Solana, the European Commission, the diplomatic demarcation of the US Embassy, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, the diplomatic demarcation of the EU Presidency, the letter of the High Representative, the letter of the Hague tribunal, the letter of the head of the OSCE Department in BiH and the final position of the Peace Implementation Council's Steering Board on this issue. Now, I'm asking you, if the position of the Peace Implementation Council Management Board is to revive the rights and legality of one of the 5+2 objectives and conditions, where is there a consistent... commitment to the departure of the OHR, if in this important issue we do not respect the views of the Governing 16 Peace Implementation Board? Someone's going to say this is our country, so we need to decide about it autonomously. But isn't it also the unique position of the President of the Court and the President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and the Chief Prosecutor of BiH to seek the stay of international judges and prosecutors in both departments, that is, the BiH Court of Justice, or the BiH Prosecutor's Office. And based on that, and I'm going to end with that, my objection, therefore, to the processor of this law who, in the reasons of these laws, has cited some findings that I don't think stand, and I would ask the processors to take more care of informing us of the MPs here and, if you will, and our common sense, so I'll quote. So, in this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, it is said: 'In finding the appropriate solutions in the draft law, the recommendations of the President of the Court of Justice of BiH are supported, which limits the number of international judges, and only at a second stage in the Department of War Crimes, or one international judge in each of the Board of Appeals.' And in the light of the Prosecution Act, he says: 'After finding the appropriate solutions in the draft law in most parts, the recommendations of the main... The prosecutors of BiH, the presidents of the BiH Court and the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH." So, here, it's just my one, so to speak, intervention to that part. I will say my position, therefore my personal and position on our party's presidency, that we will support the principles and constitutional basis of this law so that the laws can be passed, but we will give amendments or we will support amendments that go on... to remain until further notice, until it is necessary, international judges and prosecutors of both departments, so the BiH Court of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5675	Thank you very much. So, we heard, you've entered a bit of your discussion and in point next, point 5, it's about the prosecution. I believe that then, objectively, it was difficult to talk about this subject, to share in the work of judges in both departments, and not to touch the prosecution. We have a replica on your exhibit. Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5676	So, I really think Mr. Ljubić has absolutely the right to his position, as I have the right to his. I have the right to believe that the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH as unconstitutional categories are not equal to all peoples. And I'm responsible for that, even thinking about your people, but I don't think I should be talking about it if you haven't noticed. What the OHR wrote, I don't know who you've listed here, I think it would be much better if we had this time since the story started on these two laws that we've spent sitting next to each other trying to find an agreement and consensus that can help this country. Free of your amendments, Mr. Ljubić, for nothing, if we don't agree on that. The democracy of this country cannot be built on you voting over an entire nation. Your right to a decision is, but it can't make the country any progress. So, if it's in everyone's best interest to bring it in, make a deal, then we'd sit down and make a deal. So it is not in the interest to agree, and it is likely that someone predicted that Serbian representatives would not dare make a decision to reject these two laws. Here, we'll dare. So politics often takes courage, and we have seen how little courage there is in this country and how many representatives of many nations lack courage. The courage comes down to it: going to OHR and going back. So don't make it impossible for us or challenge me. I apologize for forgetting about your representative, yes, that's right, and your member voted, but it won't help us bring the laws on the Court and the Prosecution to this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5677	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. We'll drain the reports, now it's a wave of replicas. Of course, I expected it. We'll exhaust all the registered discussions of the MPs, and then I'll give the Honorable Minister of Čolak a word before we make the decision. Replica, Dr. Ljubić, then Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5678	Look, we're not discussing the report today, so neither the Court nor the D.A.'s office, so I can express my views on the work of these institutions. But I said in one sentence, I don't know if you understood it enough, I said against the highest Croatian officials, including a member of the Presidency, so the trials were conducted, convicted and released, so from the same court. On the other hand, the political attitudes of my party and my personal judgments in the War Crimes Department are well known because we felt that an unbalanced, unbalanced position was under way. On the other hand, we spoke here from this pay phone, colleague Jović, and not so long ago, that some crimes against Hrvat are not being committed to these institutions at all. It all stands, but today we're not talking about it. And if he will, after all, who guarantees me in this situation where the Hrvat in BiH, which we are most voted upon, let me also tell you on your second claim, both in the Federation, and in the state, and in the RS, in the end, where we cannot be voted because we have no vote at all, you know, unfortunately. Who says we will not be, therefore, in an even more unequal position if international judges and prosecutors go, so on this imbalance of political relations in BiH. And that's what I said about what I should have said when I said that five institutions, which deal with investigations and processes, have no Hrvat, you know. It's nothing foreign in BiH, to say the least. Well, last year's football championship in Croatia, Croatia's strongest football club, Dinamo is looking for foreign judges because he's not happy with local judges, so. It's a one-digression, so absolutely ephemeral, etc., but I want to tell you that if anyone is reputed in this country it's Hrvat, and if anyone, so to speak, has reason, in some way, to be unsatisfactory, to say, the accusations, by raising them and the processes, are Hrvat, but it has nothing to do with this. I am convinced that there is no capacity of the local judiciary, no financial, no human resources, and no political climate that it can do without the help of international judges and prosecutors to do so, and that is the basic reason why I support it, not because I would have against something, to say so, you. You have the right to your position, I have the right to my position. Thank you very much. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5679	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rajić, but not a discussion. You'll get your word after Mr. Zrn.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5680	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My replica will be very short. Each of us here as a representative in the House of Nations has the right to his opinion and his argument and it is not the right to verify anyone else, therefore, and yours, Mrs. Majkić, you think so, others, who have spoken differently, think so. And on this they shall remain until a statement, and after that with a statement we shall have a result. You're talking about courage. Courage isn't always an irrational act, it often relies on... rational resistances. Don't rephrase this, because I have no intention of replicating it any further. If I, as a member of the Croatian people, had a Republic of Serbia, which is called the Republic of Croatia, and had an effective veto in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House, after which no court in this country has the right to speak more, I would be braver 100 times than all Srbin in the RS. Unfortunately, I don't have it, and I respect your courage, it's based on something that's very tangible. Second, this is about injustice. If there's justice, maybe it's with Bog. Whoever believes, believes in this righteousness, I'm another kind of righteousness that would be 100% I haven't met, even in theory. But I believe in people's quest to do everything they can in civilised societies to achieve that justice, to get as close to it as possible. Of course, according to the Hrvat in BiH and in the trials of all kinds, there was injustice, but our fear is that by leaving the foreigners, this injustice would have been rampantly increased against us. In that sense, if there are no other replicas in the meantime, thank you, Chairman. I, here, if I can continue the debate or wait if there's any more replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5681	There have been reports before you for debate. You'll get your word after the grain.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5682	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5683	For the replica, I have another reported Mr. Jović, Rančić and Professor Neimarlija. You give up, there's no replica. I saw the forest hands. Thank you very much, let's move on. Mr. Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5684	: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and I welcome you and the esteemed co-chairs, distinguished colleagues, esteemed guests and Mr. Minister. 19 Ma, I probably felt the need and came forward earlier as chairman of the Constitutional Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5685	Just a replica, please, no discussion. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5686	And my replica would be to everyone. Today we're discussing things that don't get into the content of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5687	You've got a word for the replica, not for the discussion. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5688	: So I replicate to everyone who has so far discussed as chairman of the Constitutional Commission – let's get back to the point. We have followed the Council of Ministers' proposal on the Constitutional Legislative Committee, and have determined, since the amendments and the addition of the law, that it has a constitutional basis and that it is in conformity with the Constitution, so I call on you, so it means, because the amendments are complemented, and we will come to another reading, if we come to it, we will come to the point where we will discuss what you are talking about today. And it's my line to everyone, so I'd like to ask you to cut down on the discussion and those huge replicas that we don't need to vote on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5689	Thank you very much. We close with replicas, we close with replicas, no, no, that doesn't lead us anywhere. Mr. Ljubičić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5690	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Kolegijum, colleagues, fellow delegates, Mr. Minister, distinguished guests, probably my discussion will be simply the right of a man to speak his mind, state his position on this and the other agenda points, and it is about amendments to the Law on the Court of BiH and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. I will use the right to speak of both one law and the other in parallel, so I will not report on the next item of the agenda. When it comes to the draft law amending the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, I have several reasons that have affected my position and my decision at the end when we get there. First, with full respect for the motionors and one law and another, the proposer did not, in his explanation, convince me of the justification and need for the proposed amendments, i.e. they did not convince me that there was a need for the Court and the Prosecutor's Office to remain foreign prosecutors and foreign judges. Secondly, the opinion of the vast majority of RS citizens on the work of the prosecution and the BiH Court is negative. And it's negative for citizens to see who, mostly, I mention, the prosecution is suing and who, mostly, is being prosecuted by the Court and who it judges. The data is inexorable, 20 data clearly suggest that the prosecution and the Court are primarily in charge of suing and trialing Srbin in war crimes, including corruption and other forms of crime, I note mainly. So, there are charges and convictions and other members of the people in this country, but if you look at the statistics, I think this is my claim. This opinion on the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court also has certain NGOs, which gives an additional mark on the situation in the area when we talk about both the BiH Prosecutor's Office and when we talk about the BiH Court. We who represent these citizens in institutions, at any level of government, cannot ignore that opinion. We cannot avoid responsibility in making decisions and laws that will reflect tomorrow and in the future on their fate or their status. Thirdly, these days, information was advertised by some of the foreign prosecutors with a statement that they are not subject to or considered subject to external or local pressures, which is extremely significant, etc., not to comment further on their statements. I think it's really important that they stay like that and that just about all the people who work in these institutions are just like that. However, compared to their opinion of their work, there is another which is quite the opposite, and it is about the same that they are under the pressure and influence of the special centres of power and that many processes are being influenced and created through them, that they put their kind of pressure on other prosecutors and judges and that, with their help and the action of other factors in BiH, they create a distorted image, primarily of war events in BiH, as well as other things and phenomena that also characterize our country. Does this mean that domestic prosecutors and judges are subject to pressures and influences, that they are not independent and independent in their work, that they are not professional, that they do not work according to the law, that they are not just and just, etc. These statements by foreign prosecutors, I personally think, underestimate the work of domestic prosecutors and courts. Fourthly, we keep talking about BiH's entry into the EU and many of the things we do should be in the role of that goal. It is clear to all: in order for BiH to become a member of the European Community, BiH institutions must show and prove that they are capable of working professionally, that they can do their job in the interests of the citizens of this country. This applies to both the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Court of Justice. I personally think, gentlemen, that you are working in these institutions, please prove yourself to be doing so. So it's a chance we can move on. I ask the question whether by accepting that foreign prosecutors and judges remain in the same institutions ourselves we recognize that we are ignorant, that we are incapable of working alone, that we do not have quality and professional people who can take over this burden on themselves both quality and professionally. Can we, as such, enter the European Community? Personally, I think that the previous mandate of foreign prosecutors and judges was sufficient time to help domestic prosecutors and judges, to teach them and prepare them to take on their own commitments and jobs in the prosecution and the court. Personally, I think we have enough and capable and professional and qualified personnel from the legal profession to take over and do business in both the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH. Next, lead the initiative to enter, and we do this, BiH into the European Community and accept such solutions, not by taking on the obligations and responsibilities of domestic people and personnel and politicians to bear the burden and obligations ourselves, I personally don't think that each other is going to work. So, just, I can't understand it and I don't think it's going. 21 Finally, I thank the good intentions and help both foreign prosecutors and judges who provided the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the Court of Justice in the previous period and I personally think, once again at the end I will repeat, BiH has enough and professional, and qualified, and quality, and honest, and professional people who can prove themselves in both these and other institutions and should take over the job and do this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5691	Thank you very much. Mr. Zno. Koprivica, is that a replica or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5692	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5693	Discussion. After Mr. Rajić. Here you go, Mr. Zrna, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5694	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, a little bit of an apology, I have difficulty speaking.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5695	That's why you'll be shorter.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5696	Well, I certainly meant to be brief, thank you for the warning, and I thought I would be brief because I understood the message of my colleague Jović, or rather say a warning on what we need to discuss today, a fundamental question here – the principles. I mean both of these laws, and points 4 and 5, because it's impossible... and I think it's a good warning for him, but it's also good, it's not bad, which we've generally said so far. Which means, in principle, we have expressed our position on the amendment proposal and the addition of one law and the other. It's our right. And that right is actually the right and priority if we know what we're saying, if we know what is the fundamental principle of our thinking and seeing what will happen after a while, I was hoping after the second reading, to appear as a form of new law in the BiH Court of Justice and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. However, it seems to me that we have come out of this principle program. Now, when everyone has said their principle, I will say that we are simply at this point, because we are both pragmatic and realizing that at this moment the only possible thing is, to me it seems absolutely right to accept what has come to us from the institution that is ours, which is the Council of Ministers. We didn't have a proposal to amend and supplement both laws. But that's why this form that we're working on today 22 and calling it the first reading form means in principle to make a statement about what we've got, and then use our parliamentary opportunity and our parliamentary right to decide in the second phase what laws we want and what laws we can make, and that's actually the problem right now. We have entered into one story that has already resulted in a resolutional attitude, so probably neither of the laws we speak of will nor see what is called a posteriori, and this a posteriori certainly comes after a phase of experience, a phase of exchange of views, a phase of change action, a phase of reconciliation, a phase of simple conversation, an agreement, and the acquisition of the law, because we need both of them. I'm afraid we haven't now entered the stage of eliminating the possibility of arguments. We seem to have essentially abolished the possibility of arguments that are not just principles. In principle, it's good to say, but the arguments come after principle. Principles can be changed, principles can be corrected. The argument cannot be changed and the argument cannot be corrected. Well, that's because we keep not giving ourselves the right, and... we priors have both argument, and attitude, and principle, and opinion, so we have a priori in the final. And that's the problem. So we simply abolished ourselves or are on the verge of abolishing our ability to get the law. I'm not talking about what shape I'm in right now. The first is a law without foreigners in the Court and the D.A.'s office. The second law is with a stranger in the War Crimes Department and nowhere else. The third is the possibility of the condition we have, to confirm it and keep the foreigners, both in courts and in the prosecution. So we simply seem to be making it impossible for ourselves today to enter the stage when we choose, or by the power of argument, or by the principles, or by the attitude, but also by talking and agreeing, to determine what kind of judiciary we want and what kind of prosecution we want, without absolutely, without the right to enter its autonomy. We can comment on everything, but we can't touch each other's autonomy. That's basically what I wanted to say if I said anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5697	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. So now we have Mr Rajić, Professor Neimarlija and Mr Koprivica will prepare, and a list of the candidates reported has been completed. Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5698	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would not like to be seen as a replica, but Mr Jović and Zno have in a certain way provoked several sentences on the definition of principles, i.e. principles. I have been opposed from the beginning in this House to the reductionism of all kinds, including this, that the debate on principles comes down to whether there is a formal and legal constitutional, or legal basis. And if that comes down to it, then we have a commission, we don't need to open a debate in the House at all. Let's say we accept this commission's position or not. But unfortunately, we have evidence contained in the final decisions of the constitutional courts or of the Constitutional Court of BiH, including at entity levels, that our committees gave the opinion that there was a legal, or constitutional basis, and then the Constitutional Court proved that the laws were anti-constitutional. So I don't trust anyone or ask anyone to do that to me. 23 Therefore, the debate on the principles is the primary debate on the constitutional basis and, from that point of view, Mr Ljubić spoke and he said in the party as a colleague: we will uphold the law only from that point of view. At least I'm from that point of view. However, no one can convince me, nor can there be any argument that, in principle, there is no question of the purpose of one process at all, one law, its amendments and additions or the correlation of those ideas, these proposals with the life reality of one society, one state. So, for me, these are the questions of principle, and when we talk about the principles that, therefore, I accept this, I accept the position of the Constitutional Commission... but these other principles regarding meaning, which concerns usefulness, correlations with other realities in the country where we live, are questions for me for a challenge, for a debate. So, I'm not rude, I know that after politically speaking after the party president doesn't speak because he said what's important in the position of our party together, but I'm saying this as my own, additionally my own personal position, because I don't want to stay in debt to myself or to the public what I think about these two extremely important proposals and, Mr. Chairman, maybe you said before me that it's almost impossible to separate the thoughts of these two laws, both the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, I'm going to present some of my views on it, not to challenge any right to think but just to express my opinion that it also enters into this area of conflict of arguments and opinions, so we'll see how it will all be done together. So, in principle, legality, the foundation of this, the constitutional foundation of this law I accept, and in that sense we will give him support to enter the procedure. However, we cannot take the impression, I am in fact deeply convinced that there is access to selective, elimination of parts of international presence and international factors from BiH according to the principles of political benefit and political damage. I object to selecting because I think that a principled attitude would therefore be a correct attitude from my point of view, from my point of view, when we asked that all factors of international presence go away, and not just those who at some point for some of the political reasons, short-term or long-term, correspond to us. I'm not sure that leaving part of the international factors from BiH is in the interest of BiH, its people and its citizens. However, I am deeply convinced that general political and legal instability would develop in a more negative direction and therefore cannot support such a type of selecting. Here, as far as it is said or hidden, a request for the departure of foreign judges and foreign prosecutors is based on fear, I will not enter now into the extent that fear is founded, from the political influence of foreigners to the trial in general on decision-making, on the initiation of proceedings, on charges etc. Every fear, and that kind, is legitimate. I don't want to challenge anyone's right to fear. But I am even more afraid of the political influences of ourselves, especially in our unscathed situations and political actions. No one can convince me that a Canadian judge can be tended to any of us as one of the judges who belongs to one of us in BiH, so I'm speaking hypothetically, I'm not saying that one and the other; but if I talk about fear, I'm less afraid of a biased stranger than a biased Bosanac or Hercegovac, not to nominate them by some other of their orders. If we are already afraid of these contacts with political interests, with political influences on the Court or the trial, on judgments, then I find it much more meaningful to fear where the number of cases is much greater, and this is the area of war crime for all in BiH. So it's thousands. It is said 24 that there are 20 thousand requests to be reviewed and a certain... a large number will be brought to an end in the Court, then all together, both Srbin and Hrvat and other Bošnjak and other BiH citizens, should be more afraid of the possibility of the bias of action in the area, because the number of units to which this relates is terrifyingly large compared to several handfuls of criminals who will be hit by the law. But interestingly, we are not afraid of this mass... of the rights of individuals, but we are afraid of some group of elites who will eventually be charged. I'm not afraid of any accusations while my conscience is clear. If my conscience isn't clear, I'll ask first... to move. So, in order not to talk about principles alone, we're talking about motives, we're talking about the meaning of these proposals... In that sense, I cannot support these proposals. We're gonna get into the amendment phase and then I know what's gonna happen. They'll come, they'll come... the voting machine, then we'll take over the constitutional possibilities that the foreigners made for us, and then we don't mind that it's a foreign product, we'll use those instruments, and whoever can refuse what he doesn't like, whoever can impose what he likes and the story ends. Unfortunately, I belong to the part of BiH's political reality that cannot be protected from anyone. That's right, I'm powerless, I'm aware of that. And that's the result of that international contract, that foreign act we apply, which we sometimes call pathetic and the Constitution, and sometimes we mock him, but here's how it is. The president of our party said the party's position and I'm just repeating it. Our attitude is immutable. In the overall international presence in BiH, everyone should remain with all their mandates today until full, final and root constitutional reform is passed, and afterwards, the Bosanac brothers and Hercegovac, Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, and others, let's do our job without anyone's intervention. So far, we need protectors, we need help, we need someone to control what we're doing. Who doesn't like it, has the ability to pollemize with that attitude. Whoever has the instruments to decide will be able to take it down. This attitude of mine means nothing, but I owe it to my conscience to the people I represent in this house and to the public to say what I think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5699	Thank you very much. I need to make a small reaction. Consider it a replica. I've heard it a few times, so I won't say 10, but more than five times, I'm a member of my party and I'm the party president, etc. Please, this rhetoric is contrary to the constitutional definition of the House of Peoples where the three clubs sit by five representatives of the Croatian, Serbian or Bosniak people. This is not the House of Representatives, and we are not, say, in the previous session (I must tell you there are several witnesses from the previous assembly) never used party membership in discussions. I would like to ask if we can express party membership through the vote, and the debate through the protection of the interests of the people for which we are sitting here in one, second or third club. If Mr. Rajić wants a replica and answers, go ahead. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5700	Chairman, I'd be happy to replicate because you're absolutely wrong. We are representatives of the people here as a club, and what we will do when the club disagrees when representatives of different political parties at the club disagree on something...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5701	When you vote, you'll be a party man.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5702	So allow me, you can't just tell me what article of the Rules of Procedure you deny the right to speak on behalf of your own political option.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5703	Read how the Parliament is formed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5704	You have no right, Mr. Chairman, this is the third time, I ask you nicely. You express your political views and say the name of the party you belong to a hundred times and I don't mind it, but it... don't ever try to take it away from me again, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5705	I won't go with you, I won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5706	Or read me a provision... you have no right to. What bothers you if I say that on behalf of HDZ 1990? My voters, our voters listen to what we're saying and we're not HDZ BiH, so you understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5707	Yes, thank Bog you didn't, but I warn you that we are the Croatian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5708	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5709	Oh, thank Bog, why did you leave, I don't know, we're not getting into that. So all I ask is that you respect this as my one little reaction to us having clubs of the people constitutionally in accordance with the Constitution in the House of Peoples: five plus five plus five. And when we vote, so should we vote in one way or another, then we will vote as the party has given us guidance, if we can accept it. Here you go, Dr. Ljubić. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5710	Look, I absolutely support this reaction from fellow Rajić. I am a representative of the Croatian People's Club here, but am I Božo Ljubić. And no one can take away my right to be Božo Ljubić, you know. But the way you're interpreting it now, so our right to speak, it would turn out that I have no other right to speak on my own behalf or on behalf of the party that I represent and chair, but only as part of the club. So if I have the right to vote as Božo Ljubić and as a man who is a member of a political party within the Croatian people, then I have the right to also discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5711	Then you didn't understand what I said. Take a stenogram and you'll see that I didn't take away your right to vote one way or another. I only ask that we respect the BiH Constitution, when there is a chapter on the Parliamentary Assembly, read carefully and you will see how fat I am right. Mr. Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5712	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll use the time for replica, although at the end of what I'm about to say I believe that friends and colleagues will realize that it's not a replica, but it is a comment. Here, I'll use this right. Fear of the influence of foreigners on the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court, one fear that is present, here is with one part of the citizens, so here in this room of delegates, and another finding, means I am afraid of the more influence of domestic or powerful or politicians, etc., what Mr. Božo Rajić said. My comment, i.e. the replica. Why, in our own story, means to all of us, past this, we simply cheat or deceive the international community. If there is this fear, one or the other, it means why we cheat and deceive the international community that we are capable of running this country and that this country is working. Let's admit that we're incompetent and please let the international community take over this country's governance, take responsibility. Because this is what we really mean -- this much fear and mistrust, the other, I don't know who else -- we're showing that. I will also take the opportunity to make my comment on my friend Branko Zrn's discussion, and I listened well. To me, my friend Branko, your story is extremely beautiful, acceptable, real, practical, etc. I think it's probably part of our attitude that we, when we answered, showed from the RS. We followed the proposal, so we are aware of the proposal that came from the Council of Ministers, given, what Mrs Dušanka Majkić said, was given a hand means on the adoption of this proposal. We've been monitoring the work of the House of Representatives and commission work. An opportunity has been given by Srbin and in work, meaning both body and other body. However, we have followed the reaction of others and simply taught everything that has happened both in the House of Representatives and in the work of committees, which is why our position is today. So, in the end, it's not a replica of either one but simply just part of my commentary. Thank you very much. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5713	Thank you very much, Professor. Dr. Ljubić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5714	So, I respect my colleague Ljubičić and these attitudes, so to speak, that it would be good if we could manage this country on our own, and I would be happy if that were the case. But I do not accept, therefore, that from these points of view, here, represented by my colleague Rajić and I, we acknowledge that we are incompetent. So it is clear until the international factor remains in BiH: while BiH gets, I say, a functional and normal constitution as a framework. So you can't ask Ronaldo or Anri to play football on the tennis court, even less pool. Therefore, a framework should be set in which our ability could be expressed, and that framework here, gentlemen and ladies, is not available. That's what this is about, not us admitting incompetence. So we got the Constitution as an Annex of the Peace Agreement, we got it with the help of an international factor. The international factor has been given a role in implementing this act, and as long as such an act is in force, it has proved, therefore experiencedly, empirically, that the state cannot function without that international factor, my people.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5715	Thank you very much. Professor Neimarlija, the debate. Replications? Whoever it is, raise your hands who it is, I didn't see your hands in the air. So, Mr. Jović, Šaraba. Anyone else? Ibrahimpašić. Replications to the discussion of Dr Ljubić. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5716	: I have a need to replicate to an esteemed colleague and friend Rajić, and I waited and raised my hand, but here it is not too late, I hope, if he can. It was said in Mr Rajić's discussion of a committee called the Constitutional Commission of our home and misjudged and decided. When it comes to international agreements, I just want to say that, by respecting parliamentary democracies, the extra hand or the number of hands on the Constitutional Court has been decided when it comes to the law, and I, as chairman, had to respect it, regardless of how I pleaded against it as a person. Secondly, the exact same agendas and the Constitutional Commission and this House, when it comes to these laws, are identical to the complete point. And it is important that the Constitutional Commission and has this task to prepare for the House to the best extent possible what it considers useful and good. 28 The second thing I wanted to replicate is why now and why these laws. Well, because on January 1st, after five years, the term of office of judges and prosecutors stands out. And this is not an accident to discuss these topics, and I don't think anyone has created a situation where we're going to discuss some of the topics that have come in itself, but as an emergency.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5717	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5718	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5719	Reaction to reaction?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5720	Reaction, just one sentence. I am sorry that my colleague Jović took this personally, I was talking about this commission, not Mr Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5721	And my remarks were taken personally by individuals. I didn't speak in person. I spoke in principle. Respect the provision as it says in the Constitution. Here you go, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5722	So, my esteemed colleague, Mr. Ljubić, who today is in a football mood with his dictionary, just before, and now he's introduced us to having envious football skills, I want to say he's completely wrong when he says that BiH can't function without an international community. I claim he can and I advocate that the international community leave this country tomorrow. So, are we constantly calling on some protectorate here? I'm absolutely against it and against that kind of appeal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5723	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić, here you go and I'll conclude the replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5724	There are people who say that we Švicarac would be like us in Switzerland. I guess we'd have the brains of those Švicarac. If we're Švicarac to make some constitution like they did without 29 of these pressures. And if the Švicarac were to impose a constitution that was imposed on us in Dayton, they would be the same as we are, and they would be the same as we are now in Bosnia. You can't do something that's under pressure, war, someone's strong powers, someone's strong impotences, keep it in line permanently, and think you've solved the matter. It just doesn't work that way. When anyone realizes that, it's another pair of freaks. But the Švicarac have made a constitution, they have three states around them, is there at least one here, not close, there is France, there is Germany, there is Italy, but they've managed to make some kind of constitution that reconciled the situation. There's something different about us. The constitution is violent, approximately according to the power it was at that time when it was signed. We can yell now, I would never sign it, I don't know, but who knows how I would react if I were there in Dayton. And don't think that we're incompetent, but we have conditions that are impossible to make us a normal and smart state and that as people, we agree on it. When it's done, if it's ever done, I don't know, but if it's done, then we'll easily be some kind of country that's gonna have success, there's no reason not to be. We're talking about everything today, and we're not talking about this economy, or the basis of what we're living on. So, I repeat, we have no conditions like the one in Switzerland and if we were Švicarac under these conditions we couldn't make any state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5725	Thank you very much. Just tell me who you're replicating.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5726	I've replicated Mr. Dear, he knows why.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5727	You didn't say, so we don't know. Thank you very much. We have another reported discussion, it's Mr. Koprivica. Here you go. Professor Neimarlija, I apologize, Naimarlija and Koprivica. My mistake again. I've got a lot of replicas here, so I got the wrong order, I'm sorry. Professor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5728	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, guests, I am sorry if my contribution to this discussion is understood, received in some parts as a replica. I'm sorry, I say, but I can't, I won't be able to avoid, is it, some sort of debate with the statements we've heard here, no matter what I'm not interested in replicating. It is simply that it is precisely understanding the principles of this law, and the principles also concern the principle of the presence or absence of representatives of international judges and prosecutors in our prosecution and the judiciary, therefore, has that principle. The reasons or arguments I've heard about the departure of international judges and prosecutors, but also the reasons they've been brought to, me personally, and I'm sure and a considerable part of our public, are just believing in the opposite. They are just witnessing the need to remain international judges and prosecutors in BiH. 30 The first reason, the first argument, an imperative tone requiring their departure, which has been announced in a way that someone here in this parliament and someone in BiH has an absolute right in advance and then gives an absolute right to a part of it. It's said, we've made a concession. Who? Who made a concession on the bill before we even considered the law? Therefore, someone has absolutely the right or the right of absolute availability by law, and then to other actors of use or consumption of that law or participation in the making of that law is subject to some part or does not give in. In that sense it was and here is a milder word, it was supported, if I have noted correctly, and it is constantly insisting that it is still a matter of principled consideration of the law. So we are not considering the concrete content of the law and the possibility of action on this law, because each of us is in a position to act evenly on the law and to offer so many amendments that it can change its principle, so to speak, determination. So, in relation to the legal project itself or these legal projects, we need to accept that it makes a concession to us or to someone by agreeing to the law or if we question, or if someone questions a part of the law, that the hand provided is disrupted, testifies how it relates between us, obviously, requires some arbitration or help from people on the side. That's what it goes into, here's to say, and this imperative tone that unfortunately followed this kind of formulation in terms, so let me just say, so there's no story about it. This is where we listened, we heard there was no story of it. That's the tone that testifies to the need for us to need someone on the side to tell us that in that way, or in that kind of communication with that tone, we can't agree on anything. The second is, unfortunately, I am forced to repeat something unhappiness, which I once pointed out, again in principle to question the presence of international actors of our judicial system, in a way that is very valuable to our judicial system. Here we have heard very negative assessments, negative qualifications and the prosecution and the judiciary, very negative, with international actors, and now we need ourselves to convince ourselves that, by leaving international actors, we will suddenly have a neutral, positive, objective relationship to our judicial bases, where we will be alone. In doing so, I now repeat something I am reluctant to say, so the evaluations are that they are tried by the nations, who are objectively not suited to this home and the language of our delegates in the highest legislative body of BiH. We know that we do not judge the peoples or at least we advocate and declare everyone that our judiciary judges individuals for their individual responsibilities in all areas of the crimes committed or the actions for which the trial is to be conducted. However, such characterisations of the proceedings and proceedings themselves have been expressed. However, in a milder version, it has been said that the number of those who are tried, i.e. ethnicity or the nationality of those who are being told about it, see, this is a milder version of the same court by trial. Unfortunately, that statement much less requires, so again, I hate to say this, that then, politics is unfortunately statistics. I, as a man, stick to the intimate, honest, and religious and universal civilization principle of 'killing one man is a crime against humanity', that it is equal to killing humanity. But politics is unfortunately statistics. And if we're going to count those who are being tried, then that same statistic or logic of the same political statistics calls both ethnic and national belongings of the victims. This is the second reason, very serious, which speaks of the need to remain a representative of the international community who, however, do not resort so easily and thus simply to such characterizations of judicial processes, or collective characterisations of judicial proceedings. 31 Furthermore, evaluations have been made which are also not appropriate. As important as this discussion is to us, as important as it is to the laws that are important, they belong to these conditions, and I don't have to repeat that importance, but we shouldn't point out the courts in terms of the dependence of international judges and prosecutors by the centres of power, but without some particularisation. I mean, we shouldn't resort, if we're already resorting to the characteristics of our institutions and our people so easily. For this court of international prosecutors' addiction and judges about centres of power, without any concreteity, without even a few clear references to what the centres of power are doing, we should not resort to it. These are, therefore, the reasons that clearly point to the need to remain the state we already have, and I will, of course, also support it at a later stage, in the second reading of this law that we will come to, because it is really problematic that all the story of the willingness to negotiate and the requirements to negotiate, especially if we include in it the requirements to go to the representatives of the international community, and then the concrete content of some possible agreement, of our reviewing the common, and the priorities refuse. The rejection of the law in the first reading is mocking the principle of our domestic arrangement.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5729	Thank you very much, Professor Neimarlija. So more replicas, Mr. Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5730	Mr. Chairman, I apologize for reporting so many times today. I apologize to all those present, but here's the discussion, so we just can't get past the fact that we're still not responding to some things. My replica on Professor Neimarlija's discussion. With full respect for him as a man, as a professor, and respect for what he said, I would have had a lot of things... I recognized in his discussion that a lot of his discussion referred to and precisely my discussion, so I answered. There's a lot of things I'd have a reason to replicate, but I won't. But here, I'm just going to hang back, again, on one piece, and I'm going to replicate just one part of the discussion. I accept that in part of my address and my discussion, I may have expressed myself clumsyly on the matter of handing out something else, but here I suppose we didn't even understand what I wanted to say, so I'm going to say a few more words. When I spoke on the subject, here I accept that I have said unsettledly, I just want to clarify, when it comes to the representatives of Srbin in all these institutions, the will to find a solution has been expressed, means by one or another law, and in the proposal itself, which means by the Council of Ministers to find a solution and compromise when it comes to staying and foreign prosecutors and foreign judges. We all know that, which means that's how it is. The will of Srbin and in the work, means the commission, and in the work of the House of Representatives to offer a solution and to find a compromise on the proposal of the Council of Ministers. We've been following, I repeat again, the events in the House of Representatives as well as how the proposal and the initiatives of other peoples have been going since the end of other peoples and I've been taught that, and that's why, once again, I'm saying, why we're acting in the House of Peoples in this 32 way today. So I accept my awkwardness, but here I guess we didn't understand each other, and that's why I answered again.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5731	Thank you very much. The replica is gone. The last debater, Mr. Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5732	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given that we have spent almost two hours in debates and the fourth and fifth points of the agenda, I would first of all suggest that we not conduct a special debate on the next agenda, but only to make a statement on the draft of the laws mentioned. The Predladgač, citing the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, called for Article IV 4.a) of the Constitution of BiH, which reads: 'The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is responsible for: a) The adoption of the laws necessary for the implementation of the Presidency's decisions or for the exercise of the powers of the Assembly under this Constitution.' Article III of the BiH Constitution, which discusses the competences and relations between BiH institutions and entities, also says:... The following issues fall within the competence of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina: (a) Foreign policy, (b) Foreign trade policy, (c) Customs policy, (d) Monetary policy, (e) Funding institutions and international obligations BiH, (f) Policies and regulations for immigration, refugees and asylum, (g) Implementation of international and inter-entity criminal laws, including relations with Interpol, (h) Establishing and functioning of common and international communications, (i) Regulation of traffic between entities, (j) Air traffic control.' So, given the provisions of the two BiH Constitution members mentioned at a session of the Constitutional Commission, whose report we today have the opportunity to state on the constitutional basis for the adoption of the said laws, I voted against only because I did not see in those provisions any possibility of calling for the constitutional basis set out here in the explanation of the Council of Ministers' proposal. The Constitutional Commission's opinion, under point 1, finds that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH; under point 2 of the proposed text of the law is in line with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system. It is a finding that is not explained or called upon by which member of the BiH Constitution has agreed on this proposal for the law. 33 So these are the only reasons why I will vote at the session today, at this session of the House of Nations, against the constitutional basis of the laws mentioned, and, once again, I suggest that we do not have a special debate on the next agenda, since we have all, who have had the opportunity to talk for a long and long time today, particularly, talked about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5733	Thank you very much. Replica? Mr. Rančić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5734	Thank you very much. Koprivica, a colleague, spoke in a way to challenge the constitutional jurisdiction related to this law, quoting only Article III of Article 1a) to (j) in terms of BiH's competence. It's undeniable what he read, but it's not true because it's not complete. I'd like a colleague to take a look,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5735	IV (a)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5736	... and additional powers that say BiH will take over the responsibilities of those on which the entity's consent is achieved, as well as the things provided for in annexes V to VIII of the General Framework Agreement. You must look at the Dayton Agreement as a whole, a respected colleague, or as necessary to preserve sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence, international subjectivity, in line with the division of competence among institutions. Additional institutions could also be established and, where appropriate, for the exercise of these responsibilities, etc., etc. And I remind my fellow Members, since the lawyer, the legal body of government, is that at the level of each normal state there is also legislative, executive and judicial. In guilt, the D.A.'s office is being followed by the D.A.'s office. You guys, you understand that. You want a state where there won't be a court at the state level. Is that normal? Is that how we studied in college? We didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5737	Replication on the line,... Mrs. Majkić... So, the replica of Mr. Rančić by Mrs. Majkić. It happens.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5738	Mr. Rančić, both the Court and the D.A. are unconstitutional categories, imposed by the High Representative. The RS has never voted for them, imposed the laws of the High Representative. So you didn't say that. And they don't have a constitutional basis. So the Constitutional Commission couldn't... constitutional basis.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5739	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić, then Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5740	Mr. Rančić, I want BiH under the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement, so what the entities agreed on. So, I accept that, and I don't accept what we didn't agree on, especially not accepting what was imposed by the High Representative. I don't particularly accept that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5741	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5742	... Which entities they agreed on. [[Shortly disabled microphone]] That, therefore, is not BiH. My colleague, look, it's not BiH, you, and I don't know if you read or don't understand, not just the Constitution, but the whole Dayton Agreement and international law, etc. Now that I've talked about additional powers, it's true that one of these powers of BiH is that additional entities are agreed, but not only that, but there are things there that are explicits listed and I was talking about additionally: annexes V to VIII, so I was talking about international subjectivity, representation, etc. There's no need for me to read again. You also said you didn't accept what OHR imposed. Well, you see, if you accept the Dayton Agreement, there is also an OHR in that Dayton Agreement and it says which, colleague, its powers and we have PICs etc., etc. So, we can't choose with tweezers or, people say, this cherry I will, this one I won't, this apple I will not, this one I won't. Everything has to be accepted, completely. And international law, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5743	Thank you very much. So, I'd, if I could, I'd just give one, if I could, we'd go too far, please nice. Had it not been for the political agreement of political parties taking part in the Parliamentary Assembly when the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and the founding Court of BiH was passed, there would have been no Court of BiH. We had political consent and entity consent back then, at the time of the adoption of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. Justified Court of BiH, we have this law that founded this court and we have amendments and additions to the law on that court and we cannot now enter into the debate whether it was, 35 was not. It may not have been this political consolidation of MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly at the time of the adoption of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. That's what we can talk about. Perhaps now people who come from political options think differently from certain entities, but at that time a full agreement of the paraliamentary majority was reached and this parliament passed the Law on the BiH Court of Justice. And that's why I consider... a rhetoric of replicas on this issue. I'd like to conclude the debate. No new debates have been reported. And in the end, I would ask our distinguished Minister, Mr Bariša Čolak, to tell his court regarding all that he heard through the debate on this point, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5744	I'll apologize a little bit first, but I hope we understand each other. Mr. President, the esteemed envoys of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, ladies and gentlemen, behold, I have really listened with special attention to everything you have said here today, and I have no intention of truly giving my own judgment on certain debates, but let me just say that how and how this one proposal came about. Believe me, I knew about these attitudes and the moment this law was written. It's just that those attitudes have evolved before. So, one of them was to completely stop the mandate of international judges and prosecutors, the other being for nothing to change. You know, if you want it to be, is it, all the same, you have to pass the law because you have to extend them. We don't have to do anything unless there are international judges and prosecutors. So we shouldn't have done anything that was the attitude. So, we went with one proposal, according to my court, one compromise proposal that didn't mean revolution, which meant evolution, which meant transition, which meant still being part of international judges and prosecutors in our judiciary. And believe me, I've had countless conversations, not only with domestic actors, and with you individuals sitting here, and with clubs at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. I needed to talk, which at my invitation, and what at the invitation of others, with many representatives of the international community, all the relevant international institutions that are staying in our country and who have been helping us all this time, no matter how happy we are or less satisfied with this kind of help. Believe me, one day I had five ambassadors in my office at the same time, the most significant countries. We've been talking for a long time. And it's not at all controversial that the representatives of the international community are looking for, so we know all that. A special impression, I must tell you, was left to me by the President of the International Tribunal, Mr Robinson, with whom I spoke, as well as Mr Bramers, the international prosecutor. And when I graded it all, I thought it was really okay – both because of sensitivity and because of complexity and because of the very difficult cases we still have in war crimes, and I have strong beliefs from both Mr Bramers and Mr Robinson that we will get another part of the very difficult cases, so these cases will be transferred from The Hague to BiH – that we should find a certain modus to keep international judges and prosecutors in war crimes. 36 What I want to tell you in particular is that I had the most conversations with representatives of the professional community. I held a lot of talks with the president of the BiH Court, with the chief prosecutor and with the president of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. Believe me, even in the professional community, the attitude was not unique, and in the end it was not a unique attitude. You should know that. It may not have been detailed or stated in the explanation, but I will tell you that for the most part of this debate, until the very end, it had prevailed in the professional community to go to the second degree, and only war crimes. Why did that attitude evolve? Don't ask me. However, the moment that the chief prosecutor said both departments needed prosecutors, so war crimes and equally organised crime, there was a correction of the position of the President of the Court. She said openly, listen, if the prosecutors can, why not the judges? The position of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, read, mostly corresponds with this proposal, mine, not mine, I apologize, the Ministry of Justice, or the Council of Ministers. Only in one part is not, and this is when it comes to prosecutors in this Section II for organised crime, where they said, well, there should be a reduction with the need for the President of the Court and the Prosecutor to make one plan to reduce the presence of international judges and prosecutors. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, therefore, brought to its session this view, to retain international judges in the second degree, an appeal in war crimes. And, of course, they were willing not to stay in the departments, not once, not in the other, in any executive sense, a stranger. So they can only be prosecutors. You see, so these discussions have been going on for a long time. In the end, or not at the end, it was somewhere about half a year ago, I was speaking on two occasions to the BiH presidency, not without reason, you know that a basic act that allowed international judges and prosecutors to participate in our country is an agreement signed between the BiH presidency and the OHR. Since he foresaw there the Register Office and the transition in which this will take place and that, if it ends at the end of this year, I appreciated the need to simply ask the Presidency as signatories of the agreement. However, since there was no single position in the presidency, and after one letter sent by the former High Representative, so that we should not deal with the issue, that it is only enough law, I of course accepted it as one fact and went to changes and additions to this law. There is no saying that BiH cannot finance what is proposed and that there are no personnel. We need to be very clear and very clear here. We have foreseen this in the indicative budget, of course we will provide for funding for the next budget. And I was in the way of some voices, and I have to speak openly, which came from a professional community, which mentioned the inability to finance. It must not come at any time, nor is it the financing of the BiH Court of Justice and the BiH Prosecutor's Office that has come into question. The second thing is whether we have enough funds for capital expenditure, can we do a building in two or three years that would cost a lot of money, but I hope that we will also do so and that the current building used by the BiH Federation Special Police will be renovated for the purposes of the prosecution because I do not think it is appropriate for the same building to be the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. This proposal, I would ask you, if it is in any way possible to get your support today and try, if you can, find better solutions in the second reading, but here, guided by all this I've told you, I thought this was a compromise that benefits BiH and the development of our 37 society. I think we should simply go into transition and in this domain, not only in other domains where international representatives are involved in this country. You know that international judges still operate in BiH and the Constitutional Court. I think this is a good idea, and that's why I suggested it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5745	Thank you, Mr. Čolak. I won't conclude the debate. If there's any question of any of the MPs to Minister Čolak. Dr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5746	Just one question to Mr. Secretary. Is it possible to answer, therefore, if, on 1 January, international judges and prosecutors from both departments, or from the Department of Organized Crime and Corruption from the Prosecutor's Office and the Court, were to leave, so to speak, the damages in terms of delay or loss of pace in these proceedings? Have these preparations been made in the Court and the D.A.'s office? Do you have any information?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5747	We heard the question. Anybody else have a question? Mr. Ljubičić, so you'll hear the question, and then you'll give the answers. Here you go, Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5748	Mr. Chairman, it's not a question. I just want to thank the Minister, Mr. Čolak, for this explanation, where it is very clear, the truth, and briefly, did not take up much of our time, presented the chronology of the talks and preparations that were conducted until the draft of these laws that we have today on the agenda. I thank you for the reason that I just recognized in his discussion some of my comments when I spoke, so, simply, about the part of the procedure and the will that was shown to come to a compromise and consensus when it comes to these laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5749	Thank you very much. I'd like Minister Čolak to answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5750	Well, you see, if we were, like, here's an addition to what I said, I suggested that in war crimes besides the second degree, appeals, that even in the first degree five very complex cases continue to work, 38 for the reason that it would now... because it would really be a huge damage right now at this stage because some of these cases are in a more advanced phase, that judges and prosecutors are now changing, and we think it's a good solution. As far as this second part is concerned, specifically your questions, I will answer you, but I cannot answer you directly. You know why? Because I really don't know, and it would be unfair for me to say what it was made in which case. But I think you can draw your own conclusion from this answer if I tell you that only half a year ago that the proposals were as I explained to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5751	Thank you very much, Minister Čolak. Definitely, I am concluding the debate and we will approach the statement on the Amendment Law... The law on the BiH Court, in first reading. Who is "for" this bill under point 4? That's eight votes. Who Is “against ”? The "against" is four. "Retentions"? There isn't. We have no entity support from the RS. We'll do it again, we'll have a match after counterpart Tihić joins. We're going to point 5. ... We practically had a debate one and two times the bill. Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH I can't say that we've exhausted the debate, but if there's a need, I'm opening a debate. He doesn't want anyone. I'm closing the debate. We will join the vote on the Amendment Law proposal for amendments to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH in the first reading. Who is "for" this bill? That's eight. Who Is “against ”? The "against" is four, also from RS four. "Retentions"? There isn't. We'll wait for Mr. Tihić to comply with the colleges, so we'll wait for this law. We're moving on to point six. 39 Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5754	So we have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Criminal Law, a large number of amendments to the existing Criminal Law. We're in a very similar situation just now. So, also, the House of Representatives adopted the principles of this law and then, to make it acceptable for representatives of the Serb people, 24 amendments were made and none were accepted. So, I'm not just saying SNSD,...the political parties that are from the RS at the House of Representatives, so 24 plus one, pardon 25, no amendment has been accepted. It's the first problem that means practically binds things into a knot. Another important view that needs to be made is about principles. That the working team, which dealt with the law, said at one point reached consensus and then with OHR intervention went aside and the law became unacceptable to us. That is an additional reason why absolutely principles could not be accepted on our part. The third reason is related to a member of the 42nd existing law which speaks of the confiscation of property benefit in the course of a criminal proceedings, meaning he's talking about the property benefit suspected of being supplied in the course of such a criminal act, so in the course of the criminal proceedings, he's not going to wait until it's finished, he's really guilty, so he's taking it away, no, in the course of the proceedings, taking away his property. It's the right to property belonging to one of the basic human rights. It's all right everywhere except in this country. Now, that's the basic principle that also makes one of the key principles that requires this law to be looked at differently analytically and expressed its position. Therefore, an extended confiscation of the property benefit of obtaining a criminal offence, or member who prescribes that the court may, in the course of criminal proceedings, confiscate property benefits, there is no such thing in any law. It can only happen on the orders of the OHR, as it was, you saw the elektroprenos case take away some of your property, give it to someone else, like they're taking your wallet and giving it to someone else. But it's a decision made by the OHR Legal Department, not by the High Representative. The OHR legal department makes these decisions, officials who sit there for 10 years with good wages and only do what they do to make laws that allow them to remain. The 57th article discusses the challenge of national, religious, and racial hatred and discord, i.e. impatience, and it is framed in only one member. Imagine, please, challenging national, religious, racial hatred, discord, impatience, everything is in one piece with three attitudes. And then, 40 normally, when one of my colleagues says that in the order of the Serb people at least they would be as protected as the Bošnjak suggest for themselves, he suggests an amendment that speaks of who publicly insults, demeans or falsely accuses the Serb people or members of the Serb people, or presents facts that have not been established by domestic and international courts, or names members of the Serb people by genocide, also deserves prison. And we know how many times that happens. Or anyone in public, in any way, using an untrue term that RS is a genocide, too, requires sanctions. Or whoever calls the past war in BiH an aggression, and not as the Dayton Peace Agreement says in a tragic conflict in the region, it will not be punished, will it? So it's a serious member and requires serious analysis. I just want to remind you that these days, on various blogs, after making a decision on the verdict, Ilija Jurišić's first-degree verdict, that blogs were full of arrows and calls for lynch. I haven't been able to stay alive for months from Congress of the Bosniaks of North America who... twice a week delivered to me the most e-mail-ready contents. I didn't have anyone to protect myself from. My only protection was to erase it. And here someone has the right to speak more than I do about being protected. We should all be protected. And that right that Bošnjak have more rights than others, that's what might destroy this country. We all have to have the same right when it comes to these things relating to key human rights. Article 104 discusses the minimisation, denial of holocausts, genocide, crimes against humanity. It's such a complex matter. The BiH party has been trying on several occasions to break the law on it so it has failed, so it says until... you figure out let's do it within Article 104 and deal with it. Well, here, we saw it. And that principle cannot be accepted. Finally, article 113 says, that is, the authority of this law to entity laws and the law of the Brcko District. No, this law cannot be imposed on the entity legislators and the Brcko District to change the Criminal Law so that they agree with this. We don't accept laws like this, let alone bring him into line with this. That would be working against us. And I have said several times that no law, no proposal, no decision, which is against the interest of the RS, will be supported by us anymore. We've been trying too much to make a constructive dialogue and to make some prosperity in this country we've had too much... we've had an understanding and we've been giving too much and it's just RS giving. So we won't support the principles of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5755	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Rančić. I'm asking everyone to sign up, just in order to write it down. Mr. Šaraba. For now, Rančić, Šaraba, Koprivica. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5756	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, related to the amendment and supplementation of the BiH Criminal Law, I regret to confirm, so state the Bošnjak klub's position that we will support this law. I would like to remind us all that this is one of the obligations for BiH regarding 41 visa liberalisation maps, which I think we will talk about at the 10th point of today's agenda. And yesterday, we had a solemn statement, and here we have fulfilled this, we have done this, and only Parliament has to do it, and it seems to me that certain parties and MPs are acting -- we are going to miss it here, and on one or another home, we are going to deliberately stop it, this passing, therefore, the adoption of laws, regulations, strategies, everything that is necessary for BiH to do in order to meet all the conditions in order to get visa liberalisation for all BiH citizens. ... When it comes to the principles and disputes of certain members of this law, such as Article 42 of the law which prescribes a new act, i.e. an extended confiscation of property benefit obtained by criminal acts, or a member who speaks of the challenge of national, racial and religious hatred, discord, intolerance and others, which the colleague spoke of, I would just like to say that this law prescribes in a way that equally applies to all BiH citizens. They're absolutely not exact statements that it's something for Bosniaks more favourable, and that's for someone up there. At the beginning of the law, we have both the territorial and exterior principle of the validity of this law. I suggest that every act or every amendment of this member be looked at once again to apply to all BiH citizens in the same way. They are not true claims that it is worse or better for others, for some other groups and for some other citizens in BiH. So, once again, I say that this is one of the four conditions in which we are weakest as a country, in terms of meeting the remaining requirements of the visa liberalisation map, and I ask my colleagues and colleagues to adopt this law in our first reading, to give it a pass-by to correct in a possible amendment phase if we need this law and to adopt it, because that is how we contribute to the liberalisation of the visa regime in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5757	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5758	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm going to say briefly my remarks regarding this legal text. First of all, I want to say that the principles of this law are totally unacceptable to me. The adoption of amendments to the Criminal Law in this way would create conditions for the establishment of the Supreme Court of BiH. So, another new judicial institution that does not have a foothold in this supreme law, which is totally unacceptable to me, as it is unacceptable, and that, if changes and amendments to the Criminal Law are adopted in this way, criminal law in entities is increasingly losing meaning and becoming marginalised, which I do not think is good. And of course, I will make my main observation, which is that there must really be one full respect in the BiH Parliament, because unless 31 amendments, which are submitted by Serbian political parties, no one is adopted in Parliament, then it really comes into a very difficult situation, which is that this legislative project is ultimately not adopted. So I think that this legal project should have been far more agreed and discussed and respected, otherwise I think the chances of him coming to another stage far away. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5759	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Mr. Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5760	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to express my position and my opinion for a little while. Of course, I will repeat what I and on the Constitutional Court of the House of Nations represented when I pleaded against the constitutional basis and the principle of this law. I've been handling the following arguments. In Article III of the Constitution, Article III 1 under g), which is called upon by the proposing in the process of passing this law, where 'the jurisdiction of BiH institutions is to implement international and inter-entity criminal law, including relations with Interpol'. So, implementation of international criminal law. I will, at this time, appeal to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, adopted... and solemnly declared by the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and the European Commission in 2000, as we know, and published in the 18th Official Messenger of the EC. 12. In 2000, where article 17 speaks of property rights and explicitly says: 'Everyone has the right to possess, benefit, dispose of it and leaves his legally acquired property. No Niko shall be deprived of their property unless it is in the public interest or in... cases provided for by law, with a fair compensation paid in due time for the loss arises that way. The use of property can be regulated by law to the extent necessary for the sake of general interest." Furthermore, Article 47, which refers to the right to an effective legal remedy and to a fair trial: 'Each one has the right to have a fair, public and reasonable consideration of an independent and impartial court previously established by law. Everyone must have the opportunity to get legal advice, defense and representation from the court." Article 48, assumption of innocence and the right to defend: 'Anyone charged against will be considered innocent until his guilt is proven by law. The right to defend every person against whom the charge has been brought is guaranteed." Furthermore, Article 49 speaks of the principles of legality and proportionality of criminal offences and penalties, where point 3 provides that "the severity of the sentence must not be disproportionate to the criminal act". Furthermore, in the final provisions: ‘The provisions of this Charter shall apply to the institutions and bodies of the Union with due respect for the principles of subsidiarity and to the Member States only where they apply Union law.’ I would not further comment on the other provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU directly concerning Article 42 of the proposed law, which discusses the extended confiscation of the property benefit provided by criminal acts as directly contrary to the provisions of the said Charter. Also, I would not repeat what we already had the opportunity to hear from Mr. Šaraba and Mrs. Majkić and therefore remain at my position at the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the People's House and dispute the constitutional basis and principles of the law mentioned. Thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5761	Thank you very much. We have a reported Mr. Zrn before then.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5762	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5763	What about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5764	I'm not going to argue with you, I just want to warn you that the president and the College who runs the session should behave in a consistent manner, and if we say that we are not having a debate on the essence, on the scale of this law, but on the principles, then don't let everyone debate the essence. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5765	This is the first reading, it's about the principles, and the gentleman was speaking from the aspect of the constitutional committee he was sitting in. I would not want any lessons or sermons, I am doing my job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5766	Mr. Chairman, you're not on Sorbonne and don't act like one. This is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I invite you to return the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5767	You must tell me what provision, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5768	to principles, not to the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5769	Well, you have to tell me which rule of procedure has been broken.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5770	I told you, content, don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5771	Not in the future, not in principle, the entire Rules of Procedure is not injured.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5772	Don't, because you think you're superior, keep it to yourself. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5773	We understand each other,...we will not run any party campaigns, or speak unprincipled here. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5774	Thank you very much. So again, the constitutional basis is challenged, although a colleague reads that Article III of point 1 under g is said to be 'in BiH's jurisdiction to enforce international criminal law rules', etc. When he looks at an esteemed colleague, both of whom, the reasoning of this bill, he will see how many times this domestic legislation is called upon to be brought into line with international standards. With regard to the position of my colleague, Šaraba, on the Supreme Court, I will only mention to a colleague that Monteskie Monteskije one more time, but also the European Convention on Human Rights. So, how someone will have the right to access the court, to justice, to equality, if there is no supreme instance that, if it is, will see that citizens in BiH are equally tried regardless of what... municipalities they are in. And about 31 amendments as a cause or reason not adopted on the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, and as a reason or reason that they will not support this bill here, I'm just saying that this is not a valid or real reason. I remind my colleagues of several previous situations, the Law on the Coordination of Police Authorities, the Law on Independent and Supervisory Authorities, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the SIPA Act, the Law on the Border Police, where I invested dozens of amendments, my colleagues did not accept them, so I did not respect them on a national basis, and these laws were passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5775	Thank you very much. So I must mention that I... when we discussed at the previous 4th and 5th points warned that there was a constitutional basis, that this should not be mentioned in the discussion, because we have a basic text adopted by Parliament and these are amendments and additions to the basic text, so that there are no objections to me here. I didn't consider it necessary for colleagues lawyers and Šarabi and Koprivici to repeat it. But let us keep that in mind in the future when we discuss it and when it comes to amending and supplementing certain laws. There's another Mr. Šaraba on the line, and then there's Mr. Zrn's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5776	So here's my dear friend, Mr. Rančić. Don't, Mr. Rančić, so you're taking yourself for the right to be the supreme interpreter. So, that everything we say is 45 here you have to end up taking something out on all of it, and teaching and consulting. So you're not in that function here, Mr. Rančić. You have a completely different function.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5777	Thank you very much. Here, replica on the replica, please, Mr. Rančić. Short as long as we don't get involved.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5778	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5779	Thank you very much. Mr. Zno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5780	By estimating everything that has been said so far and the inability to, in the context of existing and discussion and in particular replicas, say anything that will change what we have now, I am giving up the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5781	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on this agenda point? Minister Čolak. I didn't see, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5782	I'll do it very briefly, Mr. President. The presidents, the esteemed envoys, have made a lot of changes in this law, as you can see, it has been done for a long time. There's one team that was founded back in 2003. It is called the Monitoring Team for the application of BiH criminal legislation and it has the task of continuously monitoring the application, on the one hand, and proposing and removing shortcomings in our criminal legislation. On the other hand, of course, there is also a obligation to bring our legislation in line with international standards, especially international conventions. And given Article II of the BiH Constitution, you know that international acts and international conventions have priority over domestic legislation. Since this law, in the most part, and the implementing law and harmonisation law, are indeed these two reasons, the reason for removing some of the ambiguities that existed in our Criminal Law so far and the direct need for some institutes, some articles to be brought into line with, above all, conventions, UN conventions in the fight against transnational and organised crime and Council of Europe conventions in the fight against organised crime. 46 Of course, I say, it's worked for a long time, for the past almost a year and a half, this team has really worked hard on this bill. And I just want to remind you that this is a team made up of lawyers, experts, so people who work in practice, excellent practitioners from both entities, from the court, so the Supreme Court, and one and the other entity, the prosecution, so both entities, the Court of Appeal, the Court of Justice of the Brcko District, the Court of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the High Court of Justice and Prosecutors, both courts, so both entities, and also the professor of criminal law. I, that is, this ministry has also participated with representatives from the Ministry in the work of making this law, and all the time our work has been followed by the relevant representatives of individual international institutions and organisations in BiH, above all OHR, the OSCE, the EUPM so that, I don't know if I've skipped anything yet, I mean, they were mostly these, and the Council of Europe, I don't know I said that they were also actively involved in making this law. The law was, according to our consultation rules, available to everyone to give their proposals, their opinions. When we collected these suggestions, this team sat down again, looked at them, and finally, we have what we have in front of us. In any case, I don't want to say how perfect this is right now. I got one question on my first reading at the House of Representatives, when they said, "Is this going to be the end now, we don't have any more, won't we have more needs to change?" We'll have the need to continue to amend our criminal law, that's just it, that's living matter. International conventions are being amended and we will have to continue to comply with our legislation. What I would really like to ask you to do today in the first reading and try to fix, which you appreciate that you can fix, in the second reading. It would be very important, because this law is very important because of visa liberalisation, as many as four conditions are assumed by this law to be fulfilled if it would have been accepted. I repeat, maybe everything isn't perfect, but here I'm just going to answer two questions that seem to me, potentiated, these two articles are extended about taking away property and this other one that's talking about preventing intentional, I can't think of, genocide, holocaust and calling. You know, I was really interested in these two articles. And I'm going to tell you what I'm talking about... and I'd like you to have a chance to talk, if there are opportunities in the second reading, so that you can just talk to this team that's been working and that has passed on similar experiences from other countries of the Council of Europe, it's not yet disputed. Are they the best? So, I am convinced by this team that such solutions exist in other countries and that they are not disputed and that they – so this first article 42 – seems to me, which tells me about the increased confiscation of property illegally obtained or obtained by criminal acts – that this is in fact fully in accordance with the UN Convention in the fight against transnational and organised crime and this second Council of Europe convention in the fight against organised crime. This second, therefore, which I also see here and also was at the House of Representatives, there have been discussions about him, I have been given firm assurances that this is in line with the UN resolution on the denial of the Holocaust and additional protocols with the Convention on Cybercrime, on the criminalisation of acts of racist and xenophobic nature, and they are binding on BiH. If it is still truly appreciated that these articles should be repaired, completed, amended, I think there is a real possibility that this could be done by the second reading, but I think it would be a real shame for BiH not to pass this law today in its first reading. Thank you very much. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5783	Let him remain Minister, there is one question for you, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5784	I hold in my hand the remarks that the Law Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia has delivered to us. These are the remarks, that's about 50 pages. And, some of these, we're not all, so with some of these remarks, it's been tried to modify itself in the House of Representatives and none of them have passed. So we understand what the fate of that law is then, it was determined before it came here. So, look, please, who has the right to, on our part, therefore, the measuring institution, the Bar Association, which has delivered this number of objections to that law, I don't believe that these people know neither the laws of Europe nor the directives, I really don't know. Do you think it's okay to have this number of objections – you say they were members of the Bar, I don't know who was, anyway,... there are all kinds of us, who knows what competences we come to work with in the working bodies – but I can't imagine anyone going through this number of objections to that law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5785	Thank you, but it's more of a question for MPs at the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5786	Of course, here I am, without intent, of course, to answer you directly, really I can't remember right now, the distinguished representative Majkić, who is the representative, but I know for sure he does, surely has a representative of the RS Bar, and I am sorry if he didn't agree with this chamber. And as has a representative of the Federation's Bar Association, he also participates, so I can tell you with certainty why, possibly, these things are not further in line, I couldn't answer from this place right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5787	Thank Minister Čolak for his further explanation and for this response to Mrs. Majkić. Here you go, Mr. Jović. I can't deny you a word. If you don't need an answer, I don't know why you're asking. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5788	I'm afraid, but I want the public to hear, the minister doesn't have to answer me, but I'm provoked. We don't have the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration, it's number one. He coordinated the team of experts with European documents of this nature. I claim that we would, because then there would be places here for totalitarian systems and... And you wouldn't just be a holocaust and 48 inhuman behavior. And what crucial to the maximum has revolutionized me in the proposals of this law: five articles that talk about organising, financing, recruiting, training and belonging to groups of terrorism, three years. Who... tax, 10,000 marks, five years. I got into one problem, I didn't have that intention, and that's why I'm not looking for an answer, but I had to say this in public.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5789	You're talking about the essence, the measure, so it's... I mean, it's a matter of amendment action. We'll first hear what fate will be. I'm closing the debate in my first reading. We'll hear about the fate of this law, the bill of amendments in the first reading, and then we'll only be able to talk about the amendment phase in the second reading. We will now first declare ourselves in the first reading of this law, and since we did not have a consensus in the College about the law under paragraphs 4 and 5, then the second round will be done for all three laws, if necessary. I'm asking who's for this bill in the first reading. So it's four, five, six, seven. Seven votes "yes". Who Is “against ”? The "against" is four. Are There “Restraints ”? There isn't. The "against" is four, so we have no entity support in the first round. Please call Mr. Tihić in the hall now, he's probably here for the interview, call him. We'll approach the plea in... I apologize. Do we have an agreement on this one? So he's going to the second round. The second round of voting will be done now. First for the unattained consent of the College of... amendments to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, the second round. I'm asking who's for this bill in the first reading. That's two, three, five and three, eight. Eight is "for". Who Is “against ”? The "against" is four. I find this law has not been supported by two-thirds of the RS vote. We are going to the law under paragraph 5, this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, in the second round we vote. Who's "for"? I find that we have eight votes "yes". Who's "against" Four. I find that neither this law under point 5. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH did not receive support from two-thirds of the RS vote, it did not pass. We are voting in the second round for the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH. Who is “for ” this law in the first reading? 49 I find eight votes "yes". Is it eight or seven? Eight votes are "for". Who is “against ” this? The "against" is four. I find that this law has not passed because it has not received the support of two-thirds of the RS vote. We move to point 7, that is: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Procedure (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers In his first reading, the law was accepted by the House of Representatives. You've received a report from the relevant committee. I'm opening a debate. I guess this is Benigan law. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motions of this law under point 7 in the first reading. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously adopted the Amendment Act and the amendments to the Administrative Procedure Act. Point 8 is: Ad. 8. Report on the financial statements carried out by BHRT on 31.12.2008 (audit report)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5792	Dear colleagues, you have received a report from the Commission and have received the conclusion of the Commission and have received another conclusion from this Commission. So we're at the 36th session, which took place on 30. 9, in the capacity of the committee responsible, we should consider the report on the audit of the financial reports carried out by RTVBiH on 31. 12, carried out by an independent auditory house called Revsar. I welcome the representatives of Revsar from Sarajevo. Before we started reviewing this report, the General Auditor from the BiH Institutions' Office informed the Commission that in the final phase of the 2008 revision of the RSWBiH Financial Report, which was made in accordance with the request of the Commission for Finance and Budget of this House... with the 15th session of 8.4. which, in that decision, you have the conclusion. Since the Commission for Finance and Budget is obliged to consider all the reports of the Office for Audit in accordance with the Law on the Audit of the Institutions of BiH, and that the report of the commercial audits only discusses when there is no report from the Office for Audit, we... were unable to make most of the votes a decision and we, with two votes "for" and two votes "against" referred the conclusions to the House that I am the House determines. So, we have two conclusions: that the House of People will consider the 2008 BHRT Business Audit Report after its delivery from the BiH Institution Audit Office in October 2009; therefore, this second report that we have does not mean anything, so we can declare it, but we are obliged to discuss the audit report of the Office for Audit. Or two: The House of People asks the Commission for Finance and Budget to submit a report on the audit of the financial report carried out by RTVBiH on 31.12.2008, which was carried out by the Independent Auditor's House Revsar, which was an illegal conclusion, because we have to work on what the Office ordered, so the Audit Act. So, I suggest we unify those two points, wait another day until the end of October, I think the auditor said it would be over, and then open a debate on the review report of the BiH Public TV System.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5793	Thank you very much. So, we heard what Mrs. Majkić said. In the same way this morning, the College discussed this issue, and it is an identical proposal and the College to wait for the State Auditor's report, so, and then, right after that, we put this point back on the table for the first next session of the House of Peoples. Is there anyone else who needs to say something about these positions of the College and what the Committee said? I would then like to make a statement to postpone the plea until the State Audit report arrives, and after that, we will immediately put this on the agenda of the House of Peoples within the prescribed time limit. Who is “for ” such a proposal? Unanimity. I find that we have unanimously postponed the debate until this state audit report arrives. Moving to point 9, that's "Ad." Nine. Appointment of members of the Interresor Working Group for the preparation of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties 51 We had a request, memos, so the Central Election Commission's acts. We had a request from the Justice Department and today instead of the point 9, which we left out, you saw, from the original agenda, we included this in point 9. The House of Representatives appointed three persons to the Interresor Group – Mr Džaferović, Mr Živković and Mr Lozančić for the preparation of these two laws – and at the same time the House of Representatives adopted one conclusion. I suggest here we listen to him and we take the same conclusion when we determine our people in this Interresor group. This conclusion, which they have made, reads as follows: 'The Central Election Commission', which gives it the very text of the Election Law, enables him to 'as the holder of the business of access to the activities of the Interresor Working Group to amend and supplement the BiH Election Law and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties'. They will be doing both the first draft and the first draft version to be discussed by the Interresor Group and actively involved. Here, I'm opening a debate and after that, if you think we should discuss this, yes, we've contacted all three clubs and we have three people, if I may suggest three people who would join the Interresor Group. Does anyone need a word? There isn't. So, then I suggest what we've agreed on. The Bošnjak Club has appointed Mr. Rančić's person, the Hrvat klub my person, Ilija Filipović, and under 3. The Srbin Club said it was Mrs. Majkić. If you accept this proposal from members of our home for this job in the Interresor Group, I ask that we make a statement. Please, who supports the Interresor Group in this band? Thank you very much. So, we have exhausted point 9 and we have also accepted the conclusion and I ask that, in that sense, the Interresor Group, the House of Representatives and the Central Election Commission be informed. Point 10 is Ad. Ten. Report on the implementation of the Action Plan to meet the remaining obligations from the Roadmap for the liberalisation of the visa regime for the period from 15 July to 7 September 2009
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5796	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5797	Can I just before Mr...?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5798	They're gonna get us into the story about this thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5799	Before it starts just... Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5800	- Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5801	If Mr. Jović doesn't mind, here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5802	I don't think it's right for us to open this agenda. First, there is no one from the Council of Ministers who will explain to us what happened in the meantime. At the last two sessions, significant conclusions have been made, significant conditions have been met, which someone here needs to present to us. To consider today an old material that... is no longer true is disrespect of this home. I'm really asking you today to spare us the disrespect of yourself. I ask you to leave this point for the next session, asking the chairman of the Council of Ministers to be here and to tell us exactly where we are from the aspect of the visa-free regime.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5803	It's just your opinion, we've heard it now, I'm asking Mr. Jović to introduce us. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] What? That's an opinion given in the light of the conclusion, what's the issue here?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5805	I mean, this is...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5806	We're gonna open a debate about this. So, here you go, Mr. Jović. 53 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5807	Thank you very much. What the esteemed president claimed, I was just going to point out. The truth is that in the time of July 15th of this year, with the first week of September of this year, those who were necessarily in charge of doing what we are expected to do, mainly based on our adopted resolution at both homes, do everything necessary to move BiH towards the EU. And when it came, and we witnessed it, there were great delays on that road, it tried to do in the last two months what, in July, seemed almost impossible. Because if something was waiting for two years, it was done here in almost two months, from that aspect it would be very important to have a gentleman from the Council of Ministers here. At what speed they addressed certain issues that were raised before them and which they adopted, they proposed. But we have it written here. And, on our Joint Committee of both European Integration Houses, we gave our opinion on this material and showed what we agree with, which is not, since it says in this opinion, I will not elaborate that part. Also, in the opening part we have – the chairman of the Interresor Group, I do not know if Mr Rizvo is here, it would be good if at least he were here today – it was indicated what Parliament was expected to do. However, here we are witnessing that Parliament will not be able to do its part of the work according to an expected time-limit. First of all, it concerns amendments and additions to the Penal Code on the establishment of a body... corruption, etc., and a model for the exchange of information from police registers across the country. I think of these two last things that have happened and found the bypasses, but this remains a key issue of changing and supplementing the Penal Code. I am not, Mr. President, in position to present this material, but only to say about it, and here I am going to end it. However, it seems to me that I have made it clear to me that, on behalf of the BiH Parliament, I have put on your tables a proposal for a conclusion, that it would be good if we understood the situation of BiH and its implementation of the obligations ahead of us, to determine ourselves on behalf of the BiH Parliament today, to propose one of our delegations, I propose from three members, the chairman of the House of Representatives, then the Chair of the House of People and the Chair of the Joint Committee for European Integration, which would go to Brussels, which is necessary to oblige the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ensure such a visit with the BiH Ambassador in Brussels to the EU, and to present the situation of BiH, and to assist in a more free visa system for BiH citizens and to make the visit by the end of this month. That's my conclusion, the suggestion of my conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5808	Thank you very much. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5809	: I see that we are already a little nervous about it, and this proposal that was, that there are no people who should listen to this and I mean, I call on the envoys to support this conclusion of mine and to take that step towards Brussels. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5810	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5811	We'll give everyone the opportunity to say what they want. We heard, Mr. Rajić, just a little bit without a circle. I'll give everyone a chance, everyone gets a word of whoever they want. We have two suggestions now. One brought out Mrs. Majkić, we have a conclusion in the form said by Mr. Jović and accepted by even the House of Representatives. I'm asking who wants a word. Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5812	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5813	Turn on the microphone, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5814	... MPs, where we are today, and what news is this report regarding the activities of the Council of Ministers that have taken place. So we also heard about the adopted strategy at the Council of Ministers, we heard about the Action Plan, about its implementation. We know that the Council of Ministers has passed and the first reading in the House of Representatives of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law has passed, and now we have seen who it is and how it was shot down and why it knocked him down. Unfortunately, we have here, too, is this report by our competent commission that has finely sublimed it: that of the 52 points of the conditions, which we need to meet, 10 is fulfilled, 38 is in progress, that four requirements that have a serious delay in meeting, and among those four items are amendments and additions to the BiH Criminal Law. So, I think it's illusory and transparent to say, let's put this off, let's hear the Council of Ministers' position. We heard the Prime Minister on television last night who refused to do so and as if he were to boast, here, it passed on to the Council of Ministers, and now as he asks Parliament to make the passing and passing adoption of laws, strategies and all that has been passed on to the Council of Ministers, when we see that it is obvious that certain regulations and laws or strategies are released or adopted on the Council of Ministers, where everyone there votes, and then comes to Parliament and we don't even have the strength to let it pass in the first reading in order to give a theoretical chance to improve some things through amendments. Those who voted against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law only minutes ago, and knew it was one of the conditions for visa liberalisation, they should be responsible and bear responsibility for failing to meet the requirements of the Roadmap for visa liberalisation for BiH citizens. That's it, thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5815	Mrs. Majkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5816	There were five laws that fell in this house because there was no willingness to compromise, so a ministerial conference was organised, so they all took a step or two, and all those laws, which for a year and a half revolved in the Parliamentary Assembly, were passed. When there is a willingness to talk about it, then a ministerial conference will be held again, everything agreed, and adopted in one reading. So, when there's a willingness to talk. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5817	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Ljubičić came forward to discuss it. Here you go, Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5818	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to make my point on what Mr. Rančić said when it comes to taking responsibility. I agree with that, and we should all take responsibility, but everybody. So we take over, too, __________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Yes, yes, and we take responsibility for ourselves when it comes to this bill of criminal law why we didn't support it. But also, I would also like to point out that they should take responsibility for themselves and those who, when proposing the law, propose such provisions in the law that, here, we have seen what they are controversial and consciously doing, not in this law, but in many previous laws they are doing just that. And why do these laws fall into this procedure? It is also, in my opinion, a question of responsibility for those who propose such laws and, therefore, such provisions in those laws which, clearly, as they all do not have a chance to pass. And there's responsibility. I agree, too. Let us, here we take responsibility for this, but I ask for the responsibility of those who propose such laws, who are more aware and try through such proposals to do certain things, not to open the debate further, and consciously do such things, not only in this law but in many previous laws. And we take responsibility for all that. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5820	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5821	... We can't all have the same responsibility together when we didn't do the same, or vote. [[microphone is not enabled]] We who voted for the adoption of the Criminal Law, which is a condition for liberalisation, one of the conditions, and which is in a major stalemate, one of these four conditions, are to meet these and other conditions and get our citizens liberalization. You who voted against, you have knocked down the law and you are against meeting the conditions for liberalisation. That logic is absolutely pure, precise and clear. I can't bear the responsibility because you broke the law, because you shot him down, I didn't. When I break the law, then you can also honor me and say, "You have brought down the law and you bear the responsibility." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5822	Replica, Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5823	Well, I'm really sorry that we're getting into this story right now and getting into this controversy. I have no intention of getting into that combination with any of my colleagues, but here, obviously, yes, I'm going to repeat something I just said, we need to get into something like that. I'm repeating something, and whether we really get along again or not, or we don't want to get along, I was also clear in my comment. It's true, we accept responsibility means why we didn't support here and this proposal to amend the law. But I repeat again, apparently that a colleague or someone else who works to prepare these laws does not see any other mistake, persists, in my personal opinion, is persistently making and insisting on certain provisions of the law, not only this one but also others that are unacceptable, unacceptable to a certain group of people in this country. Here, and with this law as commented by Mrs Dušanka, she made it clear why we cannot support this law. And then, because we are in this law, the bill of this law, such provisions that are unacceptable to the Serbian people, you tell us we are guilty, and I see guilt, I repeat again, those who have inserted such provisions into this law and want through these provisions, through this law, to create one position, and not to say further, a situation that is totally unacceptable, means to us. And I don't see our guilt being the only one in this process, but there are certain blames among others.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5824	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubičić. I personally think it is inappropriate for us today to give criticism as to why someone voted in the vote. I'm sorry, I'm interrupting such an argument. Mr. Zno answered his word. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5825	Thank you. I thought it was a discussion that's being held... on item 6 of the agenda of today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5826	We've been through it, we're at the 10th point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5827	And that, regardless of what it's drawn from this point 10, it's from the Action Plan to fill in the context of visa liberalisation, I think that we should really go back to this agenda point and we should finish this. Indeed, I suggest we finish. We don't have to discuss it. Basically, there's nothing to discuss here. This process is complete 7. 9, and today, which is today, 1.10,...means we can take this into account, although I must mention that it is a shame that there is no one, at least one member of the Council of Ministers, of the Secretary, of anyone, to follow, if nothing else, what will be said here. I suggest that we take note of these conclusions, the conclusions of this committee signed by Mr Halid Genjac and fellow Jović's initiative, which was recently announced here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5828	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate and putting it to a statement, first, the Activity Plan Implementation Report. I suggest we adopt him or reject him. He was also adopted by the House of Representatives. To understand, it seems to me, that this would not be appropriate to what the House of Representatives did. Who is "for" this report? Does anyone have “against ”? ‘Contained’ one. Of the total number, 10 votes "yes", one "abstained" and we accepted the report under point 10. Now I ask you to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5829	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5830	Of course you can, go ahead. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5831	I didn't get enough information on what this conclusion is. Here he says that, on the proposal of Mr Jović and Mr Genjac, a delegation should be formed to go to Brussels to explain something there. First, there is a Directorate for European Integration that has regular communication,... has communication. I really don't know what this is for. Whose call and who are they going to chase to explain something to? This is a material for me that I can't make a decision on, I'm not sure I understand what you really wanted. What initiative is it that Mr. Jović and Mr. Genjac suggest going to explain something? I really, here's a fellow who may have more information, I don't understand this request.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5832	Thank you very much. Mr. Jović, this is a vague conclusion, will you explain? Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5833	I see where this is going. The only thing I want is for you to read this nicely and make sure that what I suggested is made clear. Whoever wants to, who won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5834	If someone's holding that it's necessary to read this again, we've all read and received. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5835	Just let me tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5836	But you don't have to read, we all have text in front of us. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5837	So, in order for two people to talk, someone has to give the initiative. I suggest we give the initiative and present to the people where we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5838	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word about the conclusion that's ahead of us? I'm closing the debate. I am putting on a statement of the proposal for a conclusion in the text as we have received. Who is "for" the proposal for a conclusion? That's three and four is seven. Who is “against ” this conclusion, shall we vote? Who is the “against ” conclusion? No one. "Contained"? "Contained" four. The conclusion was supported. 59 _________(?) There's no entity majority. No entity majority, yes, that's right. We'll do the second round again. There's no Mr. Tihić. I will ask the secretary to ensure Mr. Tihić's presence,...or someone from the secretariat, and we will continue to work. As Mr. Tihić arrives, we will see if we have a consensus in the College; if we do not, we will hold a second-round vote on this conclusion. We're going to point 11, that's "Ad." 11. Appointing the Ombudsman to the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution (Ad hoc candidate list of the ombudsman's Joint Commission for the designation of the Ombudsman)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5841	There will be no debate, Mr. Chairman, but my remarks on the non-discipline behaviour of the Ad hoc committee which, in its report, on page 2, determines that, after taking into account the documentation of each candidate reported, this commission has found that two candidates do not meet the conditions of a public tender. Namely, this commission found that candidate Mariofil Ljubić had not submitted certified photocopies of the university's degree and the belief of a passed judicial exam with the application. Unconfirmed photocopies of previously certified photocopies of diplomas and beliefs were delivered, so one quite... formulation. I believe this is about unprincipled behaviour which was aimed at eliminating the candidate who was the strongest candidate of the Croatian people, because Mariofil Ljubić has run twice as a former Ombudsman. He was once elected, so that choice was annulled. And imagine now that documentation based on which he was chosen is no longer valid and they found, they came up with some formula to do so. Also, although this is not mentioned in the Report, I have information that the leading candidate, proposed today, did not have any documentation at all, and this commission did not mind launching the investigation procedure where administrative services lost 60 documents and without documentation scored and valued and established this ranking list that they are proposing to us today. So, I know how the vote will end, but I want to say that I am expressing my protest against the systematic ignoring of the strongest candidate in the Croatian people's order who has applied for this whole ombudsman election process at BiH level. But here we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5842	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement from the proposed candidate, so on the candidate list. It is a person named Nives Jukić who received support in the House of Representatives. Who's "for"? Four, five, six, eight. Does anyone have “against ”? One “against. ” One “abstained, ” two“ abstentions. ” So she got the support of Mrs Nives Jukić, because we have the necessary entity majority in both entities. Moving to point 12. Point 12 is Ad. 12. Grants of consent I therefore propose that, from point 12 to the conclusion of point 19, we give the package consent to ratification of international legal acts under point 12, in conclusion with point 19. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify international legal acts from point 12, at the conclusion of point 19. This has exhausted today's agenda. We will after this session – but right after this session, we will wait for a moment to join and Mr. Tihić – to hold a session of the Colleges in my office.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5844	How do we vote for this point?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5845	Which one? 61
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5846	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-01-0.u5847	We disagreed on this conclusion. Once we agree, this conclusion will come to the agenda. I can't rip off Tihić now, he has international representatives in his office. The seat's over. Thank you very much. The seat is closed at 14.40.
