ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4782	I'm asking the MPs to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, the international community and the media, I warmly welcome you and open the 31st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Just to find out that the House is present today in full composition and for the 31st session, I suggest the next 1. Answers to parliamentary questions and questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 30th session of the House of Nations; 3. Report by the Joint Committee on Harmonisation of the text Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions; 4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Payments to a Single Account and the distribution of revenue by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Payments to a Single Account and the distribution of revenue by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on an indirect taxation system in BiH under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 7. Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Military Commissioner for BiH (second reading) – Proposers Branko Zrno and Slobodan Šaraba; 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Border Police Act (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 10. Proposal for a Law on fiscal registers (second reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 2 11. Proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production within the CEFTA Agreement (second reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 12. Proposal for a tax code for BiH (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 13. Proposal for a law on public procurement (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 14. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Competition Act (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 15. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 16. Proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. Dayton Peace Agreement (the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH); 17. A strategy to prevent and combat domestic violence in BiH for the period 2009 to 2011; 18. A plan of action to meet the commitments made by the European Commission in connection with the Roadmap for visa liberalisation for citizens of BiH; 19. Report on the implementation of the law in the jurisdiction of the Central Election Commission; 20. A report on the protection of personal data in BiH and the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH; 21. Report on the spending of the BiH Presidency for 2008, in accordance with the BiH Constitution Article V 3 g); 22. Proposal for a resolution on improving the protection of the family in BiH – Proposer of Professor Hilmo Neimarlija; 23. Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 24. Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the BiH Credit Agreement, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Raiffeisen Zentralbank Österreich Aktiengesewllschaft – Development of the water supply system in the municipality of Livno, 26. Giving consent to ratification of the international health rules of 2005; 27. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on cooperation in the fight against crime, in particular terrorism, illegal drug trafficking and organised crime, 28. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Economic Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 29. Giving consent to the ratification of Annex II. Agreements between BiH and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of the project in favour of the judiciary or courts and prosecutors in BiH; 30. Granting consent to ratify the Additional Protocol with the Criminal Convention against Corruption (ETS 191), Strassbourg, 15 May 2003; 31. Granting consent to ratify the European Convention on Foreign Notifications with the Additional Protocol; 32. Granting consent to ratify the amendment to the Convention establishing the Customs Cooperation Council; 3 33. Giving consent to ratifying the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of BiH and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia on the implementation of joint operations along the common state border; 34. Giving consent to ratifying the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of BiH and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia on the holding of regular meetings of representatives at the state, regional and local level; 35. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the government of Montenegro on the implementation of border checks at common border crossing points. This is an amended, updated and harmonised agenda of the House of People's Colleges. I'm asking if anyone needs a word. Here you go, Professor Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4784	It seems to me that the order of the agenda points is not good, because the proposed excise law should first go, and then points 4 and 5, which virtually adapt other taxation systems to the possible introduction of additional excise duties. It is illogical to first introduce changes in the system, and yet we are not – what if we do not vote, although it is a small, probably low probability – a proposal for a excise law, but it would be the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4785	Thank you very much, Professor Ivanic. You suggest, Professor Ivanic, that point 12.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4786	Point 12 becomes point 4, and the others move down.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4787	I think this is a perfectly rational suggestion, so let it go to the soul of our service that lied to this, but whoever is doing this can be mistaken. ... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? Wait a minute. Is there anyone else in need? Can we accept this proposal from Professor Ivanić to consider point 12... before point 4 and we will keep the rest of the order. When we get to 12, let's move on, so we don't disturb... the overall agenda that we put together as I read it. How about that? I would like to make a statement on the proposal for this amendment made by Professor Ivanic. 4 Who Is “For ”? I'm realizing that we've put point 12 under point 4 and we're moving on as far as the agenda is concerned. Thank you very much. We hereby accepted the agenda, in accordance with the... business provisions of Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one. Ad. 1. Answers from MPs and questions that will eventually be asked new
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4790	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I got an answer to my delegate question about sending members of the Armed Forces to Georgia and I have to say that I am partially satisfied with this answer. Namely, the Department of Defense taxed the legal reasons and regulations on which the reference was made, but she remains one dilemma, my own. I believe, however, that even before the final decision, given the situation that has arisen and given the situation that occurred in this country from decision-making to reference, the ministry had to carry out one analysis and to reconsider its decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4791	Thank you very much. No MP has ever received any answers. I'm asking if there are any new questions. Mr. Šaraba, then Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4792	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I would like to refer my question to the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons. More than 1,000 people currently live in the municipality of Trebinj and eastern Herzegovina, which are in late '91. and in early '92. The year has escaped from Dubrovnik and Zupa Dubrovnik and live in the territory of Herzegovina and is in an extremely difficult situation. They are not in a position to enter the property of their apartments in Croatia because of the legal regulations that are in force in the country and, of course, the Council of Ministers is several months ago, in particular 26. 2., tried to help these individuals by making a public call about regulating jobs in their former firms. All points to the conclusion that these persons, refugees from the Srbin from Croatia, are in an extremely 5 difficult situation and have addressed the RS's competent ministry and have received the answer that the solution to their problems will also try to achieve through the BiH Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons, and of course through its regional association, whose headquarters is in Trebinj. So, my delegate question is, "What does the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons intend to do is to flee from Croatia who cannot exercise their tenant rights in Croatia and want to live in BiH?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4793	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4794	Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, my question has been addressed to the Office of the High Representative in BiH or the Office of the EU Special Representative in BiH. Since the Office of the High Representative in BiH or the Office of the Special Representative is very non-transparent when it comes to the financing and payment of the relevant taxes in BiH, I ask the High Representative to answer my question: "When will the Office of the High Representative, or the Special Representative, start paying the salary tax and contributions for its full-time employees and thus stop with the classical tax evasion and salary contributions in the RS and the Federation of BiH?" Reason: Given that the Office of the High Representative in BiH is asking domestic authorities for maximum transparency in work, it is inadmissible to the organisation's intransparent behaviour, which is causing enormous damage to entity budgets. It is known that between 1996 and 2001. For years, therefore, a period of five years, OHR did not pay taxes and contributions to local staff salaries at all. Since 2001, OHR has applied a new strategy, which only reports about 20% of the personal income of employees, thus further tax evasion and contributions in the most unscrupulous way. If the OHR in BiH is a promoter of transparency in work, democracy and human rights and other values, how could this be happening. I beg your answer on the written path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4795	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Anyone else want to ask a question? Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4796	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 6 Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, my question has been initiated by the College of the House of Peoples to the chairman of the Council of Ministers since 13 May, and here, as far as I know, there is no answer to this question. It is, in effect, the resolution of ministers and deputy ministers, related to the application of Article 15. The law on the BiH Council of Ministers. So, since he's a member of 15. The BiH Council of Ministers Act stipulates that the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers is confirmed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH: 'Is the chairman of the Council of Ministers intending to deliver to the House of Peoples his Decision on the replacement of the Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport and Deputy Minister of Defence for Politics and Planning for Confirmation, as did the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives?' That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4797	Thank you very much. I'm asking distinguished colleagues and colleagues if anyone else needs a question. I'm closing this agenda. Moving to point 2. Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 30th session of the House of Peoples I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it on the record for the 30th session. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? I agree that we unanimously accepted the Book of the 30th Sessions of the House of Peoples. We're going to point three, that's ad. 3. Report by the Joint Committee on Harmonisation of the text Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4800	: Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, the Joint Committee of both homes to agree on the text of this law met and discussed the reasons why a derogation occurred in the text of the law due to the adoption of Amendment number I to the House of Peoples which was not adopted by the House of Representatives. After the debate, it exceeded the belief that consent can be achieved most effectively so that amandman I. to the House of Peoples is excluded from the text of the law and proposed to the homes, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, to adopt the text of the law without amandman I.. hvala you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4801	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate, we heard Mr. Rajić, does anyone need a word? I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the report. Who's "for" the report? I agree that we unanimously accepted the report. We move to item 12, so that's now what we've changed in the agenda, that's ad. 12. Proposal for a tax code for BiH (second reading) Of course, in the second reading, we discuss amendments and vote on the bill, accept it or reject it. You have received a report from the Finance and Budget Committee and this commission has adopted one amendment. The House of Representatives also, to inform you, accepted this law with an identical one amendment. I'm asking Mrs. Majkić if there's a need. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Professor Ivanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4803	Well, like two days ago, I have to say again that I think this whole law is an example of a law that's just being made to put out a fire without thinking about the long-term economic consequences of this kind of approach. The reasons for the law show that a growth in income of 170 million KM in budgets, on public income, public revenues in BiH, and 120 million based on an oil excise to build highways. This means that the average citizen of BiH,... the average population, will cost about 75 marks a year. I think it's a pretty big increase. I wouldn't have anything against him, because I think the purposes for which it was done are quite correct. I think it was 8 far smarter, if you want to honestly, and much more to increase excise duties than they have been increased, but to introduce a lower VAT rate and thus make some kind of social peace in BiH, transfer the burden of funding from the poorer to the richer layers of the population. This is how this excise, for example, works, was done on oil when oil was 1.4 retail, it is now 1.7 – 1.8 KM plus this additional increase; it cannot without affecting price growth, it cannot without affecting the growth of... inflation. It will not be too big, but it will, will be present and... with this approach it is evident that the promoter only went with one logic: fill out the budget and not think at all about what is happening throughout the economy; that in terms of the crisis, giving should be reduced, and not increased, so says world practice and world experience. For that reason, I will not support this law, I will be restrained when it is declared.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4804	Thank you very much, Professor Ivanic. Is there anyone else who regrets it? Mr Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4805	Here, I just want to say why I want to vote for this law. I have a grudge against certain provisions, if you remember, I've always criticised a provision that, in my opinion, made it impossible for our coffee roasters to be competitive, because it was taxed twice. Now it's gone, so it's fixed in this law. The part about imports of absolute alcohol has also been corrected, at least now it is guaranteed to return those funds when used as a re-promaterial. The thing with cigarettes remained as it was, with an attempt to help that excise on the most popular cigarettes, it will help domestic producers, but it was not going to discriminate on import cigarettes as they do in Croatia. However, I will vote, again, for him because I know that the European Commission has pressed Croatia to settle it, so he will give up treating imports differently from domestic cigarettes in the amount of excise goods. So, this is being introduced here, said Mr Ivanic, on the one hand... to unblock the European Bank's funds for reconstruction and development for the construction of Corridor Vc. So when we adopt this law, when it comes out, those funds will become operational. Surely it will employ a construction operation with us that is almost out of work now, will also employ steel-based manufacturers, so to speak, I don't know, gravel and will open up a lot of new jobs. That's why I want to vote for this law. I gave up any objections to him. If there's a need, if there's no way to do something, then I can try it in a regular procedure. And now I'm going to vote for him to get those money activated and to open up new jobs, to sort of amortize, how much, the impact of the recession that's already well, well, hit this space. There you go. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4806	Thank you very much, Mr. Ibrahimpašić. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4807	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like my colleague and I, I would like to point out my dissatisfaction with the proposal of this law and its, here, almost certain adoption today. I believe that it will cause market disturbances, that it will lead to an increase in inflation. And my special dissatisfaction is that this law did not predict the excise on alcohol, thus opening up certain doubts which, in my opinion, almost certainly exist and has room for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4808	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Anybody else want a word? It's a final offer. I'm closing the debate. I am putting on the statement of the draft excise tax law in BiH, in the second reading. Who is "for" this bill? That's 12, 13. ‘Non’? One “against ” and one“ abstention. ” I find that the Excise Taxation Act in BiH has been adopted. We are now going to point 4, that is, Ad. 4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Payments to a Single Account and the distribution of revenue by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure The House of Representatives has passed this law, amendments do not invest, we are now voting on the procedure. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of procedure for an emergency procedure. Who's "for"? Is there someone “against ”? "Contained"? The Mladen doesn't speak at all. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4810	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4811	It's for procedure. So 14 "for" procedures and one "against". I'm opening a debate on the bill. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill by a hasty procedure. Who's "for"? ‘Non’? "Contained"? With one "against" and one "restricted" vote, the House adopted the bill on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Payments to a single account and the distribution of income. Point 5 is Ad. 5. Request by the Council of Ministers for examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Payments to a Single Account and the distribution of revenue by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The House of Representatives accepted and passed this law. We need to make a statement now only about the procedure. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. I'm closing the debate. Who is “for ” to go by hasty procedure in relation to this bill? Is there someone “against ”? With one vote "against" we accepted the procedure. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill. Who's "for"? One vote “against ” and one“ abstention, ” 13 “for. ” We've accepted the bill. Point six is Ad. Six. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on an indirect taxation system in BiH under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4815	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I mean, we had a debate in our first reading about this law, and I don't know what else is to be added or taken away, and that's why I urge you to plead and vote and accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4816	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. Mr. Šarab, you don't need to add anything else to that? So, the Committee has accepted two amendments. They became an integral part of this law. With the same two amendments, the House of Representatives accepted the proposal of this law. I'm opening the debate. 12 Mr. Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4817	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present colleagues and gentlemen from the Council of Ministers and other guests. I also believe that this law should be given... a positive view of this home, a team before... by adopting these amendments, or by proposing these amendments, which was adopted by the Commission, exactly those remarks that were made at the last session in principle and accepted. First of all, it is about co-operation with the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, and I think that this is a very important moment in the addition of the original text of the law, and therefore I am also expressing a positive opinion and I propose that this law be given to the House in this text, as the Commission has stated in its report, and we accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4818	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I am putting on the statement of the draft law on the parliamentary military commissioner of BiH. Who's "for"? "Agreeds? "Contained? Two "against", one "abstained"; three "against" and one "abstained". So I'm saying that we've accepted this bill. Point 8 is: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers You have received a report from the Joint Defence and Security Committee. The House of Representatives accepted the proposal for this law in the proposed text. Mr. Rančić has renewed his amendments, and eight amendments. I would like to give my word to Mr. Rančić, who has submitted, he has renewed amendments that have failed on the relevant committee. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4820	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 13 So, when this law came into practice, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, I also looked at the basic text of this 2004 Law, this Proposal Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, as well as the Law on the Law on the Coordination of Police Authorities... The purpose, the essence of this law and its procedures in Parliament, is to exactly bring the SIPA Act into line with the laws it passed last year, as far as BiH's police structure is concerned. My main intention is to correct this text of the law that is before us and to bring it into line with these laws that I have mentioned, in a way that enables the State Agency for Investigation and Protection to apply this law effectively. That was my motive, and that is why I have submitted amendments to the regular procedure to the competent commission that I have offered to my colleague, Džaferović, who signed it in front of the House of Representatives, and unfortunately we have failed to defend these amendments on the relevant Commission for Defence and Security. And here I am, being asked to renew these amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and try to defend them at the House. Indeed, all colleagues and colleagues are asking for the attention of these amendments because I am responsible for saying that if we do not adopt certain amendments, the SIPA Agency will find it difficult to implement this law. Thus, amandman I. and its essence relating to the basic text of the law of Article 8(2) point d) in that point d) are said to be 'The Agency, in agreement with the Minister, shall be responsible for the supply of arms, ammunition, equipment and other supplies for the needs of SIPA'. That's the basic text of this law. In the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements in Article 6 relating to point d), that is the position (4) of Article 6, it says only 'that SIPA will carry out activities to supply arms and ammunition in collaboration with the Police Support Agency with the consent of the Minister.' The existing provision in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to this Act, I think, narrows down the Agency's competences with regard to the procurement of other necessary equipment and resources for the work of SIPA. And that is why my amandman I., and this position (1), states that they are responsible for carrying out activities to obtain standardised equipment, because the Law on the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities prescribes that standardized equipment will occur at the Council of Ministers, and then weapons, ammunition, material and technical means not prescribed by the Council of Ministers as standardized equipment, with the consent of the Minister, and all in co-operation with the Police Support Agency, in accordance with the Law on the Coordination of Police Authorities and on Support agencies of BiH Police Structure. So it's my essence of this part of the amendment not to prevent them from doing their normal work. It is normal that, in addition to standardized equipment, the Agency is authorised, competent to supply all the necessary equipment and resources for its work. The position (2) of this Amendment I also refers to Article 8 (2) point (e) of the basic SiPA Act which says that 'with agreement with the Minister prepares and implements the training programme of SIPA employees'. Then the basic text, now in the text of the Amendments and Supplements Act) is prescribed as 'implementation of activities relating to training programmes and professional training of SIPA employees according to the law', etc. The Co-ordination Directorate Act stipulates that these programmes will be implemented by the Directorate and the Education Agency by the Directorate and by all training of employees in police agencies, SIPA and the Border Police. So, no more and there's no need for us to have special organisational units, people, etc., etc., which 14 will carry out the education and training of our people each for ourselves in our police agency, but will do so in accordance with this law and, at the end of this law, you know, when you voted for it, you said that all the laws concerning the Law on Coordination will comply with the Law on Coordination of the Coordination. So he's a hierarchical elder and these laws have to comply with this... I therefore propose that people from the SIPA, management, etc., will carry out activities in accordance with the Law on the Law on the Coordination of Police Authorities and on agencies to support the police structure, the Law on Police Officers, because there are also certain provisions concerning this work, and in relation to education, professional training, training of SIPA employees. If Parliament passed this law and said that education, education, education will be through the Directorate and the Agency, then it cannot remain at the same time in the SIPA and the Border Police. Something doesn't make sense, it can't be on one track or another. That is amandman I. in amandman II.. as regards Article 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the SIPA Act, and it treats Article 12 of the basic text of the SIPA Act, the essence of this amendment is to change the name of this... Criminal and investigative departments, and erasure of KIO abbreviations in the position (1) of this member. The way they formulated the law is, in my opinion, bad because they formulated that part by writing in Article 12. 'The name of the member is changed and said: The affairs and tasks of the Crime and Investigation Department, it could pass, there should be a point,... and the words 'in the further text KIO are deleted'. This part of the text 'in the following KIO text' does not exist in the name of Article 12. It exists in Article 12 (1), not in the name. And if this were to go away, then you'd still be in a position (1) to remain this shortcut, and then one thing with another would have no purpose, there wouldn't be that correspondence. That is why I propose Amendment II. 'In Article 10, behind the word of the department and the characters of the quote instead of the decimal point, the rest of the text is deleted.' So there's no erasing this part of the text in brackets because it doesn't even exist in the title. And then in the position (2) of my amandman II., I will do it a little bit by which I have the right under Rule 112 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, so in Article 10, a new position (2) is added which reads: ‘In Article 12(1) of the Word of the Department, (because they have not deleted it, the Criminal and Investigation Department remains, and in the name they have changed it, they want it to be called the Criminal and Investigation Department, unless it is a language variant, so 'in Article 12(1), the word section is changed in word section, and behind it is deleted the interpuncation sign of the brackets and words in the text of the KIO'. Then this way, the law will implement the proposaler's intention to change the name and delete the abbreviations. Amendment III. He refers to Article 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements, i.e. Article 13 of the basic text of this Act. The bottom line is they want to change the name of the Financial Intelligence Department and cancel this keybinding. So, not to explain, same as amandman II.. So I'll cut it short, amandman III.. It reads, "In Article 11, behind the word of the department and the sign of the quote, instead of the comma, the point is placed, and the rest of the text is deleted." And a new position (2). So: ‘Article 11 adds a new position (2), which reads as follows: ‘In Article 13(1), the word section is changed by word and the word section is deleted behind the wording of the brackets and words in the following text of FOOO’. Amendment IV. is of a similar nature. He refers to the basic text of article 17. So, amandman iv.e. It reads, "In Article 13, behind the word of the witnesses and the signs of the quote, the point is placed instead of the comma, and the rest of the text is deleted." Therefore, Article 13 defines the name, instead of the odjeliti, the duty of the witness protection department, will be the title of the Affairs and Tasks Department for 15 Witness Protection. And then in Article 13, a new position (2) is added, which reads as follows: 'In Article 17, the interbreeding sign and the words in the further text of the UNSC shall be deleted'. Amendment V. also talks about changing the name and erasing certain abbreviations in this article by making the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law in Article 14(1) relating to a member of the 18th basic text; position (1) Amendment: ‘The name of the member shall be changed and the Jobs and Tasks of the Special Protection Unit shall be amended. The following points (1) and (3) shall be added: In Article 18 (1), the word support shall be changed in a word to protection, and the wording of the brackets and words behind it shall be deleted in the next text of the JSP. In Article 18(2) and (3) of the abbreviations JSP is replaced by the words "Special Protection Unit". Amendment VI. refers to Article 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law, which concerns the affairs and tasks of the Department of Internal Control.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4821	And his intensity is erasing the abbreviations, so it's the same as in the previous three, four members.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4822	Yeah, yeah, just to add one more word, my amendment stays the way it is. It means, 'Article 15 behind the word control and quote characters instead of the decimal point, and the rest of the text is deleted. In Article 15, a new position (2) is added, which reads: In Article 19(1), I left out this, 'interpuncation sign of brackets and words in the text below, the KLA is deleted'. Let me make an amandman vii.. and VIII. I substitute for chronology because, as you've received, amandman vi refers to Article 19 and amandman vii.. refers to Article 21. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions. There was a mistake, you know, the thing that technically happened when my colleague worked for me and... when I was renewing the amendments. Member of the European Parliament and of the Council will be an amandman vii.. He refers to Article 19. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the SIPA Act, and in the basic text, just a little, Article 19 applies... _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] I'm begging you, here's the real deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4824	Please don't interrupt him, we're almost there, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4825	I really want this, if we don't adopt these things, this is going to be very rogue and it's going to be a problem in application. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4826	Go on, Mr. Rančić...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4827	Thank you very much. Therefore, in Article 19 of the basic text, not the basic text of this law, but the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, in the position (2), is amended and reads, therefore: 'In the position (3) the words of the Office for Cooperation with Interpol are replaced by the words of the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities of BiH and other Competent Authorities of BiH'. It is the international co-operation of SIPA and how it will be achieved, as you said by voting this law that Interpol would move to the Police Body Coordination Directorate, that it would be there. Of course, we passed this law on assistance related to this criminal co-operation, and it will also apply in the good part to the co-operation of these police bodies, of course and others, and I think this is in line with the adopted law. And amandman vii.. It will be amandman vi, it concerns Article 21. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law, i.e. Article 25 of the basic text of this Act. So, Article 21. The draft law amending and supplementing this law should be deleted because the basic text of this law in Article 25 provides for what will be done in SIPA after the adoption of the basic text of this law, but in 2004. And he says, "The SIPA Internal Organisation's Rules of Procedure will be passed within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law." 'Station (2) Until the adoption of the relevant SIPA rules, the rules adopted under the laws of Article 24 of this Act have been adopted, and this is the previous law on the Information and Protection Agency for BiH, in which these regulations are not contrary to this law. Therefore, Article 25 of the basic law provides for the adoption of a Regulation on the internal organisation and application of these rules until other implementing laws are adopted in accordance with the 2004 law. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act in 2009 cannot be re-scheduled to the Agency. In its position (1) says: 'The Rules of Procedure shall be adopted within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law'. Well, that rulebook was passed a long time ago, he's in effect. And this law can't tell the SIPA back now, here, you're going to bring in some of your own rules. It is also related to attitude (2). It does not matter the Law on the State Agency, but at the time when the basic text of the law entered into force, the Law on the Information and Protection Agency of BiH and this member should not be changed in that part. Here, I beg your pardon if I have harassed you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4828	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4829	And please support this, this will be operational. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4830	We've given you enough time, twice as much as the Rules of Procedure predicts. However, it is a very subtle matter, so it is the explanation of the recasters, and therefore we must have patience, regardless of what we have in common, because we have amendments and your reasoning in front of us, but we have also heard some additional points of view. After hearing the amendment's mandate, I'm opening a debate. Mr. Zrna, please, the chairman of the relevant Joint Defence and Security Committee where the amendments have not been passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4831	Thank you very much, Chairman. That's why I called. Unfortunately, these amendments have not passed on our committee, although I personally hold perhaps it is not bad that sometimes even so extensively, regardless of the text and the amendments and the reasoning, sometimes even this way explains what is being renewed, especially when it comes to amendments. I really, if there were, if there was one single illogical thing or something that, come on, that they needed some kind of different glasses and looked at, then I'd react differently. I think that all the amendments of my colleagues to Hazim are absolutely logical and that they are essentially changes in the illogicalness that arise in this proposal to amend and supplement this law. And if we're talking about the amendment as a correction to the original text, then it's really about repairs here. I think I know what I'm talking about, even though there are technical repairs here that, if we don't accept them, will cause, at least, confusion or duplication of certain jobs. There, and at that level, so there is, these amendments are indeed in the best interest of correcting the basic text of this proposal to amend and supplement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4832	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. The debate is open. Who wants a word? Will you turn yourself off, Mr. Zno?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4833	I will.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4834	Anybody else want a word? Mr. Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4835	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome you and the co-chairs, distinguished colleagues and all present today's session. 18 I would ask, two minutes will I need a comment, should I do it now or when we say the amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4836	You already have your word, please. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4837	Thank you very much. I have the right to be uninformed and ask a question. We've been talking here all the time about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection. The whole text says this law, i.e. that there will be educational and professional training of police officers in SIPA, so there will be other laws applied by SIPA in its work. And so is this whole text. So I'm asking: I don't know if this is about two institutions and I don't know if it's meant to be the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (SIPA), which is before, here in all this text changes and addition, so I'll be free to say one thing: The Special Protection Unit is the JSC; the Internal Control Department is the UK, to spell letters that are there; then there's another set of such abbreviations: the Financial Intelligence Department and the capital letters is FOOO; and then the Crime and Investigation Department is the KIO; the Witness Protection Department is the UNSC. And I see that recognizability of our languages in those abbreviations. I just don't know what SIPA is like. And also, in Article 14, he says, "Employments and tasks of the Special Protection Unit." The title is precisely Article 14. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. He speaks, but somehow it is not in the spirit of the language that the promoter had to offer to me in the Croatian version of the language. I think the Special Protection Unit should wear that as a special task force...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4838	Thank you very much. So the question is probably addressed to the proposer. The Proposer is the Council of Ministers. Is there anyone here willing to give an answer to the esteemed representative Jović? Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4839	: It was a comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4840	It was a comment, okay. Thank you very much. The debate is open. Would anyone else like a word before joining the amendment statement? I'm closing the debate. We will approach the statement on Mr. Rančić's amendments. We have all the amendments ahead of us and I am not going to read the amendments and ask who is for this amendment, but for the amandman I. that is before you, what have we heard the explanation of the motionor, Mr. Rančić, asking who is for gospodin Rančić's amandman? That's two and eight, ten. ‘Non’? Four.. voted "against". 19 So we have no entity support. Do we have a chance to agree? We don't. I'll put you to the vote in the second round. And in the second round, they must not have two-thirds and more votes "against", because in that case this amendment has not passed. So I ask the question: Who is “for”, who is“ abstention ” and who is “against” amandman I.? Can we? So we're going to make the same statement as we all think about this amendment. The amendment didn't receive support. amandman I. didn't go through. We'll make a statement about amandman II.. gospodin Rančić. Who is "for" this amendment? "Contained"? ‘Non’? We have the same result. We don't have consent. So it's the same story. In the second round, there must be no two-thirds and more votes from one entity "against". If so many votes are "against", then this amendment has not passed. So we will state who is "for", "abstained" or "against" this amendment? We have the same result. amandman II. He didn't make it. We'll make a statement about amandman III.. gospodin Rančić. Who is “for” amandman III..? "Contained"? ‘Non’? So "against" is four votes of consent we don't have. We don't have any amendments, so I don't want to ask any further. So, round two, we have to make a statement. The second round of voting is the same as in the first two amendments. Whoever is "for", "against" and "abstained", will be declared by lifting the cardboard. So this amendment did not receive support, amandman III.. Amendment IV. Who is “for” amandman iv.e. gospodin Rančić? Ten. ‘Non’? Four. We don't have the consent. We're going to the second round. Who is “for, ” “against, ” or“ abstention ”? I realize this amendment didn't go away because it doesn't have an entity majority. Amendment v. tko is "for" amandman v.? ‘Non’? Four. "Contained"? 20 No Mladen. We don't have entity support. The consent didn't go away. We'll repeat the second round of voting. Let those who are “for, ”“ against, ” or “abstained. ” I also find that amandman V. has not received support from the RS entity. Amendment VI. Who is “for” amandman vi.? ‘Agreement’ of amandman vi.? Four. We don't have the consent. We will declare ourselves in the second round: who is "for", "against" and "abstained". Amendment VI. did not get the necessary entity majority. We're going to Amendment VII. Who is “for” amandman vii..? Ten. ‘Agreement’ of amandman vii.. Four... We don't have the consent. Who in the second round is "for", "against" and "abstained"? I find that we have the same result. Šaraba, it's an identical result, so we don't have entity support for amandman vii.. Who's "for" amandman vi, please? ‘Non’? Four “against. ” We don't have entity support. We don't have the consent of another entity. We will repeat the second round: who is "for", "against" or "abstained"... Amendment VIII? Four votes from one entity, two-thirds, and we don't have any support for amandman vi. I understand Mr. Rančić's amendments didn't pass in the second round. We will join the plea now on this law, in the second reading, on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Agency for Protection Investigations. Who is "for" this bill? I find that – whether there is someone "against", "abstained", there is no one – unanimously accepted the proposal of this law in the same form as it was accepted in the House of Representatives. Moving to point 9. 21 Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Border Police Act (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The House of Representatives accepted the proposal of this law in the same form. In our case, the amendments were renewed: Mr Ivo Miro Jović three amendments, and Mr Hazim Rančić two amendments. Before I open the debate, I ask if there is any need for further explanations, Mr. Jović, Mr. Rančić? Here, in that order, you have submitted the amendments. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4842	: Thank you very much and very briefly. In amandman I., it seems quite logical, the word of the ministry, means when a appointment is sought and the Director's discharge is not made by the ministry but by the minister. And I'd take it under language. Same as in amandman III.. When spoken behind the word operationally, it is an article 13, it is quite logical that operational cooperation involves international operational police cooperation. So it's just precision. But when amandman II., it was exactly the same explanation that the distinguished colleague Rančić gave for the previous law. In one way, we make it impossible for the Agency to be an integral part of the Ministry in the budgetary sense and finance available to the minister; it would be logical to make this solution in this law. However, since the Agency is an independent entity in financial terms and at the disposal of the Director, it is no more logical to block its work than to be able to operate on the means available to it and to act hastily in order to obtain it. Because right here it is said that it refers only to those goods that are not from the Council of Ministers prescribed as standardized equipment. This would improve the functionality of the overall work of the agencies.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4843	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. We will hear each other's proposals, and then we will declare ourselves in a series of amendments tabled on amendments. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4844	Thank you very much. I will speak briefly but not because my colleagues have discouraged me by voting, but because I have submitted only two amendments to this law. The essence of both amendments is the same... also related to amendments relating to the SIPA Act, which is that amandman I. applies to Article 10. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Director's competence in the basic text of the law and my amendment prescribes it in such a way as to give all 22 powers to the Agency to obtain, not only standardised equipment to be reached in collaboration with agencies and the Council of Ministers, but also other necessary equipment for the work of the Border Police. Also related to activities related to education, vocational training and training, and related to police officers in the Border Police, that these activities will be conducted not under the Border Police, as has been so far under the existing law, but in accordance with new laws: in the Directorate for Coordination and in the framework of the BiH Police Training and Training Agency for Police Authorities. This is amandman I. amandman II.. ... prescribes the co-operation of the Border Police with foreign law enforcement authorities in criminal matters, of course, in a way that is done through the BiH Police Coordination Directorate and other competent authorities and BiH institutions. That's it. I ask colleagues and colleagues to support these amendments because they improve the text of this law on amendments and additions to the BiH Border Police Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4845	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. We heard authorized promoters. Is there a need for Mr. Zrno, chairman of the Joint Defence and Security Committee?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4846	I don't need to be here because we have this report a little bit more detailed from this defense and security committee, so it's all said.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4847	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. We will join a statement on Mr Jović's and Mr Rančić's amendments. I'm putting Mr. Jovic on the statement of gospodin Jović's amandman. Who is "for" this amendment by Mr. Jović? Thirteen, fourteen. ‘Non’? One voice “abstained. ” So Mr. Jović's amandman received support, passed, became an integral part of this law. Amendment II. gospodin Jović. Who is “for” amandman II.. gospodin Jović?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4848	23 [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4849	We'll finish the vote, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4850	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4851	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4852	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4853	You'll withdraw your amendment if that's the case.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4854	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4855	Forgive me, we are now voting on Mr. Jović's amendments. We'll get to your amendment I. and you'll say what you think. I put it on amandman II.'s statement. gospodin Jović. One “abstained. ” ...so, amandman II. has passed. gospodin Jović, with 14 votes. Amendment III. Mr. Jović. Who is “for” amandman III.. gospodin Jović? He received 13 votes and one "abstained". We're moving on to a statement on Mr. Rančić's amendments. Amendment I. Mr. Rančić. There's something you wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4856	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4857	Amendment I? Whether you withdraw your amendment or we will plead on your amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4858	_________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] 24 [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4859	Please, no, if he isn't, if he won't withdraw, if Rančić doesn't withdraw his amendment, we will plead on his amendment. Please, who is "for" this amendment by Mr. Rančić, amandman I..? ‘Non’? Three. ‘Contained’ three; five ‘abstained’. The amendment did not receive entity support. We don't have a Tihić. We'll leave that for a match... _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Wait a minute, he doesn't have a general majority. The amendment did not receive support, did not receive support. We're going to Amendment II. Mr. Rančić. Who is “for” amandman II.. gospodin Rančić? That's 10 votes. "Agreeds? Three votes. And "abstained" two votes. No entity support. We should go to the second round, we should agree. We don't have Mr. Tihić. We'll leave it for a match and we'll put it on next session. At the next session, we will see the fate of amandman II.. gospodin Rančić. I ask you now to vote on this law, with amendments accepted. _________(?) Don't, we've got to work this out sooner.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4864	So, you've received a report on the draft fiscal cash registers bill that you've been delivered and the position of the competent commission so I wouldn't comment on it, but I want to say something else. And last time I commented that since the final phase of implementation of this law is in the RS, we cannot accept voting. So it was immediately and clearly clear, because voting "yes" would mean the whole process that has been going on there for three years, which would be really pointless. But what is more important is for representatives who come from the Federation that the FBiH finance ministry adviser recently said that the Federation government has also established a draft law on fiscal cash registers and intends to release it in the process soon. This means that it is expected to end this law, meaning it will not be adopted on the House of Peoples. I, too, congratulate the Federation Government on this important project, which will make the revenue side of the budget a newer quality, and business will become more legal for business operators and consumers. Thus, the position of Serbian delegates is that we will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4865	Thank you very much. Here, we heard Mrs. Majkić's position. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4866	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll make a very different opinion than Mrs. Majkić. I believe that the current RS and the Federation are in a completely irregular position at least when it comes to fiscalization. Since BiH is a unique economic space, I believe, I express my personal opinion, so the fiscalisation project should exist throughout BiH and I have just said it for one and 26 practical reasons, which is that there are certain companies in RS in the border areas that are now going and registering in the Federation, so they avoid the obligation they have and are meant to fulfil. The fiscalisation project is therefore, in my opinion, a unique project in BiH and I will support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4867	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Mr. Koprivic, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4868	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also at last session, when we had in the first reading of the Law on fiscal cash registers, pointed out that this law cannot be adopted at the level of BiH, because the regulation and regulation of the internal traffic of goods and services as well as the registration of goods and services governed by this law is the constitutional jurisdiction of the entities, i.e. the RS, the Federation and the jurisdiction of the Brcko District. The fiscal cash register law, as already said, was passed in the RS in 2007, July 17th, and published in the Official Messenger; that means one process that is already in progress. The relevant sublegal regulations and acts necessary for the fiscalisation process were also adopted so that this would indeed mean a return to the beginning. The National Assembly of the RS also gave the RS government the opportunity to sign an agreement with the Federation government to implement provisions on an indirect taxation system, and after agreement was reached between the entities, the Law on an indirect taxation system in BiH was adopted. And what I want to say in the end is that, in respect of these views that I have already pointed out and the fact that the RS has not transferred the power to adopt the 'GDP Law' in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as prescribed by the BiH Constitution – for this reason we are contesting the adoption of this law, especially for the reasons why it is an amandman to XXXII.. the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the RS, in addition, regulates property and bond relations and protects all forms of property and legal position of enterprises and other organisations, their associations and chambers, economic relations with abroad that are not transferred to BiH institutions, market and planning. That's all the reasons why we won't vote for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4869	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Professor Ivanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4870	I would rather have one more question, especially... if Mrs. Majkić or one of my colleagues could: What are the negative consequences of the adoption of this law by the existing fiscalisation in RS? What 27 specifically? Does this mean that we should reregister those who gave, does this mean that we would have to start all over again, would it lose autonomy in terms of decision making, who could license and so on? I'd like to go straight for a commitment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4871	Thank you very much. Here, we heard the question. Would you like some, Mrs. Majkić? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4872	I certainly don't need you, Mr. Ivanić, to tell you what it would mean to get back to the beginning. We are three years of severe torment, and now still at the final stage of that third group of users that is covered, we have indeed suffered while we are at this stage where we are. Another new law that would come now would fully understand that RS must come, return to the beginning and agree the law... means the law we have at the entity level, with the law we have at BiH level. What does that mean? I can't imagine what that means, here. That, I mean, must be clear to you what that would mean. We would have to do the harmonisation of the law because in that case, and it is not an obligation, why should we be at BiH level? Why not, here's probably the Federation is aware that they should do it, so they've already done the bill. The greater expectation is that the law will not pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4873	Thank you very much. Professor Ivanić, you've got the answer. Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4874	I would tell Mr. Koprivici that this isn't about the traffic of goods, this is about tax collection, and the VAT we know how to collect, we know how all indirect taxes are collected, and that's why I think this place is on state level. If it is, I am fully in agreement with Šarab and I am convinced, I have not been comparatively watching one law and another, that there is nothing to change in the RS. Whoever has the fiscal register, he's going to have to type in what he's selling and that information can no longer be deleted and she's going to go somewhere in some dump where they're there, I don't know what would be revolutionaryly changing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4875	Mr. Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4876	Well, here, Mr. Chairman, I'll, somewhere on the trail of Mr. Ivanić, just publicly asking and I'm not asking anyone to answer that question, so I'll just say it for the public. 28 We are witnessing the last few sessions that certain political groups come into conflict with themselves, in a way that certain legal solutions, so I don't speak today... in one part, in one text of the law,... that this is done in one political interest, the second time was the second or third, it doesn't matter what it is anymore, but it happens that the same political forces adopt the law at the House of Representatives, and then they bring it down in this House. It would be logical that, in accordance with democratic standards, the law destroys those political forces that oppose it both at the adoption stage and at the House of Representatives. It seems to me that this practice is being introduced and I can honestly tell you, I can't understand at political or moral level where this practice is going, but here, we'll see the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4877	Thank you very much. Replica at the hearing of Mr Rajić, Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4878	Mr. Rajić, I have a voting list in the House of Representatives in front of me. The law passed because there were not enough nine, meaning two-thirds of RS lawmakers to pass the law. So there weren't enough physical people to make the law and that's why it came our way. So, in conclusion, with Mr. Branko Dokić, who was also "against". So there was a vote in the second reading for the draft fiscal register law. So it wasn't, not because they voted there "yes", but it wasn't... two-thirds "against".
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4879	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4880	Can I just answer that?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4881	The line, just a little bit, has Mr. Rajić's replica, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4882	Mrs. Majkić realized that this principled remark was aimed at RS representatives today. Yeah, she did, she motivated me, but she's not targeting them. Similarly it happened before a session or two when the Bosniak Club acted quite the opposite of what the Bošnjak were doing at the House of Representatives. So, I'm talking about it. I don't know which mathematical relations there ruled, whether a number of votes were needed or not, but the fact is that representatives of the same political options differ in two homes, and that's what I find inconsistencies. I'm not accusing you of that, I'm just finding out, that's all. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4883	Thank you very much. You didn't ask a question or ask for an answer. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4884	I just wanted to say one comment on Mrs. Majkić's presentation about harmonising entity law with this law that we are now adopting here. So there is no obligation in this law to comply with this law. Therefore, it is not prescribed by the text of the law and there is no obligation to comply.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4885	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Mr. Koprivica. Here you go. Is that a replica of Šarab or Mr Rajić?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4886	I would like to supplement the earlier commentary on this law, first of all, regarding Mr Ibrahimpašić's comment. The adoption of this fiscal cash register law as a regulation that controls... the total turnover from which the basis for the collection of both direct and indirect taxes arises – it is not in the jurisdiction of the Management Board of indirect taxation. And that's why this committee didn't even give an opinion under this law. That's familiar. Also, by the RS, as Mrs Majkić said, on several occasions, recommendations have been made for the Federation to pass the same law, and that this law should be implemented in the procedure, namely that... in BiH, we would have the same solution in terms of fiscalisation... we think that we have done an excellently good job in RS and we propose that such an approach be fully implemented, i.e. the same procedure in the Federation, given the reforms carried out in entities and Brcko District. I think there would be one really turning back completely if you would now adopt at the state level this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4887	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. Anybody else want a word? We've exhausted the debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the draft fiscal register bill in the second reading. Who is "for" this bill? That's 10, 11. Who Is “against ”? The "against" is three votes. "Retentions"? One. 30 No entity support. We don't have Mr. Tihić to match. When he comes back, we'll agree and put the second round back in the second round of voting. We're going to move to point 11. Point 11 is: Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production within the CEFTA Agreement (second reading) – Proposer: House of Representatives It's a law that we conducted a very, very extensive debate in the first reading. I wish we didn't repeat everything we've said, because we've made ourselves clear under the bill of this law. There were no amendments in the amendment phase, because those who are against this law hold that there is nothing to fix and therefore did not submit their amendments. It was mostly, in the first reading when we talked about the principles, the Croatian People's Club in the House of Peoples. Those who supported this law refused to change anything and there was no amendment. The commission accepted the bill in the proposed text. But I'd like to ask you... to report to the chairman of our board of directors Alma Čolo. Congratulations on your defensive mastery. Here, let's hear the Commission's position.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4889	Thank you, Chairman. I don't know, in the previous debate, given that on two occasions we discussed this law, both in the first reading of the House session and at the House session held on 20. 5. when you have approved the extension of the amendment phase and the extension of the deadline for reporting, I think it is quite said at these two sessions. The Commission has asked the House to extend this amendment phase and the deadline for submitting the reports for the following reasons. Given that we had no indication that it was the competent ministry, here the esteemed minister has taken appropriate steps towards taking appropriate actions at consultations with the parties of the parties, because there has been excessive imports of certain products into the BiH area by the other two Contracting States, Serbia-Montenegro, and Article 23 of the CEFTA Agreement suggests that the parties will enter into consultations if excessive imports occur and if this leads to serious market disturbances, the parties will immediately enter into consultations to avoid this disturbance, and if there is no consultation, the Commission has no evidence that the parties have entered into the consultation process, and Article 23 bis provides for the possibility of introducing unilateral measures if those consultations take place or if there is no consultation, and if there is no consultation, the possibility of introducing any measures, we, leaving room for these consultations, have extended this period. You know this law was adopted in April in a second reading at the House of Representatives. So we've been waiting two months for something to be done to protect domestic producers, especially in the area of agricultural production. We have no answers when it comes to the protection of agricultural producers and on the Commission, 31 of the majority of the votes we have decided to support this law and to propose to the House today its adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4890	Thank you very much. Here, we heard the report from the chairman of the relevant committee. I will only say before I open the debate that we are probably aware of the situation in which, and the facts, is whether, in which we have received a warning from all relevant European addresses about the harmfulness of accepting the proposal of this law. I'm opening a debate and a conscience and a conscience for everyone to decide the way they think this bill should be made known. I'm opening a debate. So, Mr. Šaraba, then Mr. Vidović, then Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4891	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just before the beginning of this session, I received a letter from the RS Chamber of Commerce from the meat producer, which clearly and precisely cited five reasons why we here today should support this law. And I'll read them for a while. 1. The first reason is a violation of Article 12. CEFTA agreements from countries in the region. The Republic of Serbia abuses Article 12 by applying sanitary and phytosanitary measures. The agreements and practically for over three years prevents the import of cattle and products containing beef. 2. Infringement of Article 14. CEFTA Agreement. Montenegro and Macedonia do not have a significant Syrian base for greater production of meat processed meat, and mainly their producers and meat processors import from Brazil, Argentina and EU countries which, to a lesser extent, contribute to the EUR 1 form issued by their countries without customs duties in BiH. 3. Infringement of Article 19. CEFTA Agreement. The owners of trade chains from Serbia and Croatia are blackmailing and discriminating our businesses compared to theirs. In addition to the desire to achieve extra profits, by charging entry for our products in trade chains, as well as various payments of extra rebates on various grounds, trade chains in neighbouring countries and in BiH artificially raise prices for our products. 4. Infringement of Article 21. CEFTA Agreement. Serbia and Croatia are directly affecting the competitiveness of our meat producers and processors in their countries, although the Agreement has pledged to prevent this kind of discrimination against our goods. 5. Our exporters at border crossings are held for the necessary and unnecessary, intentional or unintentional reasons for three to 15 days, while the importers in BiH and the same procedures are conducted for a very short time, during one to eight hours, all due to the establishment of 32 procedures by the state or abuse of procedures by customs and veterinary officials. Therefore, these are clear and precise reasons with their request and desire and, of course, one application to address the issue of abuse of the EUR 1 form and thus to bring domestic producers into an entirely equal position. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4892	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. In this order, I have applications: Mr Vidović, Jović, pa Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4893	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I welcome colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the Council of Ministers and all present today. I'm not going to say what I said when we first read this law, but I feel the need as a member of the competent committee, which was here against the second stage of reading, just to say a few words. In fact, they also concern me as a member of this committee to extend the amendment phase 24 hours before holding a competent session with the aim of obtaining any amendments that would improve the proposed law, but more with a view to carrying out further consultations and obtaining any positive opinions from all those who have chosen me not to support this law in the first reading. Given that until today and until this session, the committee that was held the other day, none of the competent institutions, who have warned that this law is harmful to BiH, have changed their opinions, even the additional opinions that have come here say that this law is harmful, and I also feel the need for a pay phone, so before I am determined to be against it, and I am telling nature that I am staying with the same opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4894	Thank you very much. Mr. Jović. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4895	Thank you very much. In receiving documentation for today's meeting, we all have these papers, but, in order to inform the public, may I be allowed just a few things to emphasize, certainly, while everything remains what I said and in the first reading when it comes to this law. 33 You, the Honorable President, were precisely your conclusion, when last time there was a session with this item of the agenda, which we have adopted here, we asked for consultations to be carried out and relevant factors to get information about the strength and meaning of this law... BiH, a serious or non-serious partner in the interview at the level, whether bilateral, whether it be multilateral talks, agreements, compliance with the agreement, etc. Based on that conclusion, we have received this opinion and the Council of Ministers here. Among other things, it guides us, and I thank them, that in the contract CEFTA itself there is a way of protecting its own market and manufacturer. In this case, it wasn't done, nor was it respected. So that's where the procedure is scheduled, and this law is clearly not a procedure. And we are explicitly told that the proposed law violates the CEFTA Treaty, European integration, in the same spirit, same light and identical. The EU, in fact, a delegation from the European Commission for BiH, is the exact same opinion. I am interested in whether we can hear and are truly committed to being a recognizable country, and are we committed to respecting international agreements and to act at all times for the benefit of BiH? I think here, I have to be honest, it's about a false representation of BiH's protection. And why is that? I'm going to read the excerpt from the proposer's explanation of this law. 'Agricultural producers are mostly in loans, and this situation is causing them indifference, inability to carry out their obligations to banks, and some have started the operation, property is going to public auction, and some are close to the situation. And now,... the drought, the harvesting of cereals has further worsened the state of production compared to the Republic of Croatia, and Serbia. They have enough grain for their own needs, and BiH producers are forced to buy grains on the world market." I don't have a word. We're going to go to the world market, and it's not right for our neighbors to do that to us. And if there had been a moral proposal, then the law would have applied to CEFTA signatories' countries. So if we don't have some more significant trade exchange, but on the moral principle, if we oppose the international treaty and respect for the contracts signed by BiH, the Council of Ministers, the Directorate for European Integration, the international factors that want to help us here, then at least that step could be made to be, if we violate the... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4896	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4897	One more, I'm sorry, later on. Today we have the approval of ratification and I will ask the president, it will be my proposal, that we each declare this agreement, regardless of whether it will be precedentd in our work, but points 28 and 32 on my part will not get a vote, because it is international contracts that this country will not respect again.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4898	Thank you very much. 34 Mr. Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4899	Here, I'll go back to something that, I think, all of us MPs, or delegates, have forgotten. We took an oath by entering the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, following democratic elections. And then we swore, or all of us swore to obey the Constitution and the laws of this country, and to carry out our work as a representative, or delegate, knowingly and responsibly. At the beginning of the debate on this issue before the plea, I remind all of you and myself of this obligation not to succumb, and obviously that we are well subject to the daily political interests and numerous manipulations that have taken place in BiH in recent weeks, and we forget this obligation, and we will go across the hills and across the valleys, through water and through fire, through moral and immoral procedures, even if it has been in conflict with the whole world. I immediately say that I am in conflict with the civilization I belong to and in which we want to bring this country I will not come. I have not accepted the principles of this law, and I will not accept the text of the law, regardless of any amendments, because I do not think the wrong proposal can be corrected by any amendments. I was against the principle, because I claimed and then today I claim there is no constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. Both our committees for constitutional affairs at both homes, and one and a long one, made a catastrophic mistake when they claimed that there was a valid legal basis, that is, the BiH Constitution. There can't be if there is an international legal act, an international contract which has been governed by domestic law ratified by all BiH bodies and in which we have participated. However, in this country, it seems to me that we are going back to some old habits, what is at some point useful is allowed. I won't give in to that logic. The public in BiH and the part that is directly interested in the adoption of this law is on its feet, people are hard, people are pushed into such a situation that they must fight with all the democratic means and pressures they are exerting on this parliament today to achieve some of their rights. Unfortunately, however, those who allegedly support them turn them on the wrong path. It is not the way to solve the accumulated problems of the country's social sector to face the EU and its real gains in order to lose 100,000 in some units today. And I'm telling you, by this law, if we adopt it, we're going to get on a small jar, and we're going to lose on a huge bridge. The colleagues mentioned, and in the first reading we talked about, that all of us who allegedly are against us are probably going to get a label of lack of patriotic genes, we're not enough Bosnian Herzegovic patriots, they're going to object to us a lot, but I as a person, as an individual, I'm crucified between the following feelings. I am more than the promoter from the House of Representatives, who passed this law, I am more to protect domestic production but in accordance with law, not according to private projections of groups and interesting lobbies. I am in favour of respecting international commitments, not because I am a formalist, but because this is the way and key to opening the accession process, stabilising and including BiH in Euro-Atlantic integration without which this country has no future, and we know the present. I am in favour of preserving my own conscience in the work, and I expect that the majority of my fellow MPs will behave in this way, that they will defend their right to conscientious action. And I am also, on the other hand, in the last place, but not in rank, but in the last one, seriously concerned about the consequences that we will produce by adopting such a law. 35 Some colleagues have been mentioned who have called all the international institutions, i.e. European institutions, and have warned us of violations of international law. Not to say that this has been said by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, that the Council of Ministers has said, that our Directorate for European Integration has said, that the Ambassador of the European Commission has said in charge of our country and that I am not counting further, who has not said everything: Gentlemen, do not make mistakes, do not make that mistake, you have no right! Now I'm talking to the public through the proposer. The applicant did not, for no reason or other practical reason, suspend the provisions of all Articles 22 to 24, he calls for 22, 23, and skips the 24th because he undertakes that in the appropriate procedure prescribed by the CEFTA, there are market disturbances and in agreement with the signatories countries, as Mr Jović said, not with two but with seven or eight, as many as there are, to determine where the disturbances occurred, a resolution agreement is sought; if not, then access to unilateral protection decisions... domestic production. However, the proposer skips it. Instead of asking the Council of Ministers to respond within a period of time and take action, he proposes the law and assures us that I do not personally think that all the legislators of this law are in conflict of interest, that they could not, should not be legislators of such a law, but good. So, when we plead today, I will be determined not to support this law, deeply saddened that we cannot help farmers in a more correct and effective way in BiH, I will define myself against this law, because I am deeply convinced that it closes the prospects of BiH, that it will compromise the values that we have achieved by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and that it will produce economic damage in the following way: we will no longer have excessive imports, as it is said on a flat-rate basis, we will not have a deficit of external trade with Croatia and Serbia, we will have with Slovenia or with another country. Imports aren't going down. BiH's exports to these countries will fall apart. The consequences will be more difficult for BiH, for its residents and for its producers, and I dare not talk about political damages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4900	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Wrong quote, Mr. Šaraba. What quote and who?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4901	Mr. Rajić. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, my dear and dear friend Mr. Rajić, speaking of this text of the law, mentioned at one point the manipulations concerning the adoption of this law. I'd really like to know if someone manipulated someone and influenced them in one way or another. What I'm just saying is that between not voting for this law and supporting these people who are looking for and praying and crying for help, I chose... these people who have, in this particular and correct way, turned to the request and asked for help. Thank you. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4902	Thank you very much. This is a second reading, so let's keep that in mind. Mr Ibrahimpašić, then Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4903	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to tell you that our basic problem in the trade with neighbors is that we don't have a mutual agreement on the recognition of product quality certificates. On the one hand, these countries that are a lot of organization from us, they have, of course, organized these huge distractions in order not to recognize our certificate: the goods that enter into the customs zone are taken a sample, waiting 20 days and a change of days to be examined and then released. And in us all the process is over not in eight hours – with me upstairs on Izačić it will be over in half an hour. So we admit everything, precisely because we're not organized and we can't organize, for which reasons I don't know, that we're making these interferences, even though these interferences can't be a way out. For example, the other day, the Veterinary Office or the Office, as we call it, I don't know, nor do I, the banning imports of chicken meat, I don't know what was there, because in a similar way, that other side did the same thing to us. Immediately thereafter, ministers and arrangements meet, there are agreements, among other things, and imports and exports, namely, of our beef to Croatia, which we could not export for nine years. Where's CEFTA? For nine years, we've been banned from importing it. Now... of course, Croatia solves its problem, ban imports of cheese, milk, I don't know, but cheese I know because it takes about eight liters of milk to solve its milk problem and you won't export, no one will export cheese to Croatia. So it's mutually mutual, completely mutual, except now we're the culprits here because we haven't found any other way. Our executive authority didn't organize itself to make the same pranks, so they sit down and say, "Wait, guys, where are we going to do this like this, and we've gotten to the food deficits, I think, about 2 billion in food!? That's why I want to vote for this law and get serious here first. If he didn't do anything, he made us pass a law like this. Otherwise, by the way, I'm not personally up for closing. We are too little market to afford that luxury, but we have no other way to force our executive authority to organize to do it right. Finally, at the Commission, the legislator of this law informed us that OHR, who was also visiting and EU representative, had corrected their opinion on what we are talking about here. I'd like him to say that here, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4904	Thank you very much. Replica at Mr Ibrahimpašić's hearing: Jović, for the first time. 37 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4905	: What the esteemed colleague was saying would make sense if the law proposed that he solves how to organise himself better, which we as a government will do to improve productivity, production, price reduction, stimulate farmers, etc. The key conclusion is through the whole and the story and this law: Let's buy on the world market, and let's not shop in the neighborhood! That's the main message of this law. And secondly, these issues are not dealt with by law but by improving the quality of the missing institutions. Example: 70 million invested marks for one eco-pallet factory. After 10 days, I was invited to say: Mr. Jović, you opened the factory, and we can't perform any, because there is no institution that can hit the mark in BiH in order to protect itself from going to the world market. And then I called my colleagues and friends from the Republic of Croatia, for two and a half years people were exporting pallets, eco-pallets, thanks to the impact of the seal of phyto-protection from the Republic of Croatia. So is she guilty? I just read a paragraph -- it's the drought, the lack of organisation, the credit incompetence of the manufacturer -- and that's why our neighbors are guilty.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4906	Thank you very much. It's a replica on the line. Here you go, Mr. Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4907	One example of our cereals buy grain... but mainly from Croatia; here is Klas, but can't get it, they are not recognised in Croatia when it is processed into some processing and exports to Croatia. Then they do not recognise the EUR 1 in Croatia. What do you want him to do? Then he'd better buy in Hungary, so he'd have to give him EUR 1. So it's a complex question. If we don't go to all sorts of things, I'm just saying that someone has to start solving this problem, otherwise we're going to go to the ambis, we, we're going to go to the Ambis. Someone's got to, here's what Parliament's taken now, because we haven't had any big help solving this from our executive authority so far. She couldn't, I know, I'm talking, I've had a chance to listen to Mr. Secretary say he won't even talk, that he's running away from the phone that, yeah, that's all said in one big rally in federal government, the last time we were. This is the first time a minister has left, if I'm not mistaken. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4908	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4909	Not now, that's exactly the last time, Jović. So we have to start solving this problem and we're done. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4910	Thank you very much. 38 Therefore, we have more counsels reported to Koprivica, and then we will grant the request for the word of Minister Zirojević. Here you go, Mr. Koprivic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4911	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In principle, I understand the comments of all delegates who, in their previous address, have highlighted their open opposition to the adoption of such a law, and I really respect the reasons they highlighted, above all, the respect of the provisions of the CEFTA Agreement, an international agreement signed by BiH, and I really appreciate those reasons. The law, as is known, has been in the process before this parliament for almost half a year and has been adopted, as you say, in a second reading at the House of Representatives. However, I would point out this opportunity and several reasons in favour of the adoption of this law. First of all, according to some estimates that truly have their full foundation, additional revenues will be provided in the Budget of BiH by adopting such a law of close to 500 million marks. It will significantly reduce import pressure from neighbouring countries so that our production, above all, means agricultural production, can survive in these conditions. It is also known that in neighbouring countries, for example in Croatia, the incentives for agricultural production are over a billion marks. With recent protests from farmers, the billion has doubled. So two billion marks. That's really the exact data. So our farmers, in that case, I compare only to the neighbours of Croatia, would have ten times less incentives, which really clearly tells what kind of inequality is... when it comes to agricultural production. This law would create such conditions for reviving this domestic production. Many have talked about the countermeasures that our neighbours will eventually take in case this law is passed today at a session of the House of Peoples. These countermeasures, according to some thinkers, could even be desirable because they would open up the possibility for a product palette that is now being protected to expand and that complete agricultural production would receive a different treatment and thus significantly increase revenues in our budget, according to these estimates, close to 500 million marks. So these are the reasons that are quite the opposite of what we heard and have had the opportunity to hear from certain delegates that there is no basis for adopting such a law. I therefore, esteeming all of this that we've talked about today, I'm going to define myself to this other variant, so I'm going to support the adoption of this one law, because at this point I don't think we have a simple different solution and a different way out. Of course, I would also like to hear the opinion of Mr. Minister present here, but I really think that adopting this law on the protection of domestic production at this point is necessary and necessary. And, therefore, I propose to the House that we accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4912	Thank you very much. So, before I give my word to the esteemed Minister Zirojević, I have a request here and Mr Jerko Lijanović, who is the legislator of this law in the House of Representatives. I didn't decide to give the word to Mr. Lijanović and let him not think it was personal. You said yours in the House of Representatives and you got support. Proposer You are not the law in this home but is the proposing House of Representatives. Therefore, the House of Representatives is governed by the law that we are discussing today in a second reading. That's why I'm not holding relevant that you speak to us today. I gave you my word in first reading when we discussed this law. I ask the Honorable Minister Zirojević to take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4913	Dear Mr. Chairman, respected delegates, well, I think this law is more or less said by who knows which time. It is a clear position of the Council of Ministers, a clear position of the resolution ministry on which I am headed, but I simply couldn't resist coming to this session of the House of Peoples even though I opened an important conference this morning on the energy community. I couldn't miss the chance to come to you and tell you one more time and try to warn the MPs not to do what they're doing, and now it's quite certain that there will be an adoption of this controversial law. Before I go into the essence, I'm going to comment briefly on the thumping of certain delegates, first of all, Mrs. Čolo. Take the tone record and see that you mentioned Serbia-Montenegro. Montenegro and I have had a surplus 300% for years. With Serbia, 52.5% export coverage and 1.5% growth each year. So much for you. Mr. Šarab, you read a memo from the Chamber of Commerce representative where they say Serbia is causing problems when exporting certain goods to Serbia from BiH and are worried about it. That you have consulted at least that village veterinarian and he is directed enough to state the reasons so that BiH cannot export beef to Serbia. I recently said when I met with Minister Pankretić that Croatia has no right to such behaviour, caused an eruption of enthusiasm especially among businessmen, and has no right because Croatia and Serbia, or BiH, are in the same rank, on the same list as the OIE, or organisation that cares about animal health, and Croatia has no right to do so, and Serbia has, because they are better ranked. And my colleagues in the veterinary unit explained to me that Serbia is making a concession to BiH if it allows us to import meat from Serbia that will be incorporated into the final product and returned to Serbia. So you can't discuss this unargumentedly. Mr. Koprivica, a little correction. You're saying that Serbia and Croatia single out a billion KMs to stimulate agricultural production. Last time I presented here, it was 1,250,000 and at lunch with Mr Pankretić, a new figure of 1,350,000 marks, or equivalents in euro. Croatia stands out for stimulating agricultural production plus funds from IPA funds, as it is provided to them as a candidate country, the 5th component where the most money is, and Serbia also, with no access to IPA funds. It means more. If I tell you that at the level of the BiH state, 175 million stand out, then it is clear that we are in an unequal relationship. There are fundamental problems. That the proposed law is contrary to international agreements, above all to CEFTA and thus to the SAA, I guess that is clear and many important people, international officials and top interpreters... said so. However, they did not enter into the other illogicalities of this law, and I will briefly mention them because there are indeed many. 40 You have suggested to me, or you have said that the ministry has done nothing in terms of consultations with Serbia and Croatia in order to find a compromise solution. What am I supposed to go with? With the text of the law, with Parliament's conclusion that, under the text of the law, I would like to have a conversation with the rest of my colleagues: here's to see how we will protect domestic production in BiH, how will you help us? So they can read, and let me repeat that, by that law, we are asking for a full customs rate for the 954 tariff lines, of which 70% does not enter BiH at all, nor has it ever been the subject of imports from any country. These are clear data from the Department of Directly, they have a fantastic information system and there's no mistake. I mentioned in the media exotic products whose protection we are looking for here, horse meat and whale meat, seals and kiwis and peanuts and palm nuts, that's what this law requires. Why didn't you go... into the analysis? Please, we need to be serious here, what am I supposed to talk to my colleagues, the rest ministers? Among other things, this law requires the introduction of a full customs rate for milk: with Croatia 62% coverage, fantastic coverage, and every year it grows. And hence that reaction of Croatia in February when it banned us from importing milk, i.e. made the procedure difficult for customs purposes. And it's not clear to me that these representatives of the dairy industry haven't come forward, here today I am probably the most frequently mentioned person in BiH on these numerous myths that are probably... the legislator, but my Bog. What should we talk about? We're looking for a full milk rate, we're standing there, we're growing export. You will see that this dairy industry will end when Croatia introduces a higher rate... our rates are approximately 0.5% – 10% and 15%, on agricultural products 10%. And when we introduce about 10% of Croatia and Serbia on these tariff lines, they'll charge us 30-40, because they're incomparably higher tariff rates, yes, customs tariffs, so plus means the value of the import tax goods are calculated by VAT, you'll see where the competitiveness of our exporters is. Why aren't they working, what are you talking about? I'll see them in two months if you pass this law today. I wish I was wrong, but you'll see that's not the case. I just wish that at least part of your impressions from that meeting I made with the entity trade ministers in the Federation government, 50 businessmen, be honest, say what you think of the ministry's work. So can what's not done for 16 years be corrected, and then all of a sudden? Please... say the Minister for the first time here. How's the first time? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? Now, please, you can't fix what hasn't been done in years. You've seen me cook, of course, for the opposite. Were you a witness that I initiated the meeting to be attended by the directors of all inspection bodies. They're people, they're institutions where you can lift a hand and you can't talk about it. And this isn't exactly so intimate... that's what you should talk about, that's how you treat it, but that's not what you're talking about, you know. But, uh, about that, by that. I mentioned Montenegro, and here is the UNIK-led area and Albania and Macedonia with which we have a surplus, Croatia and Serbia are ironing with us the surplus that they have with the EU and we have with them. But what do people do? They're ćutjeti, they're suffering, they're meeting the European Partnership obligations, and they're moving faster than we are in Europe. The sooner they will be in a position to be a candidate country, and the sooner 41 approaches to IPA funds will be opened, which are intended to depreciate all these disasters. Shut up, nobody's responding. Here, let me go back to Croatia. A full rate is proposed for vegetables and fruits from Croatia. In Croatia last year... 5.5m euros exported and imported 4.30. People will laugh at us. I've recently been to England and many important countries where, apart from the official visitation, I'm invited simply by people to some informative conversations, they say, are you aware of what you're doing, so I tell them, and what you're saying to me, are you aware of my attitude. Six steps back, we are going back on that European path. The truth is this: elections are close, this is already the beginning of an election campaign, and that's why today's law will get support, because it's indicative that, by who knows which time, the law is proposed and does not get support in the House of Representatives for the same reasons that I have now stated and suddenly passes. Everyone is afraid of so many populations as farmers are to resent. That's the point. And BiH's position to suffer very quickly because of this, that's a different story. About WTO, here we are finally after nine years of being able to successfully end these negotiations, to hear this story won't see us, no matter what. And what he said, I don't know which of the distinguished delegates, anything that will not be imported into Serbia and Croatia, because it will be additionally burdened with import duties, because it will likely be uncompetitively introduced from Slovenia, will be introduced from the EU. We're an import-dependent country and we have to buy what we don't have. And we are not fundamentally changing anything. I'm going back to our low customs rates again. You know, when this tariff was introduced in 1998, it's what it is, now there's no correction, we signed a Stabilisation Agreement, they can no longer change, increase and decrease compared to some European averages. So we introduced levies, special taxes on imported goods that are charged per unit of measure... And what happened to those levies? Is that money charged on that basis... by farmers after stimulation? Well, they say they're not. All of this could have been done in another way, so we wouldn't be resented, through existing regulations, through your decision since 2002, through the CEFTA Agreement, through the SAA, but in one prescribed procedure no one dared, no one dared, or could not arrange to come into this ministry and say, you brewers, is because ________________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4916	Thank you very much, Minister Zirovjević. We've got more. So we can open dialogue form now with the minister, we can open it, but I don't think it's right now that we're dealing with other things, and we're not talking about the measure of things. So we're talking about a very serious political move, the political decision of this home regarding this law. I wouldn't be solving the details right now... The minister is in the mood, so he said that, you are both a representative and a director with all relevant economies to open the story on all topics. At least that's the message I got, and that's how I understood it. We have a request for Mr. Zrn's discussion, and then Professor Neimarlija and Mrs. Dušanka Majkić. Here you go, Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4917	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't mean to communicate with the minister either, because I just wanted a few things to be done and invite us to finally take off the agenda what we call the CEFTA Agreement because it seems to me that the views are being nailed. I'm glad that I've listened to Mr. Zirojević twice, and I've finally found a form to call this law. This is a classic pirate law that comes across various lobbyist procedures in Parliament. Apart from any institution, competent institutions, I think, above all, the competent ministry, the Council of Ministers, means beyond any BiH institution and the opposite position not only of the CEFTA Agreement but of the complete international community, the position expressed through its institutions and in and outside BiH. I don't think it's necessary, I have no intention of advertising myself or my own attitude or my position, we've shown it as a club, we'll stay in our position. That's what I was going to say at the beginning, then we probably wouldn't, like us even open a debate that is. It's not bad to hear what's heard. It's just, if this law was offered to open a question of our own incompetence, then I don't think it should have been opened. I invite you, all colleagues, to really have this debate, because we all talk to ourselves, if we can change our attitudes, if we need time to do so, then let's take the time until the next session of our home, so if we can take this point off the agenda, with the conclusion that we need another 15 days. If that's just a possible way out of today's story, then I suggest that. If not, then we don't need to prove ourselves to the media or the people sitting here. I think we all know, absolutely all of us know what we're talking about and that in two months, as the minister has mentioned, we'll all ask ourselves what we've been doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4918	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. Professor Neimarlija, please. Did you ask for a word? Professor Neimarlija, you asked for a word, please. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4919	Yeah, I think I've been called, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4920	Yeah, yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4921	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fellow delegates, the guests, Professor Zrno said, here, if it were possible to postpone, however, there is obviously no possibility and I have wished that if there was a formal possibility that I wanted to say it after the plea, then that I would bear witness to my desire and ambition to react in principle to some of these discussions that were, not with motive or motivation to convince anyone of anything. But since this is not formally possible, and I cannot really resist the need to react to some of the discussions that have caused me the really need to react in principle and don't blame me on what I'm going to react in such a, at first sight, general way after this very long and tiring discussion. But the last time we discussed this law in our first reading, I kind of pleaded not to bid on this bill with patriotism, and I mean, I thought we understood that. I believe that despite these differences, despite these differences, the positive side of this law that has sharpened, in some way, and the argumentation but has sharpened our dealings with our obligations in the most elementary vision to the extent that I think and fully respect as a well-intentioned right, and some of the esteemed colleagues who, through our relationship to this law, have determined our respect, even the oaths we have made, or the principles of democratic procedure as such. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm telling everyone, I'm saying, I'm sorry that, one thing. The other thing, I believe, is that the positive side, therefore, is this debate, is the positive side of the minister, whom I have also enjoyed listening to, who is very involved in all this problem and is committed to contributing to the fact that we face the reasons, so on the one hand what democracy is, what is democratic procedure, what is Parliament's task, what is parliamentary democracy, and, on the other hand, the relationship between the executive government and parliamentary power. He's got us in a situation... so he's got me in a situation that I can't resist the need to say what the executive's job is. The task of the executive is to legally solve its problems, to offer us proposals for legal solutions to the problems this society has. This pirate law – as characterised, I am prepared to some extent indeed to agree with such characterization – is an extorted law. It was iznuditi to adopt it in Parliament because it was not proposed by the one who was supposed to propose it. It was to be proposed by the executive authority that is obliged to offer Parliament legal solutions to the problems that this society has. And then there's the problem of this relationship of legality and legitimacy, which I'm really forced to react to. 45 If it didn’t exist, please forgive me for having to discuss this, if there was no legal basis for this law, I would be against it in advance and I was against it in advance, but they convinced me with a 23rd member of the CEFTA Agreement, with this bis, that there was a legal basis for launching a legal initiative of this kind. So let's not question ours, with all due respect, I have no intention of pollemizing, but therefore there is a legal basis. On the other hand, there is a very legitimate requirement, a legitimate requirement to respond to the injustice that seems to our citizens, which seems to be our producers. We are obliged to respect norms, to respect obligations, to respect international contracts and to use all the opportunities these contracts provide to protect our society, our citizens, to protect our production. And in this case, this is therefore an extorted reaction from Parliament, forced to react to something someone else should have done. Of course, the minister said for 16 years it wasn't working and it couldn't be over overnight. But it's obvious... that it couldn't wait any longer. With us, the Council of Ministers, for a reason we know why it's called, why it's not called a government, we also know why they're called governments everywhere in the world, because they want to rule. This is a law that strengthens the relationship between Parliament and the executive government. And I believe that on this side the value of this law as a possible valuable experience that no longer happens to us that Parliament must solve its legal initiatives... which does not solve the executive power and the problems are, among other things, I ask you to respect, here I am now fully subjective, so my sense of injury with what our people are doing, with examples that I heard here in Parliament last time from Mrs. Majkić, when she spoke about the relationship to beer exporters she's been holding for a month and listening to what the butchers have said today when they come out with what they're doing with them. We have no right to allow our people to be harassed under circumstances in which we objectively, and last time I said, we are not equal with Serbia and Croatia, we are not equal. And to that inequality, our starter, so add all these pranks, all these mechanisms of inequality that are further activated. We have a duty to deal with cases like this. If the executive power would react, then obviously all that remains is Parliament's reaction. But I appeal, therefore, to a minister whose engagement in this case is very, very much appreciated that this was actually a reverse order of action and that Parliament was forced to take over the role of an institution that should offer legal solutions to problems that are obviously legitimate and that require legal response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4923	Thank you very much, Professor Neimarlija. Anybody else want a word? Professor Ivanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4924	Dear colleagues, we are indeed in a situation where a good part of the people and those who are against the law and those who are in favor of the law have an argument. The fact is that we have a major deficit, the fact is that our market is important for other countries, but they would react so badly that 46 of these markets don't matter to them. It's very important as soon as they react so quickly. The fact is that our producers do not have such an approach, we are just fighting and in some parts of agricultural production we manage to get to the market of neighbouring countries without talking about EU countries. And I have examples of people who deal and have good export trout, and they can't export it, or they can export it thanks to co-operation, truth and co-operation and with Croatia and Slovenia, so sometimes they get their stamps, because our institutions haven't done it properly yet. So our market is important, these other countries wouldn't get excited if the volume of that trade wasn't that big. This law will not solve this problem. They won't solve it because the only real solution to our agriculture is subsidies. Issuing more money for agriculture. There's no other solution, and whoever thinks the permanent solution is to lift customs is wrong, no. But when you have nothing, then you have to do something. And there hasn't been a lot of attempts to do in the past, not even in recent times. And mostly, the good part of the institutions leaves it to the minister, and the minister can't do it alone. There's no way he can do it himself, especially when the subsidy policy isn't in his place, when control of individual institutions isn't all under him. But we have played in one period of large independent institutions and in this House there are so-called. independent institutions received attention and never responded to anyone. To God, it suits us, and they don't have legal and executive authority, and once, I remember when I was a minister, they tried to put a part of the institution under certain ministries to know who it suits, it was a maltene impact on the independence of individual institutions, and let's ask ourselves what part of these institutions are doing, so on. Independents. We don't know what he's doing. We have no idea what he's doing. And they're like independent, but it's one part of the then international institutions promoted us. But something has to be done, something really has to be done, because at a time like this where we have, is this solution, this will produce a storm, that I, too, who will vote for the law, want to know that I am aware that it will cause a storm. And it's a good storm, not a simple one at all, and I think it'll take us a little bit of a prairie until we find some reasonable, probably, extremely reasonable solution. And one of the reasons I'm going to vote is because I don't want to be – I apologize, there are more Catholics than the Pope – if the three parties that make up the majority will support this law, and I from a party that took more care of the consequences than that party itself, among other things, and I want to say very directly, because obviously this has become the subject of political play, not just battles for people and the position of agriculture, but also good political, political games. And please, _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I will, I mean now. This means, practically, if we are to speak very honestly, within the Council of Ministers we have both a position and an opposition to this issue. And political knowledge should also be given to parties that treat the Council of Ministers, whom they support – do not expect that we others should take more care of it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4926	Thank you very much, Professor Ivanic. Replica Ivo Miro Jović, pa Adem Ibrahimpašić. 47 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4927	: The absolute democratic right to vote by conscience and to assess whether it is better for the country when one law is adopted, not only this one but any other. If there is a respected minister here, and in the context of what I want to replicate to Ambassador Ivanic, I think there are 11 400 EU products that can be freely imported to BiH without customs: Will you support the law that I will propose at the next meeting on the introduction of customs duties on these products?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4928	Professor Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4929	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4930	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić, please. Excuse me, if only Mr Ibrahimpašić can do the replica. I've made an oversight.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4931	I'm thanking you. What Ivanić said I support, I may not have understood one thing well, but entirely except that thing. So all we want from the executive is to provide us with a correct match on the market, correct. She's nowhere near that correct now, and the executive authority, I'm sorry, you came the other day, I don't, I'm going to say that at that meeting you said the same way I'm saying here, there was no difference, with businessmen from either entity. And I liked it terribly, and I know you have limitations, but let me, we have to solve this problem and this is one way, let's say, let's say, let's do this, let's do this, he'll solve this problem. There's going to be a storm that ends in the end by us having a fair match on this market. And... that's why we're doing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4932	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4933	Please, before you put this bill to a vote, let's take a half-hour break. Thank you. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4934	All right, we'll take a break and please... let's take a break for 45 minutes and have lunch. So the break is 45 minutes. At 2.15, we keep working. At 2.15, then we'll agree. [[PAUZA]] Please, we'll continue the work. It's been a little longer, the press is doing their job, and we need to be friendly with their work. We stopped after Mrs. Majkić asked for a break. And as the Rules of Procedure says, Mrs. Majkić will now tell us why she asked for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4936	I'm grateful for your understanding. So... the request for a break was more to me because of trying to find another possibility based on what we've heard in the debate so far on this subject, so I don't think there's any reason for that anymore and that we can vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4937	Thank you very much. So this was an attempt to eventually come up with some solutions, so that we don't get what happens to us eventually. I haven't concluded the debate yet. I ask, fellow MPs from one nation laugh, it would be good for all three peoples to laugh in the House of Nations. Here, now we've got a collective smile. Now we'll move on to a plea. I'm closing the debate. We will move to a statement on the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production within the CEFTA Agreement. Who is “for ” this law? Three, four, the entity majority exists both in one part and in the other, the wing. Who is “against ” this law? Here, I find five votes "against". Does anyone have “abstained ”? And that there are nine votes... "yes" and that there is an entity majority in both the Federation and RS. Despite opposition, therefore five Croatian votes, this law has passed. I'll finish before I get to the next point, and I'll tell this house: I'm sad that this law has passed. If the High Representative does not remove this law from the BiH legal system, following the publication of this law, I will use my powers and submit this law to the Constitutional Court's assessment of constitutionality. ... So it's the only thing I can do as a protest against the adoption of such a law, which is harmful, not only for CEFTA members, not only for neighbouring countries, but for BiH above all, and time will show who's right. 49 We will now move to point 13 because we have absorbed point 12... after point 3. So, warns me, Mrs. Majkić, that's what we should have done, we do, we needed to agree to the College, because we didn't have entity support on two things, one is Mr. Rančić's second amendment to the Border Police Act. We have no consent in the College, so we'll join the vote in the second round. Who is "for" this amendment, amandman II.. gospodin Rančić? That's 10 votes "for" from the Federation. Who is "against" this amendment? The "against" of this amendment is three votes. So there are no two-thirds of the second entity, amandman II.. gospodin Rančić passed because two votes in RS were "abstained". It's one need to vote in the second round. The second need for our statement in the second round is, just a little bit, we'll now enter into the Law on the Border Police with the amendments accepted. Who's "for"? That's 10, 11 and 3, 14, 15. ‘Non’? There isn't. "Retentions"? There isn't. So, with 15 votes "for" we received, we passed the Law on the Border Police. The fact that it's accepted, Jović, is part of the law. So, we've passed the Border Police Act. And now we're going to have a statement in the second round on the draft fiscal register bill. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The border police. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4942	Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4943	Mr. Ljubičić. So, for alignment: Rančić, Jović and Ljubičić. I guess now we've absorbed this agenda to the end. And we'll move on to the second round of voting on the draft fiscal registers bill. We didn't have the entity support, we didn't get consent in the College, and we're joining a statement on the Proposal of the Law on fiscal cash registers. Who is “for ” this law? We're voting on the fiscal register law. That is 10, 11 votes "yes". Who is “against ” this law? The "against" law is more than two-thirds of the RS entity vote, and this law has not passed. Now we move to point 13. That's "Ad." 13. Proposal for a law on public procurement (first reading) The commission has accepted the principles of this proposed law. The House of Representatives passed this law in a second reading, with 33 amendments. I'm opening the debate. So, we're discussing this law on principles, we're not going to discuss details. Yes, I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4945	As you can see, the Commission unanimously accepted the principles of this law. But I really want this now as a member of this committee, beyond this attitude and opinion, I want to say a few things that are related to the very principles of the law. So we've seriously analyzed this law since we know how many years it took us to work under one bad law, how many 51 problems there were on it, how many conclusions this home had made to fix this law as soon as possible. I want, given the complexity of this matter, I want a few observations only on this subject. My first remark – so, although I say I will vote on the principles of the law – the first observation is that the new text of the law remains unclear, as inaccurate as the existing law. Some members and sentences are so long and unrelated, e.g. Article 9(1), I counted, I wasn't bored, so I counted 60 words. It also defines the purchase of financial services for the purchase of real estate – subject to the application of this law. It's not, we don't know, actually, that there's a dilemma about whether it means that we should carry out the procurement process... getting credit from a commercial bank, and the World Bank or some other international organisation doesn't need it. Another thing that seems to be significant to us is that it has been dropped and is tied to concession contracts and public and private partnership contracts... which should be attached to the law. Therefore, for known reasons, concession agreements which are exempt under the existing law from law and in the text of the new law are also left out. It should also be subject to public and private partnership agreements because it is a form of public and private sector co-operation that is realised by pooling resources, capital and expertise in order to meet public needs. This area in RS is governed by a special law called the Public and Private Partnership Act. The third thing that's so symptomatic is that regular and shortened deadlines are extremely increased, and we think they should have stayed at the same level, at a level like the existing law, it's about Articles 36 and 37. A bill of law. Our view is that the minimum time limits for receiving offers should reflect the real time needed for the bidder to deliver the offer. The period of 28 yes, or 40 days is quite an objective time-limit for the delivery of offers depending on the value of the purchase, since it provides plenty of time for the bidder to submit the offer. The fact that the current law gives the shortest deadlines for receiving offers in relation to the EU is not an essential nature and does not constitute a significant deviation from the Directive, so we need to believe that existing deadlines should be maintained. Pre-informed information intelligence? The deadlines for receiving offers should be reduced for a maximum of 10 days, as this existing procurement solution will have a shorter time limit for receiving offers than purchases of values, for example. 60,000 marks, which was absurd and absolutely taken into account the real time needed to prepare and deliver offers. The third thing I want to point out is, where are the procurement notices being published? So we think that instead of the "Official Messenger", they should be published on the Agency for Public Procurement website. Because we need to wait for the publication in the Official Messenger, we know that we need to wait eight days, and... that act costs us about 500 marks and we know that most of the contractual authorities are against it. And another item that is the last,... so... only in order but not in content, which may be a key item that will define us coming from RS whether we will vote for this law in the second reading. So we've been looking for two amendments that weren't accepted at the House of Representatives, which is crucial to us. Yes, it is a requirement for the law to remain and be meant at the 52nd level of BiH, and that institutions for law enforcement, so the Public Procurement Agency and the Office for the Review of Appeals, should be in the jurisdiction of the entities, so institutions that are in Articles 78 and 79. A bill of law. What's the explanation for that? The main reason why we are looking for the establishment of the Public Procurement Agency and the Office to discuss complaints at the entity level is to ensure consistent implementation of the constitutional and legal competences of entities in the field of regulation of relations and security of the financial sovereignty of entities. It is totally unacceptable for the RS to have BiH-level authorities as states decide on how the entity's financial resources are spent, so entity administrations, administrative organisations, public enterprises and other entities referred to in Article 3 of this law, including their rights and obligations in this area, including monetary and other sanctions in respect of the application of the law, and that responsibility for the overall situation in these bodies and organisations in accordance with the RS Constitution and other positive RS regulations is borne by the RS entity. So these two amendments will be crucial. So at this point, we will accept the principles of this law, but we will act in amendment and, if these two amendments were not accepted, we could not support the second reading of the Public Procurement Bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4946	Thank you very much. Okay, we've already had a little discussion about the details. This is the first reading of principles. And when it's an amendment phase, we'll see what anyone suggests and what anyone accepts. Who wants another word? Mrs. Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4947	Oh, I can't believe I'm not reacting to what Mrs. Dušanka Majkić said, because... it's too serious. We have a situation where we have a law on public procurement that has suffered a series of changes, and it has been passed at the state level. As the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, Mrs Majkić repeatedly reiterated in this parliament that the law is not good, that it should not be amended but that a new law should be passed. Here is a new law that is in line with EU recommendations, a new law that BiH needs to bring forward, to perfect public procurement procedures and to bring them in line with the procedures that exist in EU countries. It means that this process will be as transparent as possible and in accordance with the law. And now she's taking us back. So, the Public Procurement Agency that exists at the state level and the Board of Appeals that exist not at the state level: unless they are placed at entity level, they will not accept that law. Believe me, I think this is a sizif job, all this stuff that's been done. ... I don't know how we're gonna get out of this, because I don't know how we're gonna take a step back, not a step back, but it's hundreds of steps back.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4948	Thank you very much. Please, we're discussing the principle. Does anyone else need to take a word in the first reading? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. 53 But I place the proposal for a law on public procurement in the first reading. Who is "for" the bill, like this in the first reading? I find that we unanimously accepted it in our first reading. I expect that's the way it's gonna be in the other one. Moving to point 14. Ad. 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Competition Act (first reading) You've reached the report. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law and proposed one conclusion. I give my word to Mrs. Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4950	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4951	You didn't follow me, I suggested, I told her there was one conclusion. We'll get to the bottom of this law in the first reading, then we'll get to the bottom of it. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the competition bill, in the first reading. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? There's no one here. We all unanimously passed this law in our first reading. The proposal for a conclusion is as follows: 'Because the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly has not yet completed the procedure for the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Competition Act, the amendment phase for this bill shall be extended until 48 hours before the meeting of the Committee to be discussed.' I would also like to make a statement about the proposal for this conclusion. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted it with 14 votes, because one colleague is gone, a proposal and this conclusion. Moving to point 15. 54 Ad. 15. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Ministry Act and other bodies (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You've received a report from the Constitutional Commission. The commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives adopted this law in the first reading. I'm opening the debate. Who's asking for a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motions of this law in the first reading. Who's "for"? ‘Non’? "Contained"? I find that we unanimously accepted the proposal of this law in the first reading. Point 16 is: Ad. 16. Proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. Dayton Peace Agreement – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4954	First, I would like to start by saying that the House of Representatives adopted this revised strategy because there were not enough votes "against" from the RS. I would also like to inform this home that representatives of the Serb people are dissatisfied with this document offered by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and we are interpreting it as the already seen attempt by Bosniak political parties to resolve the issue exclusively of Bosniak refugees. We find that this is a rare example of narrow, national tightness. So... this strategy is right after it was published, we know that a lot of stairs have passed, it's returned to the Council of Ministers, it's returned to the House of Representatives and, behold, it's somehow dragged into the House of Peoples and I don't know a lot of people, if I know anyone... who believed 55 that it could fix or do something. So a large number of associations of refugees and displaced persons have had objections to this strategy. The first point is that this revised strategy favours only the return and the other two equal solutions that exist in Annex VII. (that is compensation or replacement and fair compensation) are placed on the margin, almost, appearing in the indications. So, this revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. It's only systematically talking about coming back, and it's about fair compensation and compensation shyly and timidly, more about trying to confuse the reader with saying, here, and it's put in, but there's really nothing. Therefore, it was the obligation of the creators of this strategy to provide two other solutions to the processing, thus allowing those who wish to replace their assets or to receive the appropriate compensation for their assets to do so. And what happened? We are witnessing that many legalized replacements have been annulled and many families have run out of anything. One of them got two houses, and the other one had nothing. That is why it is an explicit requirement for these people to legally allow for replacements and so far for replacements to be legalised. Third possibility of solving the problem of refugees and displaced persons in accordance with aneks vii.. The Dayton Peace Agreement is a fair compensation. She needs to be dealt with legally and processed as well as returned. Such a solution through fair compensation is the interest of all citizens of this country. A large number of people have started life in new environments, and they need to be helped to continue living there. The solution to this problem would be overcome by the formation of an asset fund for the just compensation of a destroyed asset. That, for example, would be a solution in the RS for 80,000 Serb refugees who came from the Federation's space. Representatives of the Association of Serb Refugees from Croatia complain that the government almost does not think of them and I quote one of the presidents of these associations who says: "I responsibly claim that the refugees of Srbin from Croatia are the most enraged category of people among all refugees and displaced, because they are being discriminated against in both Croatia and BiH." Private property in Croatia is difficult to reach, and housing rights are not available, and this violates aneks vii.. The Dayton Peace Agreement, which says it is the property law in Croatia for some 60,000 Serbian apartments that remained there, and in BiH around 97% returned it. I remind you of what Valter Kalin, UN Secretary-General for Refugees said after the end of last year's visit to BiH, which said BiH must deal with and implement both return and stay equally as a permanent solution for the country. In the end, I want to offer the House three conclusions. The first is: 'To propose a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Accords bring back the promoter to do so and include what he missed, which he had the opportunity to write in these return procedures – back to the Ministry." Two: 'To cover, in addition to the right to return, the right to settle residential issues of displaced persons as well as the right to compensation for resolving the housing issue of a person who cannot or will not return to the pre-war place of residence, and the property has not been replaced or sold and that the job is completed within two months of receiving the conclusion'. 56 and third: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is obliged to prepare within six months the draft law on the Fair Compensation Fund in BiH and the same delivery in the parliamentary procedure." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4955	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4956	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4957	Excuse me, Mr. Šarab, the advantage has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4958	In a discussion on this strategy, the distinguished Mrs. Majkić again resorted to one characterisation of the acts coming to us from the Council of Ministers, which is characteristic for now only for her. Namely, the proposals for documents coming from individual ministries characterises ethnically, given the nationality of the minister at the head of the ministry, which is absolutely unacceptable and has reacted on several occasions to such characterisations of proposals of legal acts and other acts coming from the Ministry of Security. And I really don't know that any of the other delegates have ever resorted to such characterisation of the documents coming from the Council of Ministers as Mrs. Majkić does now again, because at the head of the Ministry in this case Bošnjak, therefore, the material is immediately afraid and characterized by ethnicity and automatically making some kind of ethnic, rather than political problem,..., stately, let me say, relationship. And I don't think that's really good and that it's not at all good for the character of the debate we're having here and the character of our relationship with the documents we're getting from the Council of Ministers. It doesn't simply answer to the truth that we don't have the Minister's proposals, but we have acts coming from the Council of Ministers. We know where that would take us. On the one hand, if it were to become a manners, if others would accept that kind of relationship to documents, which doesn't simply correspond to reality as such... Still, my replica is another point of view about the fact that there is an irregularly treated return and compensation here, in fact, the insurance of return and material compensation or compensation. The question, as Mrs. Majkić described in the text of this strategy, is not too shy, however. The issue of compensation is not shy but very clear and transparently presented and this possibility of relations with and solving the problem of displaced and refugees, but Mrs. Majkić presented, I think, one thing that is objectively not standing and I believe that Mrs. Majkić had no intention of insulting us, but I think that as readers of this document and as a Dayton Agreement – well, according to the Dayton Agreement, it is not an equal return and material compensation, and here in this strategy, this clearly distinguishes. And so, I mean, it's not right for us as colleagues to be delegates if we're actually asked not to trust our own eyes, not to trust our knowledge, our elemental knowledge, let's say, the Dayton Peace Agreement and its contents. So they're not even. And, we need to talk, we need to consider this strategy, given the proposed measures, the proposed actions, the actions, everything that needs to be done 57 about the return and the resolution, is whether or not, this compensation issue, but the return is an obligation, and the compensation is, we also see from the interpretation of OHR, is known to be treated – as the default option that needs to be realised as soon as conditions are obtained. Therefore, I express my dissent and expect Mrs. Majkić to appreciate my dissatisfaction with her ethnic characteristics of the acts that come to us from the Council of Ministers, on the one hand, while, on the other hand, she takes care that we are obliged to know these things, that we are able to distinguish them, brother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4959	Thank you very much, Professor Neimarlija. Replica, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4960	Dear Mr. Neimarlija, I would like to remind you that we are in the House of the Peoples and that we are all here to protect the people, the interests of the people from whom we come. I assume you understand that. Another reason, so it's my duty to see different solutions come from the people I come from. Don't make me ask you before I come out here, whether it fits or doesn't suit my people. So, I say that in consultation with people and in conversations, it means in regular communication with people, I say it does not correspond to the interests of the Serbian people. And don't make me say anything else. So, I'm here to protect the interests of the people I come from, and I'm going to do it very warmly as long as I'm here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4961	Thank you very much. Replica on the line, Professor Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4962	...has questioned the right and obligation of Mrs. Majkić to protect, to represent and protect the interests of the Serb people, I don't think I have a single word. I'd like him to talk me out of it if I did and if it can be proven to me. However, if necessary, here we all heard, I do not have to prove that Mrs. Majkić started in her discussion with the conclusion that this strategy corresponds only to Bosniak returnees, not with the claim whether or not she is responding, in fact with the claim that she is not responding, let's say, to Serb returnees, refugees or displaced persons, but to respond exclusively to Bosniak ones. And over that she characterised the document as a document of Bosniak character. So I didn't question the right, on the contrary, and the obligation. However, Mrs. Majkić did not talk about how this strategy endangered the rights of Srbin, Serb returnees, displaced and refugees, but how this strategy was designed to, I guess, only settle for Bosniak refugees. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4963	Thank you very much, Professor Neimarlija. Replica, Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4964	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I just wanted Neimarlija draw attention to a few facts that are irrefutable. As is known, he is a member of the Constitutional Commission, in which I, too, has had one conclusion since the first day of the constitution of the commission, and we at one of the first sessions of the Commission mentioned, the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples, regarding this particular part of the just compensation for destroyed property during the war in BiH. And that conclusion is key, in my opinion, which Mrs. Majkić suggested in addition to this revised strategy. I think that... in the procedures that we have been in the proceedings that we have held at the meetings of the Constitutional Commission, we have repeatedly sought and received certain notices, both from the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, and from some other institutions in BiH, and I think that this proposal is in the light of the conclusion given by Mrs. Majkić is quite justified. kolega Neimarlija, you have been to the meetings of the Constitutional Commission and we have indeed made countless points on this matter, and I do not think you have any reason to dispute such a single conclusion, because I think that he would be the one to resolve many of the issues mentioned here when it comes to this strategy and which, in this previous procedure on the Commission for Human Rights and in the process before the ministry proposed by this strategy, have been simply ignored. So one of the key questions that matters is that this strategy is complete: it means not only the right to return but also the right to remain, or the right to just compensation in the war of destroyed property. These are three important and crucial moments that this strategy simply must contain in order to be acceptable. That's it, I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4965	Thank you. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4966	Please, we discussed this strategy on two occasions before the Human Rights Commission. I can say that this strategy is consistent with aneks vii.. which refers to refugees and displaced persons. And here in this strategy on page 25. The ministry has been determined on the issue of damages and compensation. However, here it has also been tried on the Commission for Human Rights to place certain persons in the same level as refugees and displaced persons. Annex VII. says refugees and displaced persons have the right to return to their places of pre-war life and that the parties are obliged to enable them to reintegration in harmony. It means it allows them conditions for a normal life. Likewise, those who have escaped and displaced and who cannot return to places of war have the right to a just compensation. 59 However, MPs from the RS and delegates from the RS have also tried to put on the same level those who wish to return to the place of pre-war life and who cannot for objective reasons and those who have freely chosen to live in the area in which they are now located and have not lived since 1991 and 1992 respectively, and that one fund should be set up to help all of them equally means those who wish to return. Annex VII. support the return, and means supporting those persons in their desire to return and enable them to live in pre-war places of residence. And, so, to those who cannot return the property, to finance themselves from that fund, adequate compensation is given, as well as those who have freely chosen to live in Banja Luka, and they will not return to Sarajevo or, I don't know, where they went from, and that they should be allowed there to build a house in Banja Luka from those same funds, which Aneks vii.. He didn't put such a person in the same plane. The Dayton Peace Agreement guarantees a free choice of residence, i.e. residence. Everyone has the right to live wherever they want, but someone who chooses to live in one place and has the opportunity to return to the prewar place of life and who is returned to the property or who can be compensated for the property as one who cannot return to his place of pre-war life. And that's the problem with this strategy. I think the Ministry fully respected aneks vii.. and the Dayton Peace Agreement and all international documents relating to refugee status and displaced persons, and what someone now wants to push through a third category, which cannot be supported by budget funds, is another thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4967	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. Who wants another word? Replica, Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4968	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4969	Discuss, I apologize. Here you go, Mr. Šarab. You've been waiting a long time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4970	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I presented my relationship with this document this morning through a delegate question which clearly shows that there is a number of persons who are not partially satisfied with this strategy for one basic reason why it does not treat equally the rights to be treated, i.e. that it has not processed in a quality way and the right to remain which, however, needs to be more quality and better processed by this document than has been done. This is an extensive document from which we can learn some important information. So, the fact is that in BiH, 99% of the total assets were returned, and that is very important. This is the information that gives us the full right to highlight it in our conversation with representatives of the international community and with anyone else who talks about the refugees and the resolution of the seized property. So this is one piece of information that deserves attention, as well as the fact that there are 60 41,000 families in BiH that are in the status of displaced persons, and for me the most important information in this document: which is that 3,000 people in BiH live in collective centres. And that's a very devastating fact that 13 or 14 years after the Dayton Peace Agreement, we have people living in extremely difficult and complex conditions. And, in part, I believe that the lack of this document is that it has not been clear and precisely defined by the deadline until collective centres in BiH have to be dissolved. I think this should be the obligation of all, priority obligations and the Ministry of Refugees and displaced persons of BiH and entity ministries and competent local communities that are in a position and opportunity to act to dissipate collective centres because people living in these collective centres really deserve better and more humane living conditions than those in which they currently live. So in BiH, there are also persons who cannot return to their homes for objective reasons, because their property is either completely destroyed, or because they lack basic infrastructure, or because there is an inability to exercise their basic rights in social and health insurance and social security and health care, and that is why special attention should be paid to these people. And I think that this document should go in the direction of complementing the part that concerns the very people who want to stay, and that it clearly and precisely defines a deadline in which collective centres and people who, once again, live in them can be far better and more humane conditions of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4971	Thank you very much, Mr. Šarab. Mr. Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4972	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, members of the Council of Ministers, other distinguished guests, I will begin my discussion with one sentence which I have little, here, prescribed from this strategy, on page 14, subtitled 'The Need for Local Integration', part of the sentence: 'From the total number of displaced persons, one quarter has explicitly declared that they do not wish to return to their previous residence. The largest number... of the displaced who have declared themselves in this way are in the RS and before, here is my part of the comment, the unfortunate conflicts lived on the premises of the current Federation of BiH. Such is, this is the data in this strategy, 7,300 families or a total of about 23,000 people. I'm sure they all have their reasons for not wanting to go back to the previous place of life. Some of these reasons are certainly familiar to me, but I don't want to talk about these reasons at all today, but I'm going to say something else. So because I don't want to talk about these reasons, I'll say something else. Personally, I think it should be well pictured and asked why this attitude is present in this number of people and after 14 years of the end of the BiH conflict. Someone should ask a good and fat question about it. Taking into account the reasons why these people have opted for a second place of life, taking into account the Dayton Peace Agreement, Aneks vii., which we have talked about here today, and we have talked a lot about it and this committee that we mention, means the Commission for Human Rights, taking into account other international conventions that define and protect human 61 rights, then I think that this strategy should treat both categories of displaced persons in terms of resolving their problems as well as respect for their right to choose places of life, 23,000 people who do not want to return to their place of residence, means I mention that again. However, if we take another piece of information from this strategy, we can add 3,000 more people who probably live in the Federation who have also pleaded in the same way that they do not want to return to their previous place of life. That means somewhere around 26,000 people like that, it's not a small number. And I am now giving my own... personal assessment of this strategy, partly speaking it on the Commission; personally I think that in this strategy this category of persons is shyly mentioned, it is also my personal one opinion. My assessment, even this I recognized, for example. In this strategy, my own personal assessment again, I recognized the personal attitudes of individuals in the working group who were working on this strategy, who initially prejudged... some things, some solutions, thereby automatically denying other issues and problems of displaced persons. My assessment is, when I said this and in this strategy this category is also very shyly mentioned, that somewhere in this strategy 95% of the strategy refers to the category of returnees, while the rest means somewhere 5% to the category of persons who have pleaded otherwise. I don't mind coming back, it's the right of those displaced and unhappy people, but I don't mind and respect the same rights and other categories of the same displaced and unhappy persons who have declared themselves second place of life. I support efforts at all levels to enable, provide and help bring everyone back to theirs who has so declared themselves. I ask and expect the same, at all levels that work and assist in the return process, to supplement this strategy as soon as possible with all necessary and what is missing to help solve the problem of the category of displaced persons who do not want to return to the original place of life, to provide for and provide fair compensation or compensation for their destroyed assets, which the Dayton Peace Agreement and aneks vii.. I'm sure he's predicting. I'm just going to comment on one more, so, and with that I'm going to end up with, it's not enough to return the property to a man so he can go back to his previous place of life. In addition, I think it is necessary to provide and create a lot of other solutions for that man to return. So, in a certain way, I only complement the previous part of my discussion, that it should be well imagined why this number of people in BiH does not want to return to its original place of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4973	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubičić. Who wants to move on? Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4974	: I would like to say very briefly that this is an extremely layered and difficult problem and it is the right skill to find measure and satisfy everything. But when it comes to these problems, which we're going into and we're dealing with, I can't help but talk about which, since there was a talk here just now that we need to talk about the people we're coming from. 62 I think there is not a single man in this hall that does not know that in BiH more than 300,000 Hrvat are missing and that under the horrors of war they are driven away. When you look at this sad data of 7,400 all registered as displaced persons, it assumes the sadness. And in particular, the biggest sadness is when you go from Doboj to Brod or some other spaces, from Ostrosac for example to Fojnica, 40 km nowhere, and five parishes, and to remind you, under a thousand people can't be parishes. The only thing I can say is that this is also one of the elements of the future and co-existence and preservation of BiH as a community of three peoples and all those attributes it carries to itself as a multi-ethnic and multi-curtulological, etc. That's why it's very important to keep in mind that the man had at the beginning of the war his house. That this house has been destroyed by the war and the minimum conditions of this country must create for a man to restore that house or facility only to live for these people. That we don't get a wasteland, and even less not to be more than a monoethical country. So I would suggest that it must be installed in such a strategy that for every family that has not sold but has not returned, and had a house, it must be built necessarily, so whether it is returned or not, his child will return. So that's the key thing. Renovate a minimum house for a family home that has the right to that house, which has been destroyed by war. Not economic facilities, not industrial facilities, if people had private facilities, but to show good faith that even in those areas where the Cup grows today, a red roof appears and not to be a picture of us that a nation is not welcome in this country. And one more thing, I would remind you, not so long ago or two years ago or as long as there were elections, remember 8,045 people couldn't vote, so the institutions also advocated that the one whose great-grandfathers were born here had lost his right to vote. And you know why? What he found was the possibility of sending a child to school in his own language, which could go to a doctor and be treated and received modest social protection. If he lost it, he had to hand over one I.D., and no birth certificates were brought into the municipality for 14 years. So I would pray, and I would like to suggest: we restore every house and let a man choose whether he will return or not to live, but at least he will serve to be on his grandfather's side.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4975	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Just that you've suggested resources for the idea. Good idea. Who wants another word? Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4976	I've got a replica on this. I said if he wants to be a country, he has to protect his citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4977	Yeah, then that'll... 63 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4978	If there's gonna be a country without citizens, then you're right, we don't need money.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4979	Unfortunately, there is no political will or money, that is, to be specific. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] What? _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4982	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4983	I respect the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4984	The Honored House Chairman, distinguished delegates, therefore, is about a proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement, not about all the issues that have been touched here and coming out of this framework. It is my duty not to lose this basic thread, to say a few words about this strategy. In fact, so far the current BiH Strategy for the Implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement, which was made at the end of 2002, is the first joint framework document at BiH level, defining objectives and planning needs, i.e. the necessary actions and reforms towards the final implementation of Annex VII's provisions. A general framework agreement for peace in BiH. The speciality, therefore, gives this document the fact that this strategy has been adopted both by the resilient, state, entity institutions and by the structures of the international community in BiH, especially the Peace Implementation Council in BiH. A set of objectives has been identified by the strategy. First of all, the completion of the BiH refugee return process and displaced persons in BiH. Second, realising the return of property and rent rights. Third, completion of the reconstruction process of housing units for return purposes. Fourthly, ensuring the conditions for sustainable return and the reintegration process in BiH. 64 There is no doubt that exceptional results have been achieved in the realisation of certain strategic objectives, and this has been followed by the establishment and arrangement of a transparent system that has become a guarantee of equality between all refugees, displaced persons and returnees in accessing assistance related to return. In the last 14 years since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, almost all occupied assets have been returned to its pre-war owners. Thousands of destroyed houses have been restored, or more precisely to say, of the 450,000 destroyed houses and homes have been restored 320,000, which is what you have in this strategy, right? Minority representation in the public sector has been increased; freedom of movement is enjoyed today by virtually all persons, and returnees' safety has been significantly improved. Despite these successes, however, much remains to be done to ensure that all BiH people fully enjoy a smooth approach to all the rights defined in aneks vii.. Just to point out that we still officially have the last registration, which you have in that document indicated, from 2005, 47,000 families by name and a last name with the address reported wanting to return to their homes or 153,000 persons; that there are, as mentioned here, collective centres of several thousand people; that several thousand families still lack electricity, no electricity; that the sustainability of return from employment, health care, etc. is not ensured, which raises the whole process. These are the reasons why it is necessary to review and strengthen efforts to implement Annex VII. and with this goal, the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the UNHCR in close contact with other key actors initiated a revision of the BiH Strategy for the Implementation of Annex VII. Dayton Peace Agreement, i.e. This document we're discussing. The activity on the development of this revised strategy began in October 2007 by adopting the Action Plan for the revision, which envisions the formation of 10... working subgroups to carry out activities on the analysis and proposal of strategic reform and objectives in the following areas: 1. Reconstruction of housing units and refugees of displaced persons and returnees, closure of collective centres and resolution of alternative accommodation of displaced persons and returnees and social housing, with special emphasis on the problems of displaced persons and refugees and housing... category of returnees. 2. Completion of the process of return of property and residential rights of refugees, displaced persons and returnees. 3. Electrification of return settlements and individual housing units of returnees. 4. Reconstruction of infrastructure in places of interest for refugee return, displaced persons and returnees. 5. Health care of displaced persons and returnees. Six. Social protection of displaced persons and returnees. Seven. The exercise of the right to the education of displaced persons and returnees. 65 8. The right to work and hire displaced persons and returnees. Nine. Security of displaced persons and returnees and demining the area of return. Ten. Right to the damages of displaced persons, refugees and returnees. In addition to the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees as a carrier of activities in working subgroups, about 150 representatives from more than 50 institutions and organisations of local authorities, the international community, the NGO sector and representatives of civil society participated. So all levels of government from municipalities across cantons, entities, Brcko District, etc., here not to reproduce. Therefore, all the consultative, planned phases and activities envisaged by the Audit Action Plan were successfully implemented and completed by drawing up a draft document which was sent to the Council of Ministers for adoption after the public debates were published. The Council of Ministers held its 74th session, held on 29. 1. In 2009, it discussed and established the proposal for a revised strategy, and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives held at the 53rd session, held on 13. 5. In 2009, which gave rise to conditions for considering this strategy in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. At the same time, the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is in charge – and I think it is a solution to these dilemmas and these possible ones, so to say, the remarks – that within three months of the date of adoption of this document, it is also the conclusion of the Council of Ministers and Parliament of the House of Representatives, so that within three months of the date of adoption of this document the Action Plan 2009-2014. for access to the rights referred to in Annex VII, including rights relating to the selection of residences, property compensation which cannot be recovered and other rights. So, through the Action Plan, this potential imbalance, in a certain way, is in line with aneks vii.. And you can't get out of the box. And finally, to say that by adopting this document at the House of Peoples, there would be conditions for the preparation of the whole Annex VII implementation programme. The Dayton Agreement and also the basis for the provision of credit funds for these purposes, in line with the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which reached a conclusion on the required 400m-mark loan. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4985	Thank you very much. So, we've heard, a lot of it has been repeated that we already have in this revised strategy, which is the Council of Ministers' conclusions, which are the conclusions of the Committee of Human Rights and so on, but here's the thing that's not to be heard again. Mr Ibrahimpašić. Here you go. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4986	Thank you, President. I only trace what Ivo Miro Jović has suggested. So, I'm reading this conclusion that Mrs. Majkić made, which says "that persons who can't or don't want to go back to the pre-war place of residence, and they haven't replaced or sold the property." So, people who have property somewhere, and they don't live here, but are in Germany, in Banja Luka, it doesn't matter. Even those who say they'll come back, give us a house, and we'll come back, we don't know if he'll stay or sell that house. So I did absolutely for all these houses to be built, so whoever wants to sell it so they can stay in Germany, in Banja Luka, the buyrum; if they don't, they'll come back and they'll fit into their home. It's the only way they'd be in the same basket. Anything else would be cheerleading or guessing. Someone's gonna get the money, they're not even gonna look at what they've got, and somebody's gonna come in there and they're gonna help, so they're gonna fix it. So it's just that we treat them, here's the house you had, we'll fix it, right, and then you do whatever you want with it, or come back or sell it. There's no way to compensate people. It's just a strong source of corruption. And there won't be anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4987	Thank you very much, Mr Ibrahimpašić. Who wants another word? I'm closing the debate. So, we'll get to the bottom of this revised strategy, we'll get to the bottom of this conclusion by the Commission, we'll get to the bottom of Mrs. Majkić's proposals. I would like to put forward a statement on the proposal for a revised BiH strategy.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4988	Now Mladen will come.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4989	Somebody from the service call, Mrs. Majkić. They've got people doing that job, they'll call him. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Maybe he's gone. So, we'll approach the plea now. _________(?) 67 [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4992	There's no consistency.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4993	There isn't. We'll do it again in the second round. Who is "for" this revised strategy? I find that "for" this revised strategy is nine votes. Who is “against ” these revised strategies? The "against" therefore needed Mladen, so this revised strategy fell, and "abstained" was one. So we have two-thirds of the votes "against" of this revised strategy. If this is a revised strategy, it is essential to consider and vote on the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4994	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4995	Wait a minute, I'll tell you now. So, it fell and this report of the relevant committee and there is no... it was no matter if the proposal for a revised BiH strategy returned to the supplier. This strategy has fallen. You've knocked down a strategy that's... So does anyone think differently from my conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4996	I do my... definitely conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4997	Well, the conclusions are groundless if this strategy that applies to... 68
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4998	Can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u4999	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5000	I guess it's pretty clear that she fell the way she is and that's why this conclusion is one. 'that the proposal for revised stragegia for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Accords is back in business. That means, she did fall, let her work on everything we've been looking for. Conclusion 2 is in the same direction: 'To be completed in addition to the right to return', these are the new parts, 'to cover the right to settle the issues of displaced persons who have the right to compensation for the settlement of the housing issue of a person who cannot or will not return to the pre-war place of residence, and they have not replaced or sold the property within two months to do so'. And the third is "to the Council of Ministers, within six months, prepare the proposal for a fund law". We all said BiH would raise a 400m loan and resolve the issue of refugees and displaced persons, and no one mentioned it anymore. The issue is said to "in charge of the Council of Ministers to solve the problem". And who would be against it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5001	Thank you very much. So, I once again invite all the lawyers in this house. You have two in your club, I log in the right way, we have the relevant committee this report says that 'the Joint Commission proposes to the House to adopt the proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement, with this consensual conclusion.' If this revised strategy has fallen, then this report of the relevant committee has fallen, please nice, and let your lawyers convince me or if someone else thinks to open up a debate about this conclusion that it's funny to discuss the proposal of conclusions after it has fallen
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5002	Let's make a point first to change this conclusion in terms of...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5003	But don't teach me, it's my profession, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5004	Well, I know, but it doesn't have to be all the lawyers in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5005	Wait a minute, please. Did we bring down, bring down the revised BiH strategy in the House of Proposal? 69 Will we now discuss the conclusions regarding this strategy that we do not have, please? I'm going to the next item on the agenda. This is point 17. Ad. 17. A strategy to prevent and combat domestic violence in BiH for the period 2009 to 2011 You have received the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. The Joint Commission proposes to the House that this strategy be adopted with a conclusion. Here, the same thing, we come into exactly the same situation. The House of Representatives adopted this strategy. I'm opening the debate. I'm opening a debate. I'm asking you if you need to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. I am putting forward a statement on the proposal for a strategy to prevent and combat violence in the BiH family for the period 2009-2011. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted this strategy. This strategy now has one conclusion. Who, therefore, with that content in the opinion of the Joint Committee, is "for" the proposal of this conclusion? Please make a statement. Who is "for" the joint committee's proposal to follow this strategy? I agree that we unanimously accepted the proposal for a conclusion. We're going to point 18, that's "Ad." 18. Action plan to meet European Commission recommendations on Roadmap for visa liberalisation for BiH citizens
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5008	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5009	I mean, if you're gonna knock it down, but I wouldn't put it off. So we simply receive knowledge of material. If that's the reason, then we don't discuss it, we wouldn't do it. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Wait a minute, let me ask you if you're gonna run the session or me. I'm opening a debate on this plan of activity you've received. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5011	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5012	Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5013	Thank you very much. I am on behalf of our commission in charge of being a reporter on this. ... All this here is understandable and written right and I call on my distinguished colleagues to accept that it is expressed through this opinion of our committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5014	It seems more logical and proper to me. I'm not closing the debate, I'm asking if anyone's still here, if there's anyone else to say anything. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we take note of this plan of activity that we have received. Who is “for ” such a proposal? Here, I realize we've come to the knowledge of this plan of activity. We have already dealt with him. There's something here that's a little bit of an old-fashioned thing, and now to put it off even further, I think that would be really unsavory on our part.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5015	I'd just like something if I could? 71
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5016	We've finished this agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5017	It's not too late, it wouldn't be too late.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5018	We're done with this agenda, please. Sorry, you called me late. We've concluded, voted, and we're moving on. Point 19 is Ad. 19. Report on law enforcement in the jurisdiction of... Central Election Commission The House of Representatives has accepted this report. We have here Dr Arnautović who has been watching our debate closely and is patiently awaiting his turn. If you need anything from this report, if you appreciate that you should hear before Dr Arnautović, please. šaraba, here you go. You've got the advantage, you've raised your hand, you're looking for a word. Here, you've got the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5020	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I would like to comment briefly on this report in one part of it and suggest one conclusion. So, my comment concerns one part of the responsibility of the Central Election Commission, which refers to the implementation of the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of BiH, and I want to express my personal opinion that the existing Law on Conflict of Interest is extremely bad, and in this direction I fully support the work of the Interresor Working Group which, behold, has been working for a longer period of time on the draft of this law. It seems to me that they are near the end and that they should soon come to Parliament with their draft law, and in this direction I would like to propose my conclusion, and it concerns one of the powers of the Central Election Commission and it concerns the imposition of sanctions against persons by the Central Election Commission. So, in this course of this material, it is evident that last year the Central Election Commission imposed six sanctions on certain persons, and in all sanctions as a measure, it is envisioned that a ban on running for office should be imposed on the next four-year period. And at this point, if it is said now, it is transmitted to the next election cycle, and I am deeply convinced that the measure put forward by the Central Election Commission is completely contrary to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. So, to punish someone now in this 72-cycle, and to transfer that measure to another cycle, I find it unacceptable, and in that direction, I would also like to suggest my conclusion, and it says: 'The House of Peoples is asking its members', so that in this Interresor Working Group we have proposed our members, 'Ask your members in the Interresor Working Group who is working on making a new text of the Law of Conflict of Interest to prohibit running as a measure contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights deletes from the new text of the law.' Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5021	You can only deliver that conclusion. Can that conclusion come to us? Mr. Koprivic, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5022	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, reading this report, which I fully support, on law enforcement in the CEC's jurisdiction, I would draw the House's attention to the conclusions, or recommendations on page 116... of this document, which states from 1 to 6. - six recommendations in order to raise the quality of BiH's work to an even greater level: 'We propose to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that...' (so as not to read these recommendations, I think we must make a special statement about them, since they are taking the appropriate obligations both to Parliament and the Council of Ministers, so in that sense I have answered the word). Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5023	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. Who wants another word? Is there any need to spend Dr. Arnautović? Here, colleagues say no. We have received indeed one consistent report, always pedantic, precise, clear, no dilemmas, no doubt, and if everyone were to give us such reports as the Central Election Commission, we would have this and a brief debate on these reports. I am finalising the debate and putting the report on the implementation of the law in the jurisdiction of the Central Election Commission on a statement. Who is "for" this proposal report? Here, I realize that we unanimously accepted this report. We thank Dr Arnautović, please welcome the Central Election Commission. _________(?) 73 [[no microphone turned on]] Mr. Šaraba's conclusion, I don't have it in front of me, it's not typed. .... Is it typed? It's given to typing. We're going to the next point. By the time the conclusion comes, we'll put him on a plea. Ad. 20. Report on the protection of personal data in BiH and on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5028	So, esteemed colleagues, guests! Family and family life in our country suffers the consequences of these global civilization and economic processes as well as these of our transition and post-traumatic opportunities and difficulties. We all know that very well. This resolution is an invitation to insurance, an incentive to actually improve the protection of family and family life. Don't be too hard on the text. He follows the international documents and recommendations that have been made about this, and I would disagree with some, say, wordings or syntagmas here, let's say, that sociobiological family as a cell of society, but this resolution follows these international similar recommendations and documents aimed at protecting these times of globalisation, accelerated changes in the character of life, in fact, those values of family and family life. And I invite you here to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5029	Thank you, Professor Neimarlija. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want a word? The same resolution on the proposal of a party colleague from the House of Representatives was accepted by the House of Representatives. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a plea. Who is "for" this resolution? I agree that, unanimously, with the required entity majority, we have accepted the motion for a resolution. Moving to point 23. Ad. 23. Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Council of National Minorities of BiH - Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth Immigrants, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics You've received a motion for a decision, we've put this on the agenda for today's session so we won't be late, because on Wednesday and the House of Representatives will also put it on their agenda. 75 So I'm going to say for a little while that I'm not bothering anyone, just to get you into the story. So we need to amend the Decision establishing the Council of National Minorities because it is a proposal from the Joint Commission that a person who will enter the Council of National Minorities and be elected or elected, because we will choose two persons to share the mandate, but this mandate is as long as the mandate of the Parliamentary Assembly. So very simple, very short, and that's all the story. So, we'll do it today because the mandate is running that we're not late, and the House of Representatives will do it on Wednesday. I'm opening the debate. If anyone needs anything else from the Joint Committee, let them say it. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5031	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here, I will make a brief comment on the proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Decision, given that last time I asked for a statement on this matter to be postponed and to try to talk with all associations, and thus end up with a single proposal. Unfortunately, the Commission has failed to come up with a single proposal. It seems to me that they have tried to seek a compromise solution, but I want to first place a sharp grudge on the part of the ambassador of Montenegro who wrote one, in my opinion, quite an ugly letter and who, when setting out and proposing these candidates, explicitly put himself on one side, on the side of one candidate, which I think is very, very ugly and unnecessary on his part, and in this way I want to give him criticism, because he should have been the one who will be one of the headquarters who will gather all associations and develop a common story, and not put on the side of one side and explicitly plead who should be a member and representative of the Montenegrin people in this council. Another point of my mind: if the Commission has already entered into one story and one proposal to carry out the division of the mandate, then it should have done so in a fairer way. It seems to me that this remaining part of the term of office is not divided equally and as it should have been divided, so in two equal parts, and in that direction I have... my personal reserve according to this proposal that was given. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5032	I listened very carefully to you, dear colleague Šaraba, but you were talking about the next item on the agenda. So you won't speak at the next point! This is something else, don't be mad, I have to warn you. I've been following you very closely. Mr. Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5033	Here's what I wanted, Mr. Chairman, to explain. Mr. Šaraba, rightfully speaking of the next point where candidates are proposed, and this is an amendment to 76 Decisions on the formation of a Council of National Minorities. So it's not in the package, it's two different points of the agenda. Here, now that I've taken my word for it, let me just finish my sentence. So, we wanted to propose this amendment from the Commission on Human Rights to simply put in the same position... representatives of the Council, members of the Council of National Minorities and to bind their mandates to our mandates, i.e. the mandates of Members and delegates in Parliament, which we consider to be quite natural and I propose that such a decision be taken.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-18-0.u5034	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? So, I conclude the debate and I put it, it is very simple, so it is added only to the Decision establishing the Council of National Minorities that their mandate follows the mandate of elected members of the Parliamentary Assembly. And that's all that's proposed in this decision. Who is the "for" proposal for such amendments and additions to the Decision? Unanimity. Thank you very much. Now we're going to the point we've already heard Mr. Šaraba's discussion. This is the item of the agenda 24. Ad. 24. Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer: Joint Committee Since I'm a member of that committee, I won't be taking your time right now. I'll tell you very briefly. The only compromise solution that we could come up with: we righted one injustice because we didn't know until you, Mr. Šarab, told us that there was also an Association of Montenegrins in Trebinje and... let it go to the soul what you told us about the Ambassador of Montenegro. But we have found one compromise solution, since the House of Representatives has already appointed one person, we have accepted, and this person, therefore, and another person from this other association from Trebinj, to share the remaining part of the mandate by the end of this term of office of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. That's all the story. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? We've heard one discussion before, I've made some opening remarks. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a statement that these two people share their mandate. The House of Representatives will decide in the same way. I agree that we unanimously accepted these two persons as members of the National Minorities Council in the order of the Montenegrin national minority. 77 Point 25 is Ad. 25. Granting consent
