ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27038	Please take your seats so we can get started. So we have a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 55th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, once again I welcome you, we heard an anthem. I can inform you that the Council of Ministers has agreed on the text of the anthem and that it is going very quickly when we hear the text, of course it is up to us to adopt amendments and amendments to the Law on the Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's session, our regular guests, the media, as well as representatives of the legislator who are the subject of the debate at today's session were invited. Right now in the O.R. (at least that's how it shows me, even though I see there's more, put the cards on, please who didn't put them) we have 25 MPs. I hope we get that number up real soon. The session was justified by Jovan Todorović, Azra Alajbegović and Adem Huskić, with Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija and Denis Bećirović announcing a delay in the session. Did I miss someone about justice? Here is Izetbegović Bakir will be late and Lazar Prodanović will be late. Everyone's late today, obviously they've got important things to do. You're here to get back to work, so you've got something different on the agenda, and that's our practice, compared to the one you got earlier. So this is the result of consultations, of business provisions, and this is the text, that is, the contents of the agenda, which was agreed yesterday at a session of the Expansive College. In short, let me remind you, what you see and from the calls, we have classified the following points of the agenda in relation to what you have previously received as a proposal for the agenda. Therefore, the Council of Ministers' requests for an urgent procedure of four laws that are a condition for visa liberalisation. They are included under points 3, 4, 5 and 6. I don't think there's any need to name them, to name them, you all know them, more or less, by heart. I hope you got them, of course, with an apology. So, we are indeed, the Secretary of the House and the Service... have made every effort since Thursday, when the Council of Ministers' session is over, and until the moment we begin, on Monday, practically, to get laws to provide the laws in your possession and I hope that you all got it. I'm sorry, too, maybe we haven't managed to get all these language variants by the end of 2 because we haven't gotten all of that time, but I don't think that's going to happen and there's no reason why we're not deciding today about the Council of Ministers' request, after all, that was our initiative. Point 22 is included. Confirming the Council of Ministers' decisions on the appointment of Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport and Deputy Defence Minister for Policy and Planning. I'm hoping that this certification committee, for implementation and validation, works and I think we'll get on time, so we can get to the bottom of this. And as the 24th point included the House Declaration on the Proposal... The Joint College of both homes in relation to the conclusion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights where we failed to reach an end, i.e. we failed to reach a consensus on the content of the agreement, i.e. the procedure, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of the House. And we also added another point. So, at the last point, where we have ratifications, we have also included the Agreement of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of border checks at common border crossing points, because that law has passed the Commission, and by name you can see that it is as important as those with Serbia, because it is also in some way fulfilling the conditions for visa liberalisation. On the agenda of what you have received, the Agreement between the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on Co-operation in the fight against crime, etc., for the simple reason that the proposing did not attend the session and the Commission refused in principle to discuss this agreement. This, I hope, is a message for the promoters that they are obliged to attend the sessions. Here, I've delayed a little bit, as they say, I'm opening a debate on the agenda proposal. I have reported Milica Marković, error; Rifet Dolić, error.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27039	It's not a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27040	It can't be. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27041	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House, I propose that we extend the proposed agenda for the 55th session of the House of Representatives to a new point, which would literally read: 'The Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of the visa liberalisation commitments from the Roadmap for citizens of BiH'. Due to the importance of this issue for BiH citizens and, of course, the current moment after the report on the implementation of the visa liberalisation commitment map in Brussels has not been given a positive assessment, I suggest that we put this item on the agenda of today's session and make it mandatory for the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers-in-Office to submit a written or oral report on this issue to the MPs of the House today. 3 I propose this despite the fact that, as the chairman has already said, today's agenda has already been introduced in this process and that some steps have already been taken by putting on the agenda four laws that are on the visa liberalisation list. I remind this home and distinguished colleagues of one of the conclusions that, following the debate in the material, the Plan of activities to meet the European Commission's commitments and recommendations regarding the mapa for visa liberalisation was adopted at the 50th session of the House of Representatives, held two and a half months ago, and said: "It is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit each month to the House of Representatives a report on the implementation of visa liberalisation obligations from the Map of Ways." This report is therefore the obligation of the Council of Ministers and the reason for the spotting of the same is also the fact that the Commission's report on the implementation of the visa liberalisation obligations in the meantime did not receive a positive assessment of Brisel and that BiH was in danger of remaining one of the countries of the region for which citizens will remain in force until further notice. "white Schengen visas" for travel to EU countries. The citizens of BiH received this news as another disappointment that we gave them after the sweets, I would say, the battle parols they listened to from us and those who exercise executive power in this country. What would be normal in any country with a responsible authority in this situation is to expect this issue to be discussed in Parliament and that MPs of Parliament and citizens will receive information on the causes, consequences and, of course, the answers to such a situation. A negative assessment of Brisel's report on the implementation of BiH's visa liberalisation obligations is, I am free to say, a shame and a slap on all of us, although I personally believe that most of my fellow MPs do not feel responsible, because I have not personally contributed to BiH's obligations to visa liberalisation. For this reason, I think it is necessary that MPs of this House from the Council of Ministers get the information in question in order not to inform the issue from the media and to determine this house against those responsible for this disgrace and humiliation of the citizens of BiH. I ask my fellow Members, therefore, despite this extension of the agenda, to support this point in the agenda of this 55th session, regardless of whether or not the Council of Ministers will be entitled to submit this report today, as this will best show how much they care about the citizens of this country and, of course, how responsible they are to their own obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27042	Here, Mr. Dolić, if you'll excuse me, a very brief comment. So first we have business material, and you said it yourself, so you expect us to provide that material during the session, etc. It is true that you said that we have reached such a conclusion, but it is not true that this Parliament is not informed. So also the College and MPs, etc. They're dealing with this problem and we're, you know, sure, thinking about informing the public, so it turns out that you're the only one who's dealing with it, and everyone else has no idea what's going on. 4 So, the result of this work, etc. is what we have today and we will continue to work on it very intensely. So, I have an announcement from the chairman of the Council of Ministers here today when we discuss these demands and it might be an opportunity to get further information, although, I say again, we have distributed everything that has happened, information and everything else, but here, therefore, I fully understand your request. However, technically we today find it difficult to have some serious information. I will, of course, ask the Council of Ministers, if you agree, that for the next session, after what we're going to do today, we should be told what's left even though we know exactly what's left. So there is a Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters, there is a Law against Discrimination, which is all in progress in some way and there are obligations on better intergenic cooperation, education, strengthening border control, etc. and these things are done at regional level and within the country. But here, in any case, I fully understand and support your request, but I'm afraid we're going to have a hard time getting information in the course of the session, so I wanted to ask you to leave it for the next session, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27043	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27044	You can, of course. Not to vote, to make material, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27045	You see, thank you for your comment, I know what you said and you're right. However, and you also said that this is an uncontested commitment by the Council of Ministers and I don't know, 15 days at a time we'll be where we now appear to be, and that's to be...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27046	Mr. Dolić, deliver it to me in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27047	I do. Here's the writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27048	And if you have any material, deliver it and the House will plead. Please just take a technical look at it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27049	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27050	Is there anyone else on the agenda? There isn't. So, I'm concluding a debate on this issue. We should now plead on Mr. Dolić's proposal. Now I ask dom: Do you want to take a break for 10 minutes so that what Mr. Dolić proposes is distributed or will we plead? 5 Mr. Dolić, just so I have the precise formulation of the agenda point once again that the Members hear. Please form the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27051	The BiH Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of the visa liberalisation commitments from the Roadmap for BiH citizens. Literally how it stands in the adopted conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27052	Okay. Please, I ask the House to prepare itself for a vote on the inclusion of a new agenda item. So, the Council of Ministers' report on meeting the requirements for visa liberalisation. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 20 votes "for", nine "against". Enough entity majority. This item of the agenda is included, this proposal is included in the agenda of today's 55th session. Here, Mr. Dolić, of course, we will have a rich and fruitful debate, a great contribution, etc. Let's just please share this with the people and see where we put this. So, do you want to go somewhere with the laws right now, so we're deciding on this request, Mr. Dolić?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27053	Half an hour's break.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27054	You already said what you wanted. If there's any chance, I let you say everything for five minutes. Here, break for half an hour. A half-hour break. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. We've got a quorum, we're going back to work. I'm giving Mr. Kalabić a chance, if he wants to, of course. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27056	Here, Mr. Chairman, I expected that, as in many cases so far,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27057	May I have your attention, please? Take your seats. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27058	from this situation to come up with a formulated proposal, meaning, for the next session, I am alive interested in how today's debate, what material, and how. And when it comes to the proposal itself, we will, through a debate on these four laws, explain precisely who the culprit is that BiH has been waiting two years for the adoption of these laws, that will show precisely who the culprit is. And we've had enough of this story and throwing a ball in the sense that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is guilty of everything in this country, and that people, by name and last name, are sitting here, and who are the culprits of what has been going on for the past year, that no one mentions them for certain reasons. But here, we're going to use that debate to say it precisely, and that's what I expected the others to do, not to open a point that I don't see in any way. I think it is very incorrect for MPs, too, because so far we have always had a different approach when it comes to material for the very point and to the initiatives that come to the session itself. But, well, the result of the vote is what it is. I have a suggestion, Mr. Chairman. Since this commission has completed its work and that we are likely to have a long debate, that these people are not waiting there for the afternoon, but that this point 23 is being transferred right behind point 6, meaning behind these four emergency procedures laws, and that it is the 7th point, and that we make that choice and that they are not waiting.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27059	Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27060	That they don't wait, really, I don't think there's any need if it's all over and everything's ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27061	Please, I'm really not going to let this parliament be used for any further matters now. We've completed the debate and the agenda. Unfortunately, Mr. Kalabić, the agenda debate is over. You just explained the break. And, Mr. Dolić, there's no replica. The man explained the break and we all heard well and I suggest we keep working. And I would like to inform you that this agenda item proposed by Mr Dolić will be the 20th point. So, the first information in a set of information we have today's session. So this is how we end up determining the agenda. For the record, let me say the agenda for today's 55th session. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 54th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on Answers received, (b) New Parliament Questions, 7 3. The BiH Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on international legal aid in matters of urgency, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on border control by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorist activities under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of BiH (second reading); 8. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for the security of BiH (second reading); 9. Proposal for a law on parliamentary military commissioner for BiH, proposed by Šefik Džaferović and Adem Huskić (second reading); 10. Declaration on the Proposal for a Law on Postings of BiH (second reading); 11. Proposal for a law on the use of sign language, MEPs Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković and Niko Lozančić (second reading); 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Deposit Insurance in Banks of BiH (first reading); 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Transport on Roads to BiH, Proposer of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics (first reading); 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Basics of Transport on Roads to BiH, Proposing the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (first reading); 15. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts (second reading); 16. Report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of BiH institutions; 17. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2008, applicant of the BiH Prosecutor's Office; 18. Report on the work (a) of BHRT 2008 (b) of the Management Board of RTVBiH (BHRT) for 2007 and 2008; 19. Report on BHRT's financial operations for 2008, with a review of the corrections of BHRT's financial reports for 2007 and 2008; 20. The BiH Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of the visa liberalisation commitments from the Roadmap for citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 21. Information from the Ombudsman on the situation found in 2008 and the activities undertaken in 2009; 22. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2008; 23. Information from the BiH Ministry of Security on the state of security of journalists in Bosnia and Herzegovina (realisation of the adopted conclusion from the 47th House session, held on 4 March 2009); 24 March 2009 Confirmation of the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to appoint 8a) Mladen Simić as zamjenik ministar of Communications and Transport of BiH, (b) Živko Marjanac za Deputy Minister of odbrana za politika i planiranje of BiH; 25. Appointment of members of the Special Investigation Commission (adopted at the 52nd session of the House, held on 29 April 2009.; 26. Declaration by the House on a proposal from the Joint College of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly to address the College of both homes to the High Representative for BiH in order to give an opinion on the conclusion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics; 27. Giving consent to ratification (a) Agreement on Economic Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, (b) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of border checks at common border crossing points, (c) Annex II. Agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of the project in favour of the judiciary or courts and prosecutors in BiH, d) of the Additional Protocol with the Criminal Convention against Corruption (ETS 191), Strasbourg, 15 May 2003, e) of the European Convention on Foreign Law Notices with the Additional Protocol, f) of the Convention establishing the Customs Cooperation Council, g) of the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of BiH and the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia on the implementation of common patrols along the common state border, h) the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of BiH and the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Interior and the holding of regular meetings of representatives at the state, regional and local level. It's the agenda of today's 55th session and finally we're going to work. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 54th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27065	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I am in session of the 13th. 5. I have asked a parliamentary question concerning the work of this committee in the selection process of the Director of the State Directorate for European Integration and I have received a reply from the Agency for State Service and I am satisfied with the answer, but I am not satisfied with what happened during the work of the Commission, because the answer we have all received is therefore clear and visible that in the assessment of the candidates, i.e. in the assessment of the tasks they have dealt with, there were actually ethnic criteria practically exclusively, and not the criteria of ability and expertise. I don't think this is a good practice and, fortunately, that contest is, that procedure has been annulled, it will return to the beginning, but I want to take advantage of it publicly here, and I hope that someone from the Council of Ministers will take it seriously and will deal with what I'm about to say now, just two sentences. I believe that members of the committees who are evaluating candidates, especially these positions that, let's say, are politically troubled, should be denied the possibility of any subjective approach in the assessment of the solved task and I think that we should consider so-called. Ops check. That is: the offered answers a), b), c), the correct answers, then yes or no, to fill in missing expressions, etc., so that this procedure is made completely objective and that any subjective evaluation of the members of the commission is excluded, because they did not come there to subjectively evaluate anyone, but to objectively assess. And I think the regulation governing this issue of the Council of Ministers should deal with these matters and properly ask them. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27066	A commentary has Hadži Jovan Mitrović on his answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27067	Mr. Chairman, at last session, I asked a question which was concrete and could be answered in a few sentences, and it is said, "When, according to the Constitution of BiH,... a BiH citizen can be declared unfit to be chosen, which is analogous to it, and there is no choice." I don't understand why the Ministry has embarked on such a broad explanation, given the Electoral Law in those segments that don't talk about it. I would understand them if they had taken the Election Law in terms of when a BiH citizen cannot be elected, and that is when no person who is sentenced by the International Court, Article 1.6, 1.7, 1.7a, etc. So they didn't touch what I was concerned with, and I expected a concrete answer. Then I didn't expect the conflict of interest laws to be touched here. Maybe my only explanation is why I'm asking this question has invited them to give this answer. Now when asking questions, I will answer a specific question and I will ask the minister of justice, here, can be answered directly afterwards only yes or no. That's how I'm gonna ask you a question. I don't need it in writing, because obviously something here doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27068	I don't have any more comments. The record works only to establish that the answers to questions to today's session, except for Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Hadži Mitrović, who had a comment, were received by Šemsudin Mehmedović, Halid Genjac, Milica Marković and Željko Kuzmanović. So this is how we concluded the comments. I'm opening a space for new parliamentary issues. Here, I have a report: Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27069	Thank you, Chairman. I have a question for the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, which reads: "When will the Council of Ministers submit an official application for BiH to become a candidate for EU membership and what has the Council of Ministers done to prepare the official application to make it credible and acceptable for the European Council?" Reason: It shall soon be a full year from the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the entry into force and implementation of the Interim Agreement. These are assumptions for applying for candidate status, but extensive preparations need to be made to ensure that the application has as much credibility as possible. Of course, these preparations take a long time and a planned approach. By the way, countries in the region with similar assumptions have already done so. So Albania and Montenegro submitted an application to obtain candidate status, and Serbia is preparing to submit an application immediately after the status of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is unfreezed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27070	Hadji Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27071	Dear Chairman, my question will be brief. Given that the Constitution of each state is the greatest act and all laws that are passed should be in accordance with the Constitution, I ask the question of the short and clear minister of justice: 11 'Do laws, including the Law of Conflict of Interest, be in accordance with the current Constitution, the International Civil and Political Rights Pact and the Election Law of BiH? Yes or no?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27072	Mr. Okolić. Mr. Okolić, did you sign up for the MP's question, now I don't have you on the screen?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27073	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27074	A mistake. Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27075	I thank you, Chairman. I ask a question to the Council of Ministers, which reads: "What activities does the Council of Ministers take on the conclusion of international agreements on BiH's property and legal relations with Serbia and Croatia?" So I expect an answer by the next session. If there's no answer, then I'm going to ask that question and I'm going to ask Dom to discuss it and make it a special item of the agenda at the next session. The second question I ask the BiH Law Department, which reads: "In what cases has the BiH Law Department stood up in lawsuits for the protection of the right to integrity and the legal continuity of the BiH state's property?" And another short question of the BiH Appeals Office: 'Why did the BiH Office of Appeals refuse to appeal to BH Post, noting that the same complaint was later adopted by the Competition Council and concerns the Decision on the provision of reserved postal services by the private postal operator MHS Sarajevo and for the purposes of Sarajevo?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27076	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27077	Mr. Chairman and members of the government, the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to ask the BiH Foreign Ministry a question, means the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the following. Since for a long time there has been an initiative in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that Smail Festić is appointed to the Honorary Consul in the Republic of Slovenia, I ask the question of the Minister and ask for information: 12 'What is the status of the said initiative to be appointed to the Honorary Consul and to provide me with information as to why this process is still and so long?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27078	Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27079	I have two short questions, I'm not going to explain them specifically, I'm just going to read them. 'Is the BiH Council of Ministers in charge of Ministers of Security Tarik Sadović to travel to Lyon and meet with Interpol Secretary General Ronald Noblo and discuss on behalf of BiH the investigation and delivery of warrants in the dobrovoljački case? Who and on the basis of which platform did Minister Sadović represent in Lyon and whose interests he represented and did he meet the chairman of the Council of Ministers, his deputies, Deputy Minister of Security and Interpol Office in BiH about his statements, trips and one-sided lobbying?" And the question addressed directly to the Ministry of Security, I would be pleased if you could get an immediate answer: "Is it legal and, if so, on the basis of which contract or law listening to citizens, officials institutions in BiH by, under quotes, international intelligence organisations, which are organisations and who finance them?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27080	Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27081	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have two parliamentary questions. The first question is either to the BiH Council of Ministers or to the BiH Council of Ministers: 'How much has been achieved and the unsettled commitments of concessionists towards budgets at all levels of government in BiH, in accordance with the Law on concessions in BiH and signed concession agreements? Who are 20 senior debtors based on concessions, counting all levels and how much are their individual debts? What have the competent institutions done to collect these claims?" To ask this question, I was initiated by the unofficial knowledge that BiH concessionaries owe more than a hundred million KM under the laws and signed concession agreements in BiH, that they are due to debtors who are masqueradingly close to some parties and party leaders and that state institutions are doing little or nothing on the mandatory charge of these claims. Of course, I do not think it is necessary to stress the gravity of this issue at the time of the financial crisis and recession when rational behaviour in all segments is the only effective anti-crisis and anti-recession measure and when we are likely to face the fact that the 13 burden of belt tightening will feel the most citizens with social needs and poor people in this country. The second issue is the finance minister at the BiH Council of Ministers. More than a year ago, I asked a parliamentary question that I did not get an answer to today, and with the essentials, that is an additional reason to ask today the same question, which regulations in BiH are regulated in the section of financing and controlling the financing of religious communities? I don't think the essential reasons for asking this question need to be exaggerated. In a situation where funding in all religious communities in BiH is a bit of a mystery, in which more and more scandals and abuses are hidden behind alibis in this regard that it is an intimate issue of faith and believers, religious communities are often beneficiaries of the grant budget and it is a public secret that they are not obliged to account for spent funds, which, of course, is not in line with both religious, secular principles and laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27082	I don't have any more reports. I'm closing point two, so comments and parliamentary questions. Let's go to point 3. Ad. 3. The BiH Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on international legal aid in matters of urgency, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The proposal for this law, as well as these next three, was delivered by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2009, and we forwarded them to you on the same day, with that explanation at the beginning of the session I gave. So it's about the laws that are on the visa liberalisation list. So, at this point, we're having an emergency hearing. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to point 4. Ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on border control by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27085	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27086	Error, no reports. I'm closing the debate on point 4. Let's go to point 5. Ad. 5. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Control of Arms and Military Equipment, also on an urgent procedure With the same explanation I just said. We're opening a debate on this request. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point six. Ad. Six. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorist activities by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27090	Wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27091	Error, closing debate on item 7. We're going to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina Also second reading. We adopted it at the 52nd session in our first reading. The report was delivered on June 8th of this year. The Commission has adopted the draft law, to remind you, with an amendment that has also become an integral part of the proposed law. At the plenary stage, we have no amendments. I'm opening a debate in the second reading of this law. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point 9. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Military Commissioner for Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27098	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And it's not a suggestion as you understand it, it's a suggestion in the sense that future initiatives are directed towards the Ministry of Communications and Transport, which is already at the stage of making changes and supplementing the Transport Safety Act. So, for purely pragmatic reasons, so that I don't have a little bit so now that I have one amendment, etc., that it is united and in the coming period we expect to have more complete additions and changes to that law that are being prepared. In that sense, therefore, it does not refer to these two things that are on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27099	Thank you, Mr. Dokić, you're right, it stands here, there's the word "posable initiatives," so future initiatives. So, is there any need to discuss this law? I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to point 14. Ad. 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Basics of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (First Reading) 18 On 21 May, the House submitted this bill. At the 54th session, we did not adopt this request for an emergency procedure, nor for a shortened one, and this law is being considered in regular procedure. We received our opinion on the constitutional basis on June 4th and the committee was responsible on 9 June, when it comes to principles, the Commission supported the principles of the proposed law. I welcome Mrs Dušanka Majkić, a member of the House of Peoples College, who is here as a proposing and if you like. Obviously you do, you're already up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27101	Dear colleagues, let me begin by saying hello. I don't think there's much to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27102	Please listen to each other, please listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27103	This law is quite clear and it is adopted by emergency procedure at the House of Peoples and proposed and the House of Representatives. Therefore, only Article 126 is complemented, given that the College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly does not use the possibility that SIPA vehicle security is available in the back and front of the vehicle in which the protected person is located and that we have practically performed the reduction and practically the chairman of both homes are driven only in one car, in which the person from the SIPA is located. So, we have, given that the particularly MUP of the RS has recently been subject to the abuse of these possibilities of using sound and light signals on cars, made several warnings that this will no longer be tolerated for anyone who is not covered by the law, in this sense we have suggested that this point 5 be excluded and that only members of the College of the two Houses of Parliamentary Assembly, official vehicles of the Presidency when driving in them members of the Presidency, and official vehicles of the Council of Ministers when driving in them are chaired and vice-presidents of the Council of Ministers who are allowed to use devices for giving special light and sound signals and without the escort of police or military personnel. Here, I mean, this law is simple and there's nothing special about it. If there are any questions, I'm ready to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27104	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. Here, you've heard further explanations. We're going to a discussion. Branko Dokić. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27105	Mr. Chairman, I have a need to say a few sentences on behalf of the Commission who discussed this. In fact, in deciding whether or not we're going to give the green light, and when it comes to principles, there were a lot of members of the Commission who were against it. So it's been literally one more vote. We also had representatives of the Ministry of Communications and Transport who we can consider to be agile and competent for this area and I think that one general message could be summed up in the next. In some ways, it is necessary to appreciate the decision of the chairmans mentioned in the three structures not to use security for their safety when they are transported, as defined by the law, as we have heard from the promoters, with the motivation to make certain savings, and we have welcomed it in the Commission. But, then, there was also a discussion in the sense that what is required is not in the function of protecting them, even asking whether their safety is even more endangered than when they do not have those lights, given the fact that, as a rule, these lights are driven significantly faster, and given our paths as they are, that one vehicle alone with these lights is not a guarantee, even, on the contrary, can be further encouraging to whoever is driving that vehicle and to bring in the chosen person, or person who should be protected to be even more endangered. So that's one reality we need to keep in mind, so do we increase their safety. Basically, we allow them to travel faster, and there is no need to forget one fact that often drivers and abuse such an opportunity even when there are no drivers to drive. The Ministry of Communications and Transport has shown us the fact that this would be a kind of precedent in the sense that such practice applies to special vehicles that have the possibility of special, as it is said, passing championships such as emergency aid, such as some police vehicles and the like. So, here I had a need to pass you a part of the debate on the Commission so that when the vote comes, you can identify who will vote for, who will vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27106	Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27107	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished guests, you see, I don't think this problem can be solved by this law or here, least of all, by this law alone, let's just say that it may be necessary in this law for certain changes, but it certainly can't be solved by this law alone. In fact, simply, the person mentioned here or the largest number of individuals mentioned here is not in a position to decide whether to have an escort or not. And it wasn't an escort that was given to go faster or slower than for their safety, and they weren't responsible for their safety, but some others are responsible for their safety, so they're not in a situation to decide, and we're not in a position to decide this by this law and this way. So, I think if you look on that side then the principles of this law are unacceptable. An explanation that, given the importance of the function, it should be possible to move rapidly in 20 traffic without escorting it makes no sense. I can accept it to be someone else's explanation, here's to find an explanation that due to obligations etc. But, look, because of the importance of function, it really doesn't make sense. And I think if we were here, and on the trail of what the President of the Commission was saying, we had an obligation to be in the vehicle at the same time and the one he drives and the official driver who's in charge of that then this bill would have been withdrawn from the procedure. I mean, I think... that even if he could regulate himself like this, he'd be significantly abused or mostly abused. So I won't support the principles of this law either, because I'm convinced that we are not solving this law in the way that the Proposer thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27108	The speaker, Mr. Belkić, picked up the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27109	So, colleagues and colleagues, a few notes that can help in the discussion. So, when it comes to the participation of the House of Representatives Colleges and this home throughout this procedure, you should know the following. So we didn't accept the role of the promoter, so this is a proposal from the House of Peoples. This House of Representatives, or this home, did not accept a shortened procedure, but we opted for a regular procedure just to observe things from all aspects. I would never normally say that, but here is the general practice, half-information, misinformation, etc., College of the House of Representatives (I believe that the House of Peoples, I don't know, I don't know) is written at the beginning of my term, so Mr. Lozančić, Mr. Živković, Mr. Belkić, thanked and gave up all the escorts, insurance for what we have the right. So that's one dozen people, one three years, etc., so these are some savings, it's not convenient to talk but it's true, because in comments it's said to be required to go before emergency aid, to go before a fire department, etc., that this applies only to members of the College, etc. This applies not only to members of the Colleges, but also to members of the Bureau and the Council of Ministers, etc. I'm the most prone to this Mr. Novaković thinking. So again, I stress, there is no request from the College of the House of Representatives. There's even a fact that... we've given up any escorts, any insurance, etc. in writing. and saved something for this country. So, we are inclined to go in the direction of what Mr. Novaković was talking about, to hear SIPA, to hear the Ministry of Transport and Communication about whether this is bringing any confusion into those regulations and whether this is really necessary from the point of view of this security at all. Thank you. Mr. Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27110	I thank you, Chairman. 21 I would like to make a brief contribution, a very brief contribution to the debate on this agenda point, given that I also participated in the Commission, so here are some cautious views on this and this information is certainly good, which the chairman told us here on behalf of the College of the House of Representatives. What I'm trying to say briefly is that there are two institutes here: a vehicle accompanied by a vehicle with a passing championship, and these are completely two different things. And I would agree completely with Mr. Novaković's presentation when he says that it is very difficult for this law and only one law to do so, and this is only protection, as I interpret the provisions of this law, or the possibility of increasing speed in driving, etc. Drivers are not officially authorised vehicles and in this case they may, they do not have police authority and there may indeed be some significant problems if they are to approach this solution in this way. Besides this, I don't think that because of the importance of function, we need to accept this law. What is the basic argument that it should be because of the importance, I don't think it should be because of the importance of function, and this, in the end, I take it as another privilege for us MPs, regardless, someone is chairman today, tomorrow is someone else, I don't think at this point it's good and it's not good at any time. And, I think there's a general abuse of the Rotation Institute. I, as an MP, have asked parliamentary questions and indeed, on the ground, we can say freely, from the mayor of the municipalities, that we are not going to the lower level, that there are certain rotations along BiH's roads and that they are threatened... of these rotations are endangered normal traffic participants. And to cut my exposure short. I would, I don't see any reason to support this no matter who it came from.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27111	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27112	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, the distinguished guests of NGOs, representatives of the international community, colleagues and colleagues, of course, I speak for myself, I do not intend to support nor principles, let alone support this law for a number of reasons. There are security services in this country that determine the degree of threat of protected persons and give maximum support for such activities but travel only from Sarajevo to Banja Luka and meet or meet 15 vehicles with various rotations. And I was a participant in such a column where even in front of us the police drove another vehicle, took away his championship right and ended up in the canal, and, as we were rude, we didn't stop the column to see what happened to the man. So, classic abuse of rotation. Of these great rotations to the people is the rotation of the head, and then to me, who have no car swearing mother of those blue lights, neither guilty nor duty. So, I speak for myself, nor will I support the principles, nor do I intend to support only one, two members of the law. Gentlemen dear, protected persons, the fate of your safety is in the hands of services that assess the degree of threat and which are made available to you. As members of the House of Representatives' Colleges who gave up these privileges, which are privileges, I give you my support because I don't think you need any escorts. I wish we could go as normal people with citizens who chose us. And just because someone 22 is going to turn on the light and endanger others, so I think... that you should be taking the drivers to account for that right now,...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27113	Please listen to each other. Mr. Mehmedović, please sit down.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27114	...if they don't turn the rotation on, they won't cause any attention and no one will notice them, and if they turn the rotation on, everyone will be interesting, and even put themselves in the position of endangering the personal safety of both the driver and the protected personality he drives. So, I speak for myself, of course, always, as far as I'm concerned, I welcome what the chairman and the normal Council of Ministers is doing, that's how it should be organised. Well, the chairman, not to defend him, he didn't say I needed or didn't need it, but the department determined by law what I needed and what I didn't need. And now that I've seen that space, neither the ministers have the right, nor the deputies, I don't know how much, but it's down to the members of the College, or, I don't know, as it's all said. But I'll tell you one more of the most important reasons. 12 vehicles have the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There's a huge amount of money being paid to install additional equipment and sirens and rotations, and now we're going to pay huge funds to unmount them, they can't keep them in the car anymore. So, in order not to double it all, to finish it, I will never give support to principles or to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27115	I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to point 15. Ad. 15. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts (second reading) It's about another reading. At the 54th session of the bill, he did not get an entity majority. Report, please let's hear a little bit of this, you've got a match report. You saw from the report that no consent was reached. This law will be decided in the second round of voting. So, it's just information running, we'll decide... by voting. We're going to point 16. 23 Ad. 16. Report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27119	I'll just do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27120	Yeah, and one and the other is a commission. Here, Mr. Dokić, just for a moment, Mr. Bahtić has applied before, the Finance and Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27121	At this point we spent at least one hour and a half to two hours and believe very studioly and for the first time that a report of the Management Board came to us at the Commission's session and that it was adopted unanimously... So all the board members supported this report, both of them. The Commission also adopted this report with conclusions, not to read them, you have them there. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27122	... Work report. The next item is this financial report. Next point, I thought you wanted to talk about work. So the financial reports are the next item.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27123	And about the work, nothing. So commendation, there's movement, and that's good. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27124	Okay. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27125	Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to ask if maybe we should move the debate on these agenda points, if we think we need the chairman of the board of directors, he should be here any minute. If we don't think it's necessary, we can discuss it. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27126	That goes beyond my possibilities. Here, I've already made some kind of concession once and put this home in a position to wait. So, I've had an understanding for Mr. Barašanin, but the practice is that I can never say when exactly it will be. So we continue the debate. If the gentleman joins, we have this second item of the agenda, so we have space. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27127	When I came to the floor, the Communications and Transport Commission discussed this report and their work and, as you have seen from the report, supported, I would say unanimously and, as counterpart Bahtić pointed out, there are clearly positive developments in recent times and we hope that such a trend will continue in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27128	I thank Mr. Dokić. I don't have any more reports. I'm closing this agenda item. We're going to the next item on the agenda, so 19. Ad. 19. Report on BHRT's financial operations for 2008, with a review of the corrections of BHRT's financial reports for 2007 and 2008 25 This was therefore done in accordance with the earlier conclusion of the House of Representatives. On 4 May, the board of directors provided the 2008 report on the financial operations of BHRT, with a review of the financial reports' corrections for 2007 and 2008. A review of the corrections of financial reports was adopted on the BHRT Management Board. The financial and budgetary committee responsible discussed these reports and delivered its opinion on 8 June 2009. As you have seen, the Commission unanimously accepted the report and proposed adoption to the House. The Commission also proposed the adoption of the conclusions: 1. The House of Representatives shall support the undertaken activities of the RTBiH Management Board related to the selection of a consulting firm that will draw up a plan for the resolution and consolidation of RTTVBiH and shall task the Management Board to deliver that plan to the House of Representatives in the shortest possible period of time. 2. Also, the House of Representatives proposes to entity law enforcement authorities to comply with the provisions of the Law on the Public TV System of BiH. So this suggests and this implies that lower laws than lower levels are brought into line with state law. 3. The House of Representatives is in charge of the RSVBiH Management Board to send a request to the Competition Council as soon as possible to investigate the work of marketing agencies in order to prevent the monopoly on the marketing market for public services in BiH. 4. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the Federation of BiH Parliament to appoint the FRTV Management Board as soon as possible, which I hope will happen today. So these are the conclusions of our competent commission towards improving business conditions from the point of view of financial security. Mr. Bahtić, do you have a need now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27130	I'll just say it's just like that. The Commission also unanimously accepted the Financial Business Report, with the situation being difficult again. However, it is evident from a few years ago, from the report, that trends in cost reductions and savings have been observed at all levels and increases in their own programme. So, the loss is less than it was, the order is being introduced, the rules are being passed. We have reached these conclusions, and the most important thing for us is that conclusion: the plan for recovery and consolidation, so television and the Public TV service. And the chairman of the Management Board said that they made a decision, that during the procedure the tender was signed, that there was no one inside the house to do so, that they would do some independent expert group, which we welcome – means, this plan of the 26th Rehabilitation and consolidation. One of our conclusions, you see here, here, you've already said there's a possibility that today we can adopt the Board of Directors of FRTV as a prerequisite for forming a public corporation. We think this is the most important thing right now, because a public corporation is going to solve a part of the problem that is clearly above the domain of the Public TV Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27131	I thank you, Mr. Bahtić. I don't have any more co-ops. I'm closing the debate. I'm also closing the debate on item 19. Mr. Barašin has arrived. I greet him and welcome him. And the conditions have been met for us to get back to point 17. Ad. 17. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2008, applicant: BiH Prosecutor's Office And here, today finally, after two attempts, we have conditions to consider information. We got the information on April 17th of this year. The Constitutional Commission delivered its Opinion on 11 May and... our Constitutional Legal Commission has received the information and proposes the same thing to the House, the House of Representatives of the Parliament of BiH. Mr. Šefik Džaferović reported, I assume, as president of the Constitutional Legal Commission, who was in charge of this procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27133	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Our colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have any legal, judicial and executive powers, and we do not have any applicable laws, of course, neither the right nor the obligation to adopt anything or not to adopt what comes from the judiciary sector, but to consider the information they are obliged to deliver to us. We take them into consideration and eventually see what we need to do and it could improve the functioning of the BiH judiciary system. That is the purpose of this information, and I am like the chairman of the Constitutional Commission and the Constitutional Commission I understand. We have not entered deeper into the analysis of the recommendations contained in this information, but I think that this home, and in this direction we can make certain conclusions, should take whatever is in its jurisdiction, in its competence and ask those who have jurisdiction, such as. The Council of Ministers and other institutions in BiH, in order to put the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH State Prosecutor's Office in place as it belongs to the law of our country, and the information shows that certain measures need to be taken, 27 so that support should be given and assistance should be provided to the state prosecutor's institution in order to make the institution do its job more successfully. So much, thank you, and did your job in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27134	Surely, Mr. Džaferović. Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I would like first of all to say that the SDP Club, a SDP representative club in this House, supports the work of all BiH institutions, is trying in one critical way to analyse these reports to also contribute to improving the work of these institutions. In this regard, we also believe that the debate on the annual report we are considering today, in particular, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, is a good opportunity to critically analyse this work and to make some proposals to improve this work. Allow me a few comments and finally a brief question and a proposal. We believe that a good part of the report is unnecessarily engaged in a detailed way in organisational structure and less analysis of work and real work problems. We believe that explicits should, therefore, be expressed in a specific, specific and direct way to show basic problems and difficulties in work and to suggest what are priority measures for more effective work of the Prosecutor's Office. With that in mind, I'd like as an example to comment very briefly on, say, odjel II.. Prosecution related to organised crime. Namely, the report says that in the last year it has been ruled... in 23 cases. This concerned 39 persons, a 53-year sentence and all those total acts that imposed fines of 415,000 marks and that property was seized worth about 1.5 million marks. Now, you see, now that, of course, there's no detailed data, so you don't know about the structure of anything that's a crime, is that a lot, is that a little bit. Here, this data remains to be analyzed. You see, in 23 cases, how many effects have been obtained by taking away illegally acquired assets and it's about the Department that treats organised crime. This suggests, therefore, that the prosecution seems to me to be more involved in petty criminals, or petty crime, at least when it comes to figures. Of course, there is no record of how much the prosecution's demands were when it came to these figures for the confiscation of illegally acquired assets or the payment of fines. The question arises whether the Prosecutor's Office has serious problems in proving the amount of illegally acquired property. And here's a question: What is the fate of the seized property? Is she really taken away and still at her disposal? We have asked parliamentary questions in this regard in the previous period, and we have not quite received appropriate answers, and even in this report we cannot find any data on whether 28 are serious problems here. This also points to the prosecutor's position in the chapter 'Participation in the Reform Process in BiH', which says 'the Prosecutor's Office will engage, among other things, in the process of establishing effective mechanisms and procedures for the confiscation of unlawfully acquired benefits, and rational management and availability of confiscated assets, including active participation in proposing amendments to the legal and other regulations governing this area'. I listed this, dear colleagues and colleagues, just to remind us that here there is and to say one direct point of view of the tužiljstvo 'that certain mechanisms are missing when it comes to investigating and proving organised crime and confiscating illegally acquired property'. With this in mind, I would like to remind you and update you, and I suppose, in that sense, I will also formulate a proposal for a conclusion, that the adoption of the Law on the Agency to ensure the forced confiscation of illegally acquired assets and the management of this property is re-untilly updated in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27136	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27137	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to section I in the D.A.'s report when it comes to war crimes. But I want to say, as a clagworth for the continuation of the discussion, that somewhere in March 2007, when BiH's prosecutor was Mr. Marinko Jurčević, then asked this parliament to prepare a five-year strategy to end this painful topic of all the peoples and citizens in BiH. And, I see in the report, which is good that the Council of Ministers has prepared, it's only been that strategy for seven years, but through this report, when I later explain and comment on certain parts of this Section I, it will be seen about the efficiency of the work. Of course I haven't forgotten to support all the institutions dealing with this problem, but it is quite a huge difference between me giving support and efficiency in the work of these institutions operating at BiH level. So, the report as a report, each one is well made up. The standard methodology on various figures and other things that, in fact or in principle, do not say much, is applied, but is spoken by people and citizens. And what I want to particularly apostrophe is and perhaps a good thing is that we politicians don't interfere in the work of pro-judicial institutions, but I've said it many times in this House and we don't need to interfere, but I say everyone else interferes. So with the great enthusiasm of the Presidents of the Court and the chief prosecutor are receiving Doris pak, so she can be mixed up regardless, I am not reducing her importance as a European Parliamentarian, she is in charge of Southeast Europe, so I see many ambassadors from many countries visiting this court and they have only come to their initiatives well, when they give donations and support for this institution to stand on their feet, but I see and they interfere. I am the only one who is not allowed to say anything about this and I have never gone to a session of Parliament but not for a private walk without at least five people meeting me and asking what this BiH Prosecutor's Office is doing. 29 Now I will begin as well as I have time, if I am to arrive, and I cannot make it, I should talk about this for two days, but the least important thing is what I shall say, for the prosecution will do it again, and let me not interfere there either, but at least draw attention to them. So they're fine-tuned here. I wish that as it stands in the formulation, that the Special Department of War Crimes, therefore the special section is organized and there they say about international legal aid, terrorism, as they have already distributed these three things, which is very good, however, not to forget, and that is crucial for me, let the BiH prosecutor prepare immediately to replace foreign prosecutors because, as far as I'm concerned, they will never get the support to extend their mandate. The efficiency of their work cannot be measured even by percentages, because first it needs to be translated by that translator what he will do, until they translate it to him, until they translate it to me, so while I translate it to the people, until we translate it to everyone, to everyone, this process will unfortunately take 50 years. Who will come to this court to testify, and who will participate in any process at all, if any cases are ever prosecuted? So, I'm talking about the painful wound of all citizens. And they're finely listed here in the report how many domestic prosecutors they have, so that these main departments are run by strangers, like we got off a branch or some catacombs yesterday, so we don't have any domestic resources and there's nobody else to sit down for some foreign prosecutor, so that's why our prosecution became a small Hag. I speak of course always in my own name. I come from an NGO that has expressed its most indignation towards The Hague tribunal. And today I will repeat, I see that they rely on some of their reports, and even without them, they can't breathe because they're supposed to consult them, and the UN tribunal finished the investigations in 2004, it doesn't deal with it, and even the cases that he has given to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, no one knows about their fate. And there were more statements from the prosecution's spokesman: "The investigative actions are being conducted." Until when? Until Judgment Day? Will someone explain to the citizens, not to me, it's all clear to me, and it's a very inefficient institution that I repeat to the public many times, the painful wound of all citizens has never resolved and the question is whether it will resolve it. So there are countless things in this first section that I could comment on and say about this strategy, although in 2003 they began to work when new legislation began to apply, so in the last session, I also asked a parliamentary question: That this is the only country in Europe that retroactively applies legislation to crimes that occurred in the previous period? It's nowhere in the world, and even here it's not unique. The BiH Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office apply the 2003 law to acts made in '92. '95. years, until some cantonal courts and prosecutors apply it. So we are unable to resolve these relations within the institutions of this country. Secondly, I see here on page 8 that this strategy provides for the completion of the most sensitive or important cases in seven years, and then, within 15 years of the adoption of the strategy, there will be a centralisation of the update of the record of all war crimes cases at the level of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. So were all those kids in '92? She was only born, so they'll live for 100 years, so she'll wait 15 years for it to end. It's about people who are no longer middle-aged but at the end of their lives, key witnesses who unfortunately took the truth to their graves, and who will and when will these objects be opened tomorrow who will testify? Who's going to come out and explain what needs to be there, so it's just going to be like this: we've been conducting an investigation, we have no evidence, we have no witnesses, we've closed the case. Unfortunately, that wound must not be closed, it must be opened every day. 30 And yet they listed one formula (when I come across it) which is crucial and which is completely incorrect, just to find it. Yes, of course, they have six teams here. Imagine, six teams established according to geographical and regional structure. I wish in this report what these teams have done so far in these sectors where they've deployed them. Well, then they're collapsing whether the prosecution's sensitivity took over from someone of a lower authority, a lower prosecutor's office in these regions, so no one knows what happened here. So here on page 13. Interesting thing... they say 'Special... War Crimes Department During 2008 there were 659 cases against 3,580 people, of which 85 other cases against 386 people were received during 2008.' So if I didn't bother you with the numbers, you all got this material, everything received, and especially the formulation that stands for 'transmitted from last year'. Not from the past, transferred after the war, 13-14 years, objects that have not yet seen the light of day. And the question is, will you ever. So they put these charts together finely here, did a good look. And if only I were to watch the report, I say, this is great, I would accept this, but I don't intend to accept this report, especially this report, for the first part, about war crimes. And, imagine these formulations, he said, "These data also indicate that a large number of scheduled hearings before the Court of BiH, and given the complexity and complexity of the case," which I do not dispute, that due to the busyness of judges and courts, "trials in almost every case last long, on average a year and a year and a half". Busy judges, busy courtrooms! I have no right to say, but gentlemen, clear these cases, here's your courtroom here. Look for courtrooms, get rid of them, don't just pull out into space, and the objects in the drawers are standing! Every evening you witness that the most animosity from all structures, of all peoples, of all citizens, is the most complaints and complaints about the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court, and, when it comes to these two institutions, especially this segment of war crimes. And down there is a very important formulation, on page 17, where they say when it comes to witnesses. Now, this is where they just hit it. It is certain that the flow of time since the crimes committed has affected the same memories.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27138	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27139	I'm sorry, I'm done. And indeed, I've only come for two minutes what I thought I was saying, but I respect the Rules of Procedure, the restriction, I'm finishing here with a sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27140	...the name of the club, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27141	I respect you, of course. Just let me finish what they hit. 'Remembrances', he says, 'were as pale as certain key witnesses in the meantime passed away.' Well, he won't live without bounds. Just because witnesses have passed away and many will die this year and next, who will testify to you in the prosecution and the court. 31 Therefore, gentlemen, I have no intention of accepting this. This is the biggest problem and the most unsuccessful reform (it's foreigners), I'm telling everyone, is a just-minded system where they boast as something they've done. They didn't. Of course, when I say all this, this isn't about the chief prosecutor personally, it's about your team. So once again, please prepare a replacement for foreign prosecutors. You won't get the consent to extend their mandate, as you all fight there, as if they were something important. This country has the ability to continue this process, and you are in charge of organising, have until December and prepare these personnel, let them get in a little bit of trouble, and in the name of the club I will now say this, because I have the approval to keep in mind, but to surprise you with our initiative that we are a remethyling factor, so here we remembered in December, not to give. Not now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27142	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27143	I would like to say very briefly that the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office would be good if we were to speak with correctness, argument and principle. It would be good for us, as representatives of the legislative authority, to be principled, by respecting the three-division division of power into legislative, executive and judicial power. I'm afraid my colleague Jovičić is not principled in this story, when he specifically speaks and accentuates this part of the work of the Special War Crimes Department. I would like to say that I absolutely believe that there is room to improve the work of the D.A. and this department. However, I would like to remind you of one fact. Namely, fellow Jovičić, and not to add up to the other MPs now, could not even take a small step when it comes to war crimes in BiH, and that small step is next. The Council of Europe adopted a Resolution on the Day of Remembrance of the Srebrenica genocide. And this parliament, including counterpart Jovičić, unfortunately could not take that small but large step for the victims: that this parliament should adopt to mark the Day of Remembrance of the Srebrenica genocide. So that small step was not taken here in the legislative body, and on the other hand, some major or even greater results in the work of the Prosecutor's Office are being asked of those MPs. I repeat, therefore, there is room for improving the work of the Prosecutor's Office, but we really need to be principled, and we too, as representatives of the legislative authority, to make certain steps in order to be able to work better and representatives of the judicial authority.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27144	Dear sender Slavko Jovičić, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27145	So I don't know if I proved principled or I did, and I'll say, I had the best intentions, because I was one of the few Srbin who went to Srebrenica to Potocara for the opening of the Memorial Center. To me as a victim of the previous war, people, it wasn't easy, especially at the Palace. I thought when I got back, they'd hang me. But fortunately, I tell you the truth, 32 four or five people were insolent and said, "Have you been able to leave who has suffered the worst torture and abuse for 44 months?" That's when I said it and I said it again, and now I'm going to say it again, and I had the best intention of handing out the reconciliation we're always talking about, or trust. Reconciliation is the individual act of each individual whether to reconcile. There's no law that'll make us settle down. So, I'm gone. And to you, my colleague Bećirović, I will not ask where you were where the Srbin were killed on any site and if you mentioned it. Here, you don't have to come. So here is the initiative today: set up a delegation that will go to Potocari to set up a crown, mark the day of destruction there, but to determine Srbin, but also to determine Hrvat. So when the people see us together that we are also in the Potocari, that we are also in Sijekovec, that we are also in Nazdol, that we are also in Jablanica, then the people will say that there is a sense. And I spoke only earlier because it is evident that there are no open processes at the BiH Prosecutor's Office where Srbin were killed. Guys, this isn't where love was made for four years. Here people were killing each other and I am not looking for a balance in the amount of crimes committed, but a balance in the amount of justice that unfortunately is not for Srbin and Hrvat at the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office. That's the point. I ask: Will the BiH Prosecutor's Office open any items where Srbin were killed? Here they don't have five camps where I've been and I've made statements, completed the course a long time ago. Am I going to listen to the D.A.'s spokesman every night: "The investigation is being conducted." So when the Serbian Prosecutor's Office takes over, then it's wood and rocks on us, that we don't trust our institutions. We do, but, gentlemen, you work for what you're in charge and what you're paid to do and explain to the people, not me. I repeat, why are there no open objects where Srbin were victims? I repeat, I was in Srebrenica, but I don't want 11 or 7 or 8 days of hell to come down to that period alone, and as a legalist, I was speaking when that case was here at Parliament, but, gentlemen, both Srbin and Hrvat were killed. Will someone say that in this House? And don't count me, one mother who lost three sons was the Bošnjakinja, the Srpkinja, the Hrvatica, in her tragedy are both Srebrenica and Aušvic and Jasenovac and everything possible. Who's going to explain that to that woman?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27146	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27147	That's why there's no law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27148	Thank you. The next one for the replica came from a distinguished MP, Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I just want to briefly say the line to Mr Bećirović's presentation. I think, Mr. Bećirović, that you should be careful to observe what anyone has accepted and what anyone has not accepted. For the first reason... that you mention what you are objecting to to Mr. Jovičić and all of us are not going to consider it, and given what happened to 33 of us and you are not in your head that in Srebrenica only the Bosniak but also the other part of the people of the other two in BiH were killed. That's the first reason. And the second reason is: I don't think you have the right to comment on anyone, not even as a citizen of Tuzla. I thought that was what Jovičić's colleague would say, but here he is, not even as a citizen of Tuzla, because three years ago, when Mr. Jovičić came as a member of the Association of Republika Srpska's Campers only to place flowers in place and place a memorial plate where Srbin were killed in Tuzla, representatives of your people came and kicked your feet and flowers and broke the memorial board and drove them away and rushed them away as the biggest enemies in this country. That's why it would be good for you to take care of yourself and keep that in mind that it happened right in the city that you come from in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27150	I ask you all, since the chairman wasn't there, that the replicas don't go in the direction of today's agenda. And I want to warn you that in the next lines, whoever signed up, stick to the agenda, not what's not on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27151	That's understood, that's also business. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27152	Well, I'm not getting into these Tuzla stories, what Tuzla is and who is Tuzla. Let objective, neutral people from the world speak, etc. And there's no need for me to spend my time on it today. However, there is another problem. The problem is when MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly do not want to or do not want to read the European Parliament resolution. I can't say they didn't get it, I suppose, as I did as an MP, that all the other MPs got the text of that resolution. In that resolution, for those who did not want to say so, therefore, the European Parliament resolution accurately and clearly includes genocide in Srebrenica, but also condemnation of all war crimes and misdemeanors throughout BiH's territory. Therefore, that is to be said publicly and openly, and there is no attempt to abuse, and in this case even the European Parliament's Resolution. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27153	First, just a replica of the presentation of the distinguished Mrs. Marković. So, when it comes to the victims in Srebrenica, as you say, I'm just inviting you to read the International Court of Justice ruling in The Hague and it's going to be quite clear who is and in what way and how everything... nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27154	Did you sign up for the discussion, Remzi? 34
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27155	Yes, I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27156	And you finished both discussion and replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27157	I didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27158	Well, here you go. I suggested you put it together.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27159	How about I put it together, huh?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27160	Because you're up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27161	Yes, I'm sorry. I thank you, Chairman. So, when it comes to the report on the work of the Prosecutor's Office, I will only briefly comment on this page, page 2 of this report and... in this introductory part of this report in which it stands, and read a very important sentence and comment: "The BiH Prosecutor's Office is a special body of BiH established in order to effectively exercise the authority of the BiH state, respect for human rights and legality in its territory and effectively combating crime and strengthen the rule of law." I think it would be good to remove all the dilemmas, and a part of the sentence could be added here: 'as provided for in the BiH Constitution in Article II of Article 2(2) and Article III under g').' Thus, it could unequivocally conclude that the prosecution was established under the BiH Constitution. I think... that in that part this sentence would be even more... complete, more quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27162	I apologize to Mr. Jovičić, but I gave Remzija a little priority, even though I owed you one. Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27163	So in the first part, in fact, in the general presentation, I opted for this report, I was talking about it, I didn't mean to spread to these other topics, which are always present regardless of what the agenda is. 35 But to be specific, so I didn’t mean to mention Tuzla where I barely saved my head alive, but that’s another story. I was talking about this report, and I'm going to repeat, Mr. Bećirović, there's no more principled man when it comes to this than I am, here, so you tell me that I'm boasting, because for me, the camper is a saint, whether he was a Bošnjak, a Hrvat, a Srbin saint. Each more or less went through a different torture, depending on who caught him before and grabbed him and detained him, mostly unauthorized as a civilian. Someone upstairs who's been gone for two days and was immediately killed, and I've been lucky to have 44 months, in fact, an accident to be, and I'm lucky to survive, and I'm having serious physical consequences today, and fortunately, I haven't got any brains yet. Because if I was in camps, I wasn't in a nuthouse, and I didn't get the whole problem. And I stand under public pressure, so if you listen and if you follow the media, that almost every other day an NGO threatens to block the prosecution and the court. Why? So it's not those people's goal of coming by bus to Sarajevo, paying a ticket to block someone, but because they're unhappy, which is that no object has yet been opened where Srbin were killed. When someone is going to come out, not me, from the D.A.'s representative and say some kind of extra sentence, not a non-substantiation: "The investigation is under way." Until when? How long's the investigation? Until I'm alive, when I can't testify either. Do you gentlemen know that only in the last year 55 of my campmates died, not of natural causes, but of abuse. Unfortunately, I don't know the data on the Bosniak and Croatian side, although I'm with them all the time. You know, it's easy for you to discuss here with all the colleagues who haven't felt this evil, who happened to me in Silos and the one in Keraterm and the one in Hrvat who was with me in Silas when there were mutual conflicts. So, I'm not looking at a nation here, I repeat, for me is a camper of sacred things that the nation has been, because it's mostly unjustly imprisoned and harassed, murdered, abused by the worst punishments that you'll never understand or understand, whatever experts they are, because that human mind can't understand what people have survived. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. And I repeat as a representative of the Serbian people chosen by Srbin: When will you open an object where Srbin have been killed? And now, let me not be selective: when will you open an object where the Hrvat have been killed? You're just taking the Srbin to court, and whoever's guilty, take him out, I'm not defending anyone. I will never stand in defense of whoever committed the crime, on the contrary. I'll bet they're all processed, but it can't be just one side of it. With such a selective approach, you cause enormous animosity among a people who are neither guilty nor in debt as a representative of that people I suffer for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27164	We're not experts, Slavko, but we understand for sure. So, Selim Bešlagić, the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27165	He didn't give Bog to anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27166	He didn't give Bog to anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27167	I wanted to apologize first, but I didn't want to replicate. But when Mrs Marković mentioned Tuzla and Brcanska Malta, here are the living witnesses that I, Selim Bešlagić, 36 MPs in this parliament, asked the BiH Prosecutor's Office to process the process. And I expect a definitive answer so that I can look into your eyes, and if it is a crime, if it is proven, I, like Selim Bešlagić, will first ask to be placed there. Please don't set anything up before the truth is proved. And for that reason please stay away from Tuzla. In Tuzla they didn't,... Slavko, when you were, the Bošnjak didn't perform, then the Tuzlac performed in Tuzla. And in that sense, please, stay away from Tuzla and an example of what happened in Tuzla. The BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office, if they have this evidence, and he's the subject in question, I've been praying here, I've been a living witness to you and I've asked you for an answer to see how far it's come. Because I can't take that pressure any worse than I did in the camp he was. Therefore, I ask the prosecution and I think we should support the report and ask it to prosecute war crimes first and foremost, because it is the first and basic principle of reconciliation within BiH. Everything else can wait and I absolutely agree with you, no matter who or when, but only to process and get to the truth. And that's why I asked you about Prosecution to let the D.A. say, I'm ready here to handle the consequences, because then I was the responsible man in Tuzla when it happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27168	Incorrect quote or replica. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27169	Thank you, Chairman. It is precisely inselectiveness or selectivity in the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and what you, Mr Bešlagić, spoke of the biggest cause of inability to reconcile in BiH and we are talking about it here. And today it is on the agenda of this BiH topic, such as the former regime after World War II, and we can also talk about this resolution that we received the European Parliament the other day, the condemnation of totalitarian and communist regimes being in a non-selective way or a biased communist way reckoning with the people of this country regardless of the nation. That's what we're talking about today, about selectivity in the work of the D.A.'s office, about his unhappiness, respect for human rights, and that's not the way to reconciliation in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27170	We've exhausted the replicas. Bakir Izetbegović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27171	So, the strategy adopted in December last year by the Council of Ministers predicted that the main cases should be resolved within seven years. Last year there were 23 war crimes charges filed, and it would probably take us a hundred years to complete that pace, yes, not seven years. Also, in connection with organised crime, 24 have been indicted by some 56 people. These are the main problems of this country, so war crime, it's contaminated by war criminals, we all know they walk freely on all sides. And then organized crime, which includes trafficking, is trafficking in human beings and drugs and... corruption at the highest level, organised crime, terrorism. So this is not just a matter of the prosecution, this is a social problem and normal... that this home, i.e. the legislative authority and executive authority should not be involved in the work of the Court, but should be helped, and the work of the Prosecutor's Office. And this report is incomplete 37 while there is no conclusion in it that you are looking for help to solve problems. You say you don't have enough office space, that you don't have, that you have a problem with personnel, that you don't even have enough space to store these files that are active at this hour, that it's not good co-operation with international organizations related to you. So I think we have a serious problem, that things are going very slowly, that a bunch of unsolved cases from 2007 increased in 2008, has not been reduced. It lacks what you expect from the legislative authority, or executive authority, and how to help you be more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27172	Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27173	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected presidents, members of the Council of Ministers, chief prosecutor, guests, we have a truly important topic in this agenda today, but I am not sure that, as with many other important topics, we will respond to this Parliament in a good way. Unfortunately, we show a good part and demonstrate the overall state of relations in BiH that is certainly burdening, and the work of the institution that has offered us today information about its work in the past year. Here, I don't know why BiH's chief prosecutor didn't take advantage of the opportunity to address this parliament before discussing the prosecution's work information. And yes, as one of my predecessors has already said, it apostrophes the phenomena of movement, the causes, the consequences. ... In Information we have statistics and whoever wants statistical indicators to read he will see how many cases were processed, how many criminal charges were received, how many investigations, how many charges were filed, how many convictions were convicted, and so on. However, what such information should certainly provide should enable an institution that should be independent in its work to address the highest legislative body and to request, if necessary, the support of that highest legislative body... to remove obstacles that arise to make the institution more effective than it is. A lot of what has been said so far, I say again, paints the state of total relations and perceptions worth most of all in BiH about all the prosecutions, so I would say to this highest one, means the BiH Prosecutor's Office. There is a lot of general mistrust that each of us, I think, sometimes this institution contributes, contributes to developing, continues to appear. And then it is certainly an ambience in which such an institution is very difficult to meet the challenges facing it and truly fulfil its constitutional and legal obligation. We have seen from your information on the state of crime, and we could say that the situation with regard to all the overall opportunities in BiH, but I wish you'd rated it,... and it's not, as I say, so worrying. ... Maybe I'm wrong, but here I'm saying, it's kind of my grade from that data I saw in your information. But solving, the process of solving those items that are in the process, I don't think it goes with the desired dynamics. Since the esteemed representative Bešlagić is probably the only man I've ever heard of... well, here's a summary of the circumstances, and the MP, sent an open call, and now I've repeated it, I know he's sent it 38 long before. We have a problem. You know that people are asking: give me or judge me, take my Stigma off me. You know, it stands over people, and I get the impression that there's an awful lot of people in this country where for some reason there's some kind of stigma, and then for different reasons, it's getting around, it's stalling, it's wasting precious time. Neither people are guilty, nor are they freed, nor are they innocent, it's simply often the impression that, although it doesn't have to be true, but it's the impression that through these institutions some kind of, I don't know, no presses, pressure, conducting, crazy, but that's not the case. But that's the impression you get, then. We have several cases in the last few years when the institutions of other states take over our institutions. And what should be taken seriously, because if the crime is committed on BiH territory, so there is territorial jurisdiction, if damaged on BiH territory, if the perpetrator is presumed to be on BiH territory, there is indeed a question of why someone else outside the territory of the country is processing something that should be the country's competent institutions. But if we have an appeal and here's someone who's hung over by one of them, let's say, let's get more people to do it, then the real question is why isn't it done. We have a more recent case, so to speak, of which a lot is written in public and what is inevitably asked as a question, here I am asking myself a question, asking you too... if there is, we know that there is a formally adopted strategy, so here is the Council of Ministers finally adopted, so what is it, you know, is good. I expected your review to say: this strategy is not satisfactory, it's not good, it could be better, we need something else, I don't know what. There is an impression that there is one selective approach. Is it too sensitive, I even had a chance to listen to such grades, too sensitive. Look, it's a lot sensitive, but we just need to be hypersensitive to sensitive things today, so we have to deal with them hypersensitively. So we can't wait too sensitive, I don't know how long, to get into the sphere of solving these sensitive things, and they produce negative consequences, they violate what's very important, trust in institutions, you, courts, police authorities. It takes citizens' trust, meaning that they would go to their institutions with full confidence and help you solve these very, very complex things. I expected you to also say here if there is, I believe there is, right now, but I will offer, and you say I would like to be denied: Is there any obstruction, as they prove, as they manifest themselves, as they manifest themselves in your work, do you have any problems in cooperation with the authorities, with law enforcement agencies? I read a sentence in your information, which says "penalty reports are often intelligence," if I remember correctly. There can't be a criminal record of 'intelligence'. Is that why we have, I don't know, 14, 15 thousand war crimes cases? So because we're buried with 14, 15 grand, we can't deal with some... for which there really are both capacities and material evidence etc. It's a very, very sensitive subject, especially from the position we are in, and here I am again saying, I would expect, or I expected you here to seek support. You best know where you need backup. So now I'm not telling you where you need support, but you know where to go. Is it legislative, this is where this regulation is brought, satisfactory, whether it provides space enough for you to be able to fulfil your constitutional and legislative tasks or for something missing in that regulation? So, is the legislative regulation that regulates the work of law enforcement agencies good, you can see it from your perspective... and does that need to be changed? Is the form of cooperation between you and the prosecutions of entity, cantonal goods and what should possibly be done in legislation, because this cannot be done by any agreement. I often hear an agreement between, perhaps not the prosecution, the agency, etc. So I can't replace the agreements with 39 laws. So that part is well regulated and whether there is horizontal and vertical and communication and subordination, is there simply a secure system in which any prosecutor can work uninterruptedly to fulfil his constitutional powers? I think that for such as to submit information about your work to this home, and this is not a safe place or an opportunity for us to comment on any individual subject or way of handling it operationally or prosecutorly. But it certainly is our interest to make this institution effective, to make it as effective as possible for all of us to respond together to the legitimate demands of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27174	Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27175	Thank you. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2008, of course I will accept. I think the D.A.'s got results when he's taking the ambience he's working in. Of course it can be improved, it's not just the DA's office, it's up to us. The legislative authority can do much good, as we help best when it comes to budgeting, propose budgeting, minority pressures are being made to reduce justice even what is necessary for them to function normally, and I am against it. And right away to say that I'm gonna stay foreign prosecutors and judges in BiH, is this who they are going to deal with... we're going to chase and chase each other and we're not going to do anything. I'll take a brief look at section of the War Crimes Department. I come from the Bosnian province, then it was called the Bosnian province before the war, and now for me, the Bosnian province, it was and always will be, from the Sana River valley where a lot was done, from camps, prisons, crime, something, but there was little, little, responsibility. I will first express my opinion on this state-run strategy for the processing of war crimes adopted by the Council of Ministers for seven years. I believe this is a very important matter and that this Parliament, that the legislative authority should have given an opinion on this strategy. I have one remark, is that my point is also to the prosecutor, the D.A., is our Prosecutor's Office of BiH and The Hag, and also domestic this... always deals with the processing of most of those direct perpetrators, means direct, petty, which is said to be both hensmen and not employers of this crime. I think this is a key problem. We know that before the conflict broke out that in all and one municipality where the authorities of one party, the SDS, were forced to take over, crisis headquarters were formed. It is known exactly, I have here all the data, the name and last all and one member of these crisis headquarters and presidents, the place of residence and now what he's doing, where he works and such, believe me, none of them have come, although they are, in my opinion, the key culprits, not the one who did it directly, but the one who planned it, so crisis headquarters. I also want to point out that I come from the Sanski Most, the Sana River Valley, you know the Key, the Sani Most, the Predor, the Bosnian New that there were over a hundred different camps. Also, I don't want to amnest anyone who's committed a crime, no matter which side it comes from, so no crime, in my opinion, should be amnesty. But we can't pretend that they're all the same, that it was the same crime. It's well known who started the war, it's well known how many camps were on one side, it's known how many were killed. There are open objects and where Srbin and Hrvat were victims, 40 we know that, we don't have to defend ourselves, I think there are such objects. So I want to say that in the Sanski Most municipality, where I come from, I got this... as well as a mission, it's my duty, in the period '92 to '95. There were 23 places camped. Three thousand campers have passed, many have been killed. It's registered exactly 782 who were killed, it's known forcibly. That's all, there's all the paperwork in the D.A.'s office. Only so far has it been prosecuted in The Hague, which in domestic -- five war criminals, before the BiH Court of Justice, three and three at the Cantonal Court in Bihac. I have names and names all and one, no one to be afraid of, the BiH state is... But believe me, these people from crisis headquarters, I don't know what reason they're afraid, they've never come to visit their community where they were born. That's saying enough, and he's working and living within a 30km community. And it's known that he was, that he has all the paperwork. So, specifically, the D.A.'s office is also my question: Why isn't the D.A., the War Crimes Department dealing with the processing of employers, I specifically mean the middle level – crisis headquarters? Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27176	Replica, Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27177	Well, here I was listening to a colleague of Bahtić. When the discussion began, it seemed to me that he would speak differently, since he came from an interesting region. He mentioned that war crimes were convicted of people in The Hague. But it's very interesting that he didn't say he was one of them in the river. That he's in prison in the river. It's very interesting to mention the crisis headquarters of the SDS, but there are no mention of any, there were some crisis headquarters in the same people. And it was in that end of the fierce conflict and war crimes in, not to say, conflicts where they belong to the same people. It's very interesting to keep quiet about that, too. But, let's say, now they're, here's the search, I don't know either, and what I'm not slowing down, crisis headquarters this and that one, because that's where he did this or that. What am I saying? I think from the story of war crimes and the story of the D.A.'s office, it's a more important story about the state. If we keep this up, this is a safe path to division. If the prosecution as an institution will put that one or two peoples... that absolutely don't believe it, then we have a problem. One who thinks we shouldn't look for ways to make these two people trust the institution, but that we're going to push like this, it's not good. I fully respect the fact and the importance of war crimes, but if, what I've said before, if we're going to get a completely different effect of justice, reconciliation and trust, if we're going to deepen the division in this way that from the part where we've seen terrible crimes on television, members of the same people over the same people, and it's not for political or non-performing reasons, and it's a matter of silence and insisting on a single fact – it's only one nation's fault and only the representatives of a nation are guilty. No, even, it doesn't surprise anyone anymore, but the fact is, if someone doesn't think it strengthens divisions and that's the best way to work in the division of this country, he's wrong, he's wrong. One individual can think as he wills and we can process him, we can also drive him out of the SIPA, from the prosecution, from Parliament, from the government, we can send him to The Hague, and one people you can't. You have to deal with what a people think. He was constitutionally given the right to think, and this is not, at this point, at least I think he thinks he thinks he does. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27178	Here, now we'll hear what another people think.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27179	Well, of course there's a replica. First, I said no one was amnested. It is well known that the inter-Bosnian conflict, as it has arisen, and who directed it. It was directed by whoever started the war, we're smart enough to know that. And there are them on one side and on the other. The prosecution has already launched certain investigations and there have been signs and detentions, so there is nothing disputed about it. However, counterpart Kalabić, of course, is not an attack on one people, but it cannot be evened out. And number two, I can't, as I would be a man if I could say right now, a man living in Prijedor, took 200,000 marks, let him go, didn't kill him, killed 50 people there, and such a man was the president of the crisis... headquarters and... And you know people who carried money to save their heads. The one who had the money saved his head, the one who wasn't killed. And now you need to keep your mouth shut and so free to sit there. Why doesn't he come, nobody's gonna hurt him. So, man knows he's consciously guilty. The D.A.'s got all the paperwork, name and last name, I'll send you, the D.A.'s got everything. Let him go to court and let him go free, but that process has to be opened. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27180	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27181	Correction of two false allegations from Mr...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27182	Correction of two false allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27183	Yes, Mr. Kalabić and Mr. Bahtić. In Krajina, there was no conflict of the people, nor was it an inter-bossian conflict. It was a conflict between members of the BiH Army that protected BiH's dignity and constitutional order and those who wanted to separate the part.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27184	Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27185	I was saying that justice is a very sensitive issue, and that is how it should be treated. I did not slow down, and it is not my problem that Bahtić lists these things, counterpart Bahtić, not getting into whether they are true, is it, if they are true, and it is not my problem that he asks them to be processed, I am not at all. I have a problem with him keeping his mouth shut. And that's the answer to Mr. Nanić. If I'd seen on television that five people seem to be an invisible crime, that it's made by members of one people, the same over the same people, I don't care what hat they wore and who belonged to what, it's about crime, and that's our problem that we don't talk about because we only see on the other, it's the problem, not to slow down at all one thing that they've been happening. One nation's 42 are, it's over, they've shown their relationship to it, and it's true, and they're in The Hague and in Sarajevo, and I don't know which one. If you think that's the fact that this issue is going to be resolved by keeping this other thing quiet, it won't. That's what we saw, and we're witnessing who was on which side. We're talking about crimes and those who committed crimes, which is irrelevant in the name of which armies and in the name of which, if we speak, if crime is a universal concept. If the political term is then say: those who bear the mark of the BiH Army will not answer because they belonged to the BiH Army, and that BiH Army had the right to commit crimes, whether over its own people, or over other peoples. Then we're not talking about the universal notion of crime. And I was saying that that's what we're missing, that one thing we keep quiet about, that another thing is powerfully potentiating. And I told you in the beginning that you knew what direction it was headed, and that's what separates us. And if we have the strength to say it completely, and that's what we said to the D.A., it just means that people in this country all feel the same, that they're equal in front of the law. And that's our basic problem. At this point, they don't feel it, and we need to find a way out of this situation, not to say at all about the type of crime, not the people who did it, but to come first to resolve this situation, that people have confidence in these institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27186	I am obliged to remind you once again that we are discussing information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office for 2008... Here you go, Mr. Dolić, replica. So, business people have the right to look for replicas and people are looking for replicas, they think this is a place and an opportunity to express their attachment to the people, etc., to the truth, etc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27187	Mr. Chairman, I will understand that you have these comments in front of my replicas by chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27188	...believe in relationships, but we've gone off topic completely.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27189	I was just about to say that we are entering these discussions into a trap, turning into judges. Both I personally and the option I advocate, etc. We have a lot of objections to the work of the Court, but we also have confidence that the Court will still do what it is responsible for. We need to give this trust to the Court. I don't think this is how we provide it. Mr. Nanić here represents the fighting passwords that we have already heard. Listen, there was an inter-Muslim conflict in Krajina, and there were crimes on one side and the other. Let the Court prove and show who is responsible, punish who is responsible. Of course, we accept the judgments and decisions of the Court, whatever they may be. These one-sided things, you know we're on God's path, and this is another criminal or so. - that's what we've been through here and I think as long as we don't get past these people in court, they don't have anything to do and they'll never finish their job for which they're founded. Thank you very much. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27190	I'm asking you to get back to the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Kadrić, do you have this replica, too?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27191	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27192	There you go, of course, of course you have to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27193	I have to react to what Dolić and Kalabić said. So, here's where it gets harder, things replace. So the crimes were not committed by representatives of certain nations, but by individuals in certain formations, so individuals, not representatives of some people. And so in Cazinska it wasn't an inter-Muslim conflict, and this is Nanić Husein quite right and absolutely right, it wasn't a conflict... within a nation, but it was a completely different conflict. So, these things, they have to be responded to.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27194	Okay, Rezmija, we've long known that no citizen, or individual, is seen from the people. Azra Hadžiahmetović, same replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27195	Chairman, it's not a replica, it's a business intervention. We have a agenda point that is formulated as Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office, one of the institutions, and I ask you to interrupt every discussion and replica that is not related to the agenda point. I know we can go wide on all the events, but there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27196	Here, I'll take it, don't sign up, no one else sign up for the replica. Let's move on. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27197	I suggested, both for discussion and for replicas, and for everything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27198	Thank you. Here, I'm not gonna start the way I thought.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27199	There are already effects, they won't... 44
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27200	It has its effects, I will stick to the Work Information, so it's not a work report, because if it were a work report it would be a much stronger document, there could be a vote here on accepting and not accepting the report, and that would give another stronger message to the Prosecutor's Office. This is about information about work we can take into account whether we want it or not. On three pillars of the state rests: the legislative, executive and judicial authority of which I will not say that these other two good pillars but this third, I mean the judicial authority, is the most unstable, that those working in the BiH Prosecutor's Office should listen to half of the state, those coming from the RS, most of the MPs who are here today and those who are thirdly in the Budget of the BiH institutions participating in the financing of your work. And I think you need to listen well here so you can see why people who come from the RS are not satisfied with the work of the prosecution. And when I'm talking about it, I'm just going to be based on the first page of the introduction that you listed a lot of things that I disagree with. "The BiH Prosecutor's Office is said to be a special body of BiH, established in order to be effective in achieving the authority of the BiH state." We have, in the period since the prosecution started to work, witnessed that it is not effective and that it does not know what its powers are, that you confirm it every day, and also in this report, which we can look at, in statistical terms, you are proving, that with the aim of respect for human rights and... that it has also not been done in its territory, I am talking about retrograde application of the law and the application of law which is not recognised anywhere in legal practice that you are not allowing people to call upon a law that is in his interest, in terms of the exercise of their human rights. More effective crime control in BiH? I ask you a question, as citizens ask us: Do you really think that crime in BiH is less and less every day? Strengthening the rule of law? We can talk about it in several segments, talk about selectivity, my colleagues talked about war crimes, and that, that selectivity is devastating for the reconciliation process in BiH, and I don't think that you have responded and are not at the height of the task. To talk about the real extent of the prosecution's work, making decisions, based on your accusations, the court, where some get in total over a thousand years, and others don't even process themselves, and not to mention justice. Here in this BiH for justice, only some can stand for it. Therefore, I would immediately reform that definition with you in the introduction that the BiH Prosecutor's Office is an unnecessary body of BiH, established in order to inefficiently exercise the authority of the state, violations of human rights and legality on its territory, inefficient repression of crime and... the principles of rule of law. You also wrote in that introduction in the same paragraph that 'the prosecution began to work on 27 January 2003 when the BiH Parliament adopted this law in the Official Messenger of 42/03 and although you stated that it was imposed through the High Representative on you on 6 August 2002', I ask you the question: Did the Prosecutor's Office start working when the law was passed here in Parliament or when the High Representative imposed it? I think he started working when the High Representative imposed him, not when he was confirmed here in Parliament. And it would be important for us to explain it to us because of some of the processes that are being conducted in the Constitutional Court. In one of the other segments, you said "the Prosecutor's Office... as an independent body, its work is based on the principle of independence, i.e. on all participants in the criminal proceedings, i.e. the state and all other bodies of the public authority, the international organisation". We've seen that the prosecution in 45 times past is at least independent, that under the great influence of international organisations and international factors here in BiH? You talked about the principle of unity of action, we are also here talking about whether you think that in an illegal way the collected information from international intelligence organisations in BiH can be used as legal information in pressing charges against others. And of course, here you have stated that the principle of hierarchy which implies responsibility for the work of all the BiH Prosecutor's Office employees to the attorney general, and we have seen that the assistant prosecutors do not respond to the attorney general, that the materials are being delivered to them and that there is no hierarchy in your work. These are the three things you listed here, and I can only conclude then in the end that the prosecution is a political body, under the influence of the international community that undermines BiH's sovereignty, because you are based on all these principles that I have added. So, I'm sorry this isn't a report, your report certainly wouldn't have passed, and we'll decide on the information on the work we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27201	I don't believe my colleague seriously thought the D.A. didn't need it. But here it is, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'd rather have given half my time to Mr. Jovičić, given that he lacked time in his discussion, and I'm going to try not to spend my time, and since he's probably, of all or most of us, about the issues he talked about more verifiedly about, it means. But here, I will, of course, be very brief or I will try to speak very briefly about this information. First of all, when we had one initiative a while ago... and had one group that dealt with the possibility of adopting the law on truth and reconciliation in BiH, then we talked to many NGOs and many associations and the basic reasons why people were not for this law is that they claimed they knew the truth and now someone wants to change their truth. You see, gentlemen, we all here think that we know the truth about what's been going on and I won't talk about it, we all think that we know who started, we all think that we know who's responsible, we all think that we know who the individuals are and, of course, we'd all be here from this place to judge all teams and they're all different depending on who's thinking about them and who thinks he knows who they are. So much for these discussions that have been held here on issues that do not directly concern this information about the prosecution's work. I'd like today when we discuss this information that I know, first of all, whether the Council of Ministers had this information on the agenda, given that there is a Justice Department. It would have been good to know if they were discussing and whether they received this information for knowledge. It would also be good to know if the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council discussed this information, given that they are the ones who appoint judges, prosecutors, etc., and whether they gave a positive opinion on this information. 46 And finally, I would like to have the opinion of the chief prosecutor or his position on two issues: the issue of foreign prosecutors' mandate and the issue of objections about selective approach, especially in the process of war crimes. Look, these are the two questions that we here today have to a significant extent, or we have a completely different or, here's a little bit of a different thought. I've been asking a question here a while ago, asking for the national structure of the persons convicted of war crimes. The answer I received from the prosecution was that the prosecution did not keep track of the national structure of the persons charged with war crimes, and I, which was also publicly published that structure, the national structure, got the impression that the Prosecutor's Office was particularly concerned about the national structure, but did not want to make it public. Now, that's what Mr. Jovičić was talking about and what I'm not going to talk about today, of course, because I think he said enough in that part and I'm ready to sign a part of his discussion on the issue. Of course, it is comforting that the Council of Ministers adopted this strategy. We know that this home once reached a conclusion on this, but it is not a good thing that we don't have what we're doing today under this strategy, even a particular document that the Council of Ministers should also adopt and about this strategy has not been adopted, and it has been six months. The task that the Prosecutor's Office has given itself in the coming period is to implement and work on the strategy. I hope that the D.A. will be extremely responsible to approach the implementation of this strategy, and that strategy, at least as far as I'm aware, gives an answer to some of these questions or dilemmas that we had here today. The issue of international judges and the impact of the international community, I must say that I am not satisfied with the efficiency of working on it. I, when I talk about it, am not talking from the position of international prosecutors or domestic prosecutors, but from the position of efficiency. Because watch out, if you take the information that 23 charges were filed in the last year, that the Court of 19 cases issued 16 verdicts, if you take only in the last year 659 cases against 1580 people, plus those before, then the question is seriously raised with this degree of efficiency when this job will be completed. Of course, we can make assumptions that these prosecutors who today or the deputies of the attorney general who today work as chiefs of these departments generally respond that the later this job is done, because the people in those places here are simply doing some work. Very often you can hear those for whom in their countries... that level of work would not be done. I am not sure that the departure of international judges would reduce the impact of the international community, i.e. prosecutors, would reduce the international community's influence on the prosecution. I'm even inclined to think that he'd be more effective then if they had an impact on domestic prosecutors if they didn't have these sides. So I'm even inclined to think that he would be more efficient and I don't think that should be the reason why someone should go or not go, but efficiency in doing the job. It should be a key thing whether someone should be in those places or not, did one of the prosecutors because he didn't do his job effectively removed from that place, changed, went somewhere else? Or, no matter if he went anywhere, but if he'd gone from there, he didn't. And there are still a lot of questions here that probably the chief prosecutor should answer, all with one goal, which is the goal Mr. Lozančić spoke of: let's see if we can help the D.A.'s office and how we can help the D.A.'s office to do its job in quality. So, no political pressure, but based on these remarks and these conclusions, this information, means working, that 47 is doing its job effectively. Of course, when I say effective work, I always, with this effective work, bind and what is just, means justly, etc. So, also taking into account the specificities of this country, because it is not possible for us in all segments to take care of the specificities of this country, except in this segment where these specificities are not relevant for this country. Here I was able to fit in in about 8.5 minutes, and if I had given Mr. Jovičić a minute, it might just seem to give me a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27203	Thank you for this savings. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž. I think he was next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27204	I thank you, Mr. President. A lot has been said already, and I'm going to say very briefly why I answered the word. So, some of these questions were touched by Mr. Živković, but I, unlike him, is his legitimate right to give an assessment of these issues, and I will not be giving the grades, but I will point questions to the chief prosecutor, Mr. Barašin, and I will list three things here. So, the D.A.'s office and jurisdiction. A special BiH body founded to effectively exercise BiH's competence. So I'm interested in his answer as the first person: To what extent is the prosecution as an institution... with the assigned powers really effective? So that's the first question. Secondly, the prosecution is the institution of sui generis. So, as part of BiH's prosecutorial structure, it insists as an independent institution. How much is that? Third, the BiH Prosecutor's Office as an independent body... is based on the principle of independence in relation to all participants in criminal proceedings as well as on state and all other bodies of public authorities and international organisations. I'm interested in his assessment of the Tužiteljsvo accomplishing this role and assignment and position, and only after that will I possibly comment and give some of my own grades. So I don't think there are any good grades in this report. In the end, as the D.A. sees the fulfillment of these powers. It would be good to either supplement this information or give these reviews through oral comments before we finally get to the bottom of this information. And one more thing. The State Strategy for War Crimes has already been mentioned here on several occasions, and we should certainly welcome all together that the Council of Ministers adopted the State Strategy, that within seven years everything should be done to make it happen, but I would remind you here why the State Strategy was adopted. So this is the existence of a large number of pending cases, this was the fundamental goal of the State Strategy. So, they're being solved. The lack of unique exotic data on the number and nature of open war crimes cases? We need to get some kind of dynamic to the extent that this strategy can be realized. 48 And the third thing and most important was to ensure equal treatment of all victims and witnesses in proceedings before all BiH courts. Now, that's a question of selection and imbalance. And here I will also ask for this assessment: To what extent will the chief prosecutor representing verticals, as is said there, this strategy contribute to ensuring equal treatment for all victims and witnesses? Here's how I don't talk here about the peoples, about the collectiveities, about the regions, about the individuals, but here's a given framework in this strategy that needs to be implemented. If implemented, we will give him support, or we will ask Parliament to do what needs to be done in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27205	Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given that there were more debates and that they had previously said one part of what I was going to say, I'm not going to debate for long just to say a few of my observations about this information. So, not with the report, but with this information we got from the D.A.'s office. By reading this information, we are seeing today, and I had that in mind before this debate started, that we are actually wasting a lot of words and a lot of time, and that there is no effective way that we can produce a way to change the way the prosecution works and methods work. And it shouldn't be done by this institution, but we have the right and we have the opportunity to say what we think about it. If the prosecution were not one of the institutions that is financed from the budget of this state that we vote for and we vote and thus provide the means for this institution to function and work amongst others, I would, believe me, today at this point in the agenda Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office prefers to get out of this room that I don't spend any time or a word of it. But since we will spend very much time and effort in December or early next year to announce the 2010 budget, and the BiH Prosecutor's Office will be there, so I think that the full debate and which was being held, I consider it necessary and something to say. At the beginning of this information, the purpose and purpose of why the BiH Prosecutor's Office was founded and, among other things, it is said that it was established that all citizens would have confidence and a prerequisite to achieve actual trust, a precondition for lasting peace, and a self-sustainable economy that would be able to attract and retain foreign and domestic investors. If we start only from that assumption, therefore why the prosecution was founded, it is evident from the public and also from the discussions that are being held here today that this institution has not responded at all to this objective and purpose and task, ultimately, from this intention produced by the task of this institution to work on it. Clearly, from previous discussions that I agree with that the most problematic thing in the results, i.e. the lack of results of the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work, is selectivity in the work and position of foreign prosecutors. As far as we RS lawmakers are concerned, the position of foreign prosecutors in this institution is very questionable, as is the debate and position and effect of foreign judges in the Court of Justice of BiH. It would be kind of an inseparable story of the prosecution... from the story of the BiH Court, but since it's not on the agenda, I'll focus on this institution alone. 49 As the two main and most important chapters in this information, a chapter on the war crimes and organised crime department has been given. As far as this first one is concerned, it is clear and clear in one part of BiH, which is in the RS, that it is expressed and fully present in the action of selectivity in accessing cases, as well as the realization of certain cases. That this is the way the information that is being placed in public from this institution is said to be the most frequent lawsuits, the most frequent prosecutions... in the BiH Court of Justice precisely cases prosecuted by the Prosecutor's Office against Srbin from the RS. We have pointed to this and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has pointed to such a fact on several occasions, but it is obvious that the Prosecutor's Office has been acting on that people's mountain, and you have been doing so in the downside, and we have a situation today. I'll uzeću just one example, someone mentioned here today and said don't say that, for Tuzla you said, there's no one right to make certain findings and conclusions until the Court finds out who committed the war crimes. We know very well about this city of Sarajevo that a large number of people were killed, and we know reliably that among these victims was also a large number of Srbin who were killed. An MP from this home who recently visited a television station in Bijeljina when asked about the victims in Sarajevo said: well, you know, there were not a large number of victims, there were about 100 Srbin who were killed in Sarajevo, of which... most of them were killed by those Srbin who were reportedly up on the hill above Sarajevo and thus they were killed. Certain information and data suggest that more than 6,000 Srbin were killed in Sarajevo, and now, of course, the question of what role and task were there, in fact, which is the effect of the prosecution's 100 to 6,000 is a huge gap. Whether it was 100 or 1,100 or 6,100, it was the prosecution's task to determine, and they have the exact name of the suspect as determined, as accused, as accused. This has not happened, and of course, I think it is pointless to speak and comment on the BiH Prosecutor's Office as long as it works like this and behaves like this. And we can see that at the end of this information, they're looking for an increase in their next year's funds to about nine million. I think all MPs, when we establish next year's budget, need everything about a BiH institution to follow the criteria of who did what and what their effects and results were in previous work. Seeking to increase funds for this kind of inefficientness and this kind of non-productivity and no action on the goal and plan to establish trust amongst people in this country, they have, contrary to their selective approach and have done even more with their activities to mistrust and deepen this mistrust among the peoples of BiH. And of course, you could say a lot more about this information, a lot more remarks. I will only say for a short while that the BiH Prosecutor's Office is the right example and is the real proof that every way is to fight and reject any request to establish the 'The Supreme Court of BiH', as some advocate it in this country, Bosnia. Here's an example of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and an example of the Court of Justice, how bad these institutions are and what their results are and what their bad effects are. And that is why, if it is in... a call to this current one, surely RS lawmakers will be in every way against the establishment of such an institution, but also in any subsequent period believe that you will not in any way and under any pressure force to accept such a new BiH institution, looking at what these two are like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27207	Well, it's certain that no one will force it. We'll do it together willingly. Bakir Izetbegović, replica. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27208	Well, I'm that MP from this Parliament who was there in Bijeljina and said about what my colleague Milica said. I did say it was working, that truly Bosniak criminals here in Sarajevo killed over 100 Srbin, that's a fact. However, by letter and by number, the name can be named, it is over 2,000 Srbin, of which more than 200 Serbian children killed by grenades. It is well-known whose mountains are from these mountains. That's right. Another thing, more Bošnjak were killed in one hour of this Srebrenica genocide than the BiH Army killed others for the entire war. And that's so, and I don't know what you're pulling these topics for, for the hundredth time, to make these things come to terms. It's not us. It's the UN. Their commission found that Bošnjak committed about 3% of the crimes in this country in four years. And it's normal for them to be processed that much. So now I don't count the other sides as much as I need to participate in those other 97%. I don't know what you're pulling. In that story, you'll draw a thicker end.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27209	Milica Marković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27210	Well, I don't know, Mr. Izetbegović, who's going to get the fat end, if you're already talking to that vocabulary in this country. And what you said now and all of what we said earlier leads only to the division of this country, and not to it in such a way as you communicate and talk, it will not reach the EU but will not remain in this composition in which it is now. And you're asking me why I'm withdrawing these topics, because these are exactly the topics about the prosecution and their work, that's the matter they were supposed to be dealing with, and they weren't dealing with. Not to mention that in any of the previous questions, you never even answered me, you answered one that I received two days ago, and a few months ago, when I said, asked that the D.A.'s office to plead on that, on the findings and on the fact that the disbanded AIDS organisation is still affecting and selectively affecting individual prosecutors in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and that the Prosecutor's Office pleads that way - I never got an answer to that. Let's not expand the subject now, the other and the other. If you think that this way, that you only think that your people were a victim, and the other one or two people were terrorists and aggressors in this country, then you don't think well of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27211	Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27212	Let me tell you, I told you in the motion of the arguments that you'd pass less, that you'd draw a thicker end, by moving those arguments. And my people, a normal thing, have committed crimes, but here they say... so the UN Commission says it's 3%, Milica. My people didn't kill 12,000 sons in two days, you know. Here, I won't say again what people did, but it's not mine. And if he's done 3% of the crime, it's logical that he's answering so much to that court and I don't know what you're angry about and what that has to do with the European path, and I don't know what you mean by that AIDS or what I have to do with that AIDS. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27213	I've got Branko Dokić here, a replica, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27214	It is a replica. Mr. Chairman, it would have been better if it hadn't, but this is really inappropriate from Mr. Izetbegović, and this is really a retreat, and I'm not going to say what for now. His finding that someone will draw a thicker end, I understand as a threat in this House, and it is indeed inappropriate, and here is a very well-meaning warning that we are not having a debate, that the data that does not stand here for two days 12 thousand etc., etc., I do not like to say the full sentences of these messages. Completely, completely incorrect! If we turn around to deal with these questions, then Bog help us, and all those who have chosen us here to represent them and lead this country forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27215	Here's what I'm going to take advantage of. I'm going to abuse one, I'm going to say, an incorrect allegation. So I'm absolutely certain that this country and its future are absolutely not dependent on these replicas here and these statements of the people sitting here. So her future absolutely does not depend on it, she has and she will be safe. So we're going, and here's the line, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27216	Mr. Chairman, I know you might be a little upset about this, but I have to say this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27217	Bog forbid, go ahead, I'm very patient.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27218	Well, you're trying to hold a session to achieve a result, I understand you completely, I mean, I understand and I support you in that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27219	Šefik, if anyone doesn't need one, I don't need one.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27220	Oh, there you go. I have to say this. So, I ask you, the prosecution and the prosecution, beginning with The Hague, and then the BiH Prosecutor's Office, entity, cantonal prosecutors, they prosecute those who are suspected or found to have committed war crimes. Do not enter an ethnic element into that kind of discussion. And all this discussion was created in response to an attempt to include an ethnic element in the work of these institutions. The prosecution of none of which I counted nor can nor, 52 nor should it have any ethnic element in mind. His oscillation is an act of execution that has the mark of a war crime and a person who is in one way or another in connection with it. And we're because of this story being pulled, these are being processed this much, they're being processed as much, we're in a position to talk about this. Let's let people do their job as prescribed by law, and every attempt to bring an ethnic element into this is actually to try to politicise the work of these institutions. When we have that kind of access, we won't even have this kind of discussion. And what has arisen is actually the result of the answer to the discussions that have tried to include in all this an ethnic element which is devastating for the independence of the judiciary and which is devastating for the truth and justice in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27221	Sadik Ahmetović, replica. Here, I'm asking you to hold back a little bit, let's go back.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27222	I'll try to go in the direction of not challenging the replicas, but I think this parliament should go in the direction to help the prosecution work so that we don't discuss this with me in the future, so that we have as quickly as possible a clean up the situation as we have war criminals and who is a war criminal and who isn't. So, I think that's the way, that any of us here are not protecting anyone, it doesn't matter what his name is when it comes to war crimes. I'm asking you in that direction, it's the best way for this country to deal with these stories that we have here in this room right now. So to help BiH prosecutors have more capacity, have more money, have more space to deal with a huge problem called war crimes cases in BiH as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27223	Milorad Živković, a replica or an incorrect quote, will tell us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27224	Thank you. The replica is in the sense that the D.A.'s office isn't here today on the wallpaper just because of the selectivity in its work on war crimes. It's here on the wallpaper because even his independence that should be basically work is not an independence that so far at this age the prosecution has proved to be such. It turns out it's actually more or less politically dependent. In the very information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office on the first page, here's to saying that I skipped to say that, he states that 'the establishment of the Prosecutor's Office is the result of the efforts provided for in the Declaration of the Peace Implementation Council of December 1998, so-called. The Madrid Declaration. He states that the result of a declaration, a political act, is one body such as the PIC, and I will remind you that PIC is not an authority or body provided for by an international contract. There are no signatories or other parties to the Dayton Agreement in its membership, thus there is no formal authority for the implementation of peace in BiH. 53 I am talking about the PIC that actually continued to work after the conference in the former Yugoslavia was shut down, just something that BiH did not ask for, but the High Representative put it in the list of someone to be reported, and then it became an organ that gave guidance, political decisions and based on which all BiH authorities should work, and even the BiH Prosecutor's Office. We are here talking about that the BiH Prosecutor's Office is not an independent body, but is politically dependent on the international community directly. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27225	Let's get back to reporting for discussion. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27226	I think that, in the context of this discussion, we should try to return to some real, objective plane and remind all MPs in this house that the BiH Prosecutor's Office was founded in 2003 by the will of representatives of the BiH citizens and of all the peoples of BiH when the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH was passed. And so, we have a prosecution that acts as an independent body that should base its work on the principle of independence in relation to all the participants in the criminal proceedings. What is the prosecution's criminal jurisdiction, it's also prescribed by law, and I wouldn't talk about it. I would first refer to the question of the work of this Special War Crimes Department. In fact, I think it would be good to speed up the work group's work group's work on preparing 'State's strategy for working on cases and resolving war crimes issues'. We still don't have these state strategies, and we have really objective problems on this plan where we have a large number of pending cases, we have a situation that there are no uniquely exact data, we have a case of unequal court practice, uncoordinated criteria for assessing the sensitivity and complexity of certain cases, etc. I think it would be good for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly but also for the BiH Council of Ministers to assist and strengthen the Special Department for Organized Crime, Economic Crime and Corruption. This report makes it very clear what certain problems are in the work of this department, of insufficient efficiency in collecting evidence, insufficient human resources, lack of office material etc., etc. It would really be good to think in one responsible way about how and how the prosecution should remove this interference and make it more effective to perform its role as prescribed by the Prosecutor's Law. I must also remind here that when it comes to the participation of the Prosecutor's Office in the reform processes of BiH and this report, it is said that in the process of establishing effective mechanisms and procedures for the confiscation of unlawfully acquired benefits, as well as rational management and availability of confiscated assets, including active participation in the proposal and in the amendments to the legal and other regulations governing this area, we have objective problems. So once again, here's the SDP Club has been talking about this today, it would be good to think about that SDP bill we've been proposing for years, which is about confiscation of illegally acquired benefits and assets. 54 I must say that, if there were any dilemmas about the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the judicial authorities, whatever they want, what intentions, etc., I think that all these dilemmas were removed yesterday by the Prime Minister, Mr Dodik, who openly told the entire domestic and international public yesterday that he would like the High Representative to repeal the conclusions of the National Assembly and as soon as he leaves, quote him 'we will immediately return to those conclusions'. So, the Prime Minister of one of the two entities made it clear yesterday what he thinks about the Prudish Process, what he thinks about the prosecution and what he wants with the prosecution, he made it clear why the foreign prosecutors bother him. So, the High Representative should go, the foreign prosecutors should go and then go into the decommissioning of the state. I think it's good that Dodik said it yesterday, because after this statement, nothing will ever be the same in BiH as yesterday. If there have been certain doubts about what is wanted in BiH, in the EU, in the United States, at other important international addresses, I think there is no doubt after this. That's why I'd like to suggest three conclusions. First conclusion: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives expects the BiH Prosecutor's Office to continue doing its work professionally and responsibly." The second conclusion: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives as the largest body of BiH's legislative authority stands at the view that all BiH citizens should be the same before the law and that the law should apply the same, regardless of national, religious or political membership." Third conclusion: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will not have any effect on or pressure on the work of the Prosecutor's Office, and expects the same authority to treat and end any judicial procedure legally and legally prescribed norms as well as to resist any attempt of political or any other influence.' I expect these three conclusions to be adopted by a large parliamentary majority. And why do I say that? Because I have here, and here you can see, these three conclusions are proposed by the SNSD Club, here's the exact protocold date in the last two years, when these three conclusions the SNSD Club has proposed. So here's not even two years, I expect them to support their conclusions, so let's express our clear position on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27227	Here you can take a break. Savo Erić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27228	Thank you very much. Here, and I will try to shorten my discussion, respecting that most of the debaters have said what I think both outside and within this agenda point, taking into account these conclusions made by Mr Bećirović. They're leaderial and I really don't see like all the missing stories that are beyond the agenda. We accept this information, it doesn't mean anything to us to vote or not to vote against this, everything goes well. We've wasted time turning the story around to see how we think and where we are. But what I'd like to draw attention to to these people and to all of us: we all have salaries seven or eight times bigger than those who now expect 55 to happen here and they're eight months out, and we're the moon, you know, so until we rewind two, he's 16. That's the problem, isn't it, both the prosecutors and us. While we're still 15 years away from discussing who killed who, where who was waiting for whom, which is very important, and even more dangerous where are those who pushed themselves into it, who paid for it, why did it come to this, then we'll lose another 15 years, and most likely that our children will have a quadruple debt that we have to pay back, in charge, so I'd like to try to get back to that objectivity, independence, justice, etc., all the epithets we used, and what I would advise these people to try to give us information, really, when they think and how much money it takes, how many personnel to solve, let those questions. Why have some questions not been resolved, is it a paper problem that comes to them or is it not possible to move on? That's one thing. What you gentlemen can do in that section is about the funds they spent to see what we gave them, they didn't do anything to people and they won't do for the next five years. How much money is it to buy so many sheep and tell them, people, watch the sheep, sit at home, it's your only way out. I think there's some reality about that story. And then in this report, you know, there's all the stories, we do, something happens, you have a self-sustainable economy. This economy has gone to a dead end. She can't take it anymore. And the question arises where our children will go and what will our children discuss. The goals that we intend to achieve here from various parties, parties and people behind us, means different organizations, we are all aware of it in some way, but we expect that our current will win,... our party and our leaders or our foreign mediators, should not be ashamed of it because we have really passed into one obedience that is evident. The question arises whether we can get out of this darkness and therefore ask these people who sit here, especially you, the chairman, that you and your workers try to give us a question about how to, and why, in the future, separate these funds, or if we come in October or April how we're used to sharing funds: if we don't vote on these issues, what happens to those MPs who haven't voted and allocated funds to the prosecution to deal with it, because they are either against it or hiding behind something. So, here's the smartest thing to do here. Thank you, so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27229	Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'm going to try in this discussion that maybe some replicas that I could instigate to some in one give and that'll probably be a shorter time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27231	And you will produce a series of new replicas. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27232	I don't think so. I don't think I'm going to produce. I'm going to try not to mention names. Here today we were talking about the work of the D.A. that was presented to us through this information that needs to serve us with knowledge. And then in this paper we touched on many topics which are perfectly normal because this information if the D.A. wants to, and I hope so, to learn from possibly today's discussion of their work, to do something for the next time and advance, and not to be their report on the work, or information, sorry, about the work and the following year suffered such discussions and discussions, then this will be good. If she's just formally delivered to us in terms of information, then it's something that doesn't make sense, but here I hope that's the first thing. We talked a lot today, but here's all I'm gonna say. A fellow MP presented the information that we have problems with the crimes of war crimes, and that we also have problems with organised crime. That, in my opinion, can't be compared because one can't go into one basket with another. If nothing else, for one reason, is that it is enough to point out that war crime has been interrupted in '95 by the end of war conflicts, and that organized crime has been going on since ever since; since humanity exists until today, it will last both tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, etc., it is a permanent thing and we have to keep an eye on it all the time, although war crime is something that can and perhaps should have ended until today. That what needs to be finished is evidence that, and the assumption is,... many people who had grounds to be prosecuted for the crime of war crimes have avoided natural causes or any other death if they didn't naturally die. That's the point of why someone is trying to evenly establish suspicions of war criminals and that someone doesn't avoid that legal time distance. I expect the D.A. to finally tell us what it is, and that's what many other colleagues have already said, but here I will remind you once again that this is the most important thing to me, specifically, what they need to help us avoid next year's debate on their information, and especially here today can be talked about the dissatisfaction of the processing of war crimes. A colleague, Šefik Džaferović, said to let the prosecution work on its own independent position, to do as prescribed, I fully agree with that. But there's one problem. It has been said that the prosecution is working to establish the rule of law, etc., so it says 'in which all citizens will trust when the conditions for lasting peace as well as for a self-sustainable economy', etc., etc. Then it is said below 'the principle of independence against all participants in criminal proceedings, the principle of unity', etc. From today's discussion, it can be said that all citizens in this country are not satisfied with the work of the Prosecutor's Office, because here it has proved through these discussions that they are not most satisfied in this single segment, which I recommend that the Prosecutor's Office try to fix and do justice and that citizens are satisfied, which is the processing of war crimes. If the citizens were satisfied with that part of their work, we probably wouldn't need to discuss this much time today, but I think that the prosecution as a serious institution will carefully consider today's discussion and take some lessons out of it and that it will not experience that next year also in this style and with such needs we are discussing the information that comes to us. If that happens, and 57 has happened since I've been in this term that about every year we have the same remarks on this report on the work of the prosecution, and then it seems a little strange to me that they don't try to make these shortcomings or, let me say, those remarks from the MPs that we make to the citizens don't take away, or if they're not able to remove it if they have a particular problem or an obstacle to them being removed, that they simply ask for help, and as far as I remember, they haven't asked this Parliament for help, even though they can ask for it unless they've asked for help in terms of approval of the larger budget. That's it, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27233	I've still got Hadji Jovan Mitrović reported, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27234	Dear Chairman, I will be very brief, especially since my colleagues have said a lot about this information. I personally believe that BiH should have the prosecution and would be happy that the information in terms of it is truly independent and that it works as an independent body. Unfortunately, in this country, a lot of the organs that we have and that pretend to be independent, to function independently, are essentially dependent and I don't think it's any secret. They depend on what representatives of the international community say. As long as we rely and look for solutions and more and more to be solved by representatives of the international community, we will be in this situation and we will bicker over important things, important information that the authorities here present to us in this House. The key here, in my opinion, is two things and important, and this is the War Crimes Department that my colleagues have said. I really think that if it's an independent prosecution, in no case should there be selectivity in the work of this department, and I come from a part of the space of one that I'm sure and knowing a man simply who's been sentenced to some five years in prison that wasn't that man who was supposed to be in court at all. And there will be many such people, and key people will avoid it, so that the future may not be the light of this country because the prosecution is not independent, because it is independent, because the representatives of the international community so wish and so will. And I think, if he wants to get away from it, although this is Parliament, if Parliament is independent and should be independent, it should be made clear and loud about what should be said to this BiH Prosecutor's Office in terms of human strength, in terms of finance and funds to work on this issue too, so that there is no selectivity so that there are no winners, nor defeated, but simply to match those who have committed war crimes from all three nations. The other thing, when it comes to organised crime, economic crime and corruption since 2005, is that a colleague earlier said there was and there was a crime, but it seems to me that this crime has extended, not to say, war crime in another way. It is interesting that the prosecution is pressing charges in some of the times that a person once expects, the public expects to actually do that part of the job to the end, but it stops, and it stops for reasons because representatives of the international community use the prosecution to reach a goal. What's the point? Is it more important that what the international community is looking for or is more important what we want here in this country, if we want to live and if we want to make BiH work? There are cases among high-ranking politicians that have been charged, there are cases where they have been convicted, and today there are still policies, and that is what concerns me as a man from the 58 policies that are coming. I don't see any security in this country, and I think there's supposed to be this BiH Prosecution, to create security for me, that there's no crime here, there's economic crime flourishing in the entire BiH area. Charges are being filed against the president of the government and are eventually standing and waiting. It's a stick and carrot game. Who does that? For this reason, this information can be accepted like this, but it cannot be accepted that this is an independent organ. He is not independent, he is dependent and many authorities, so unfortunately, I think that one part of Parliament and many of the things that Parliament has brought, many of the authorities that have voted to function in favour of this state, are in the hands of some others, not in the hands of politics and this people and what people expect of this whole thing. That's why I expect the D.A.'s office to really tell him what he needs, to simply work out funds and personnel, so that it's possible that these problems are solved as soon as possible when it comes to war crimes. When it comes to economic crime, it is something that is suffocating us in the entire BiH area today. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27235	And I still have Mr. Drago Kalabić's report in extensions. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27236	Here, since I didn't have any more replicas, this was more like a replica, but there was a discussion left, and I'm going to use it to my right. Since I was informed that Mr Bećirović had one inspired discussion, and I, too, was too bad I missed it, but here I assumed that he was talking about Tuzla, about the twilight of the Tuzla judiciary, what that Kučević was doing in Tuzla, what is happening at the University of Tuzla where is the twilight of education and justice. I thought he complained about a situation in his town that had become unsustainable because of the lack of justice and the prosecution and that he had expressed his indignation here because of what was happening to his fellow citizens. That kind of scandal at one university, that Tuzla was having, I don't think anybody was hoping? I thought he was talking about it. However, I was informed that he was talking about something else that I can see as a complete instrumentisation of the prosecution, that he was giving political qualifications in terms of the need for the SDP to be eliminated by political opponents. And I heard that Mr. Dodik was at the centre of his attention, which is quite clear that the SDP's prosecution in this country serves exclusively to eliminate political opponents, that it does not serve what in all other countries. His desire to remain foreign judges in the prosecution, prosecutors, judges, for example, would be very interesting if we were asked to sit in the SDP presidency for two Social Democrats from Germany, from, I don't know, so Mr Dodik is also an internationalist and to see how you would make decisions and what would be the vote in the SDP presidency with foreign representatives of the Social Democrats. Well, let's see if we can do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27237	Glad to get back to this information after all. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27238	Well, we'll get back to Information. This is exactly the way we're here because obviously the information we all understand is one way and we're trying to get this SNSD's conclusion, so the SNSD is acting in principle. We are always when we formed institutions, when we spoke we ask that these institutions work in the interests of the citizens of BiH, but why is there a problem for us at the moment when we say that the institutions we supported did not respond to the task. They didn't answer the question! And then we have a problem. So we can, we have the right to support it, then we are Democrats, then we participate in everything. However, when we need to criticise, analyze, then we are deprived of here and the democratic right of any analysis or even the right to determine ourselves about anything. I don't think there's a problem here in Mr. Bećirović, but I think the problem is with the D.A.'s office. The D.A. brought himself into this situation. You saw what happened that night when the D.A.'s office wanted to turn the situation to its advantage with that case in the Court of Justice of BiH, when the media did what they did and when the prosecutors showed that they could share justice out of bed, which I completely approve of. He has in bed the authority to share justice and he used it out of bed. After horrible images on all the media, it was then shown that the prosecution could act, it turned out it could work because they were afraid of what the morning would bring. And then he remembered in bed that he had the authority of this, based on laws and regulations that he was called upon to share justice with a criminal. And he used that authority. And then the next few days he wanted to show up as the prosecution's success. No, it's the opposite of the D.A.'s twilight because in a thousand other cases he didn't take advantage of it, because there was no media, because there were no scary pictures, and then it could have been different. Because he can use the credit for slapping a criminal who was so rude and cruel, but let's say in privatization where that poor worker brings you tens of thousands of pages of material, where they bring you MPs, where they bring you everyone else where the object is formed, where a group of people have come to an inappropriate wealth, with the help of someone other than a judicial institution. If he can stop Tasim Kučević out of bed, who can convince me that he can't stop someone else from his office. I mean, it obviously didn't happen. Only for fear of owning a position was it acted by the principle of law and justice. So I'm saying, all these reactions, all these attempts by the SDP to abuse the prosecution in a political sense, they may even have a right, if the institution allows them to. Obviously, such behaviour will allow for instrumentalisation, and that is, it is one of the most important institutions in BiH and if it, and obviously has not passed the exam, if it does not pass the exam, we are in trouble.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27239	Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27240	One rectification of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27241	Mr. Bećirović, I've been informed that you had two, and that's Secretary of the House. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27242	All right.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27243	I'm sorry. Eh, here I seem to be lucky... I just want to remind you that Mr. Lazar Prodanović is right and the others are right, so let me remind you that there is a replica next. Here you go, Selime.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27244	What I'm saying is that as far as the prosecution and the Tuzla judiciary are concerned, we agree deeply with Mr. Kalabić. It's not the SDP thing. We didn't mention it here either. And the other thing, which means not to attend the session, so they're giving you the wrong idea. Mr. Bećirović did not mention the foreign judge. So you get misinformation. And if you can, be patient and sit while the debate is being held, so that you can really participate in replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27245	So, I'm closing the debate. No more reports, replicas, etc. Of course, we have an obligation, Mr. Barašanin gave me a signal that he wanted to make some kind of comment. Of course, I suppose without ambition to answer all the questions, if nothing, this information has caused great attention to MPs and great interest and a great number of discussions and appropriate and inappropriate. Here you go, Mr. Barašanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27246	The Honorable chairman, members of the working presidency, respected MPs, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, blames everyone and everyone in the world, and also in BiH seems to be the prosecutor and prosecutor's office whose head I am. From one part of today I've heard discussions here, I wouldn't want to comment on them, and I'd have something to say to you and talk to you for the next five days. But I'm not going to use this on this occasion, I'm going to abuse this pay phone, but I'm just going to brief you on the information. The prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office submits 'Information on Labour'. That's one brief piece of information only about the prosecution's work, which you had commented on. In the good part, you've moved away from this information. The report on our work which is much larger with various analyses and indicators is delivered only to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. And to me, as chief prosecutor, every department in the D.A.'s office delivers. It was a question of why the prosecution was working, as it was founded, whether it was under political influence and whether it was under international influence? The BiH prosecutor's office is working on the basis of a law passed in this parliament. You gentlemen have passed this law, established it, and we are working under that law. In addition to this law, we use the Code of Criminal Procedure, Criminal Law, and other laws we use in our work. 61 The BiH Prosecutor's Office is a sui generis institution. He's got a home component, he's got an international component. The Stone of Facilitation of Today's Discussions and this information, or the Information of the Prosecutor's Office, which I have not worked with, is one collective body, a commission established by the Attorney General's Office. Every word is a vagina, well-analyzed with true statistics. We didn't lie, we didn't bring anything wrong. We just entered what we knew. Foreign prosecutor's term of office, question. I am a unanimous advocate, because I know very well that their presence in the BiH Prosecutor's Office is still needed. I'm not going to explain why some people liked it or didn't like it, from your discussions, I'm not going to be smart because there are much smarter and more experienced people here and more educated than I am, but when I listen to your discussions as an MP, a representative of the people, it's clear that we're not matured ourselves that we can regulate certain things and process because we don't want to look the truth into our eyes. Crimes have happened and crimes should be handled by anyone who has committed a crime must answer. Let's not put the blame on the collectiveities, then the crisis headquarters, on command responsibility, on middle personnel, on individuals, each will respond at their own level, as the law has said, we just have to be aware and the law when it says something and says something, we have to have proof. Gentlemen, many objects are open, they are a stumbling block, and when it comes to processing such an object, we have no evidence. And, BiH since the war, here, there's a phenomenon, and the phenomenon is a witness. I'm active as chief prosecutor working on active cases in investigations. Well, it's art to draw a statement from someone today. You must also be aware of these situations. We respect victims, various associations. You've seen lately that while I was also acting as chief prosecutor and now since February, the chief prosecutor has changed the method and way of working. I don't contact the representatives of these associations and various NGOs. That's why I have my reasons. Maybe next year it'll be minus. However, the BiH Prosecutor's Office must co-operate at a given time with any, including a criminal, in order to obtain certain data. I say we're independent in our work. In what way, as well as anyone who understands independence, that is a huge and philosophical issue, as well as a political question. And everything, politics and law are philosophy and each other is leaned upon. I've heard a few questions here, as well as good discussions. It was a matter of the State Strategy. I was president of a task force who worked for a year and something on the State Strategy. She was adopted by the Council of Ministers. The supervisory authority, the Supervisory Board, has been formed. That Supervisory Board and the supervisory authority had three meetings. Yesterday, there was a meeting with 16 top prosecutors in BiH. The work information here is only submitted to you by the chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I'm chief prosecutor of 37 prosecutors, 28 of whom are domestic and nine international. And my D.A.'s budget is 8 million and 50,000 KM. That's what you adopted and voted for our budget. But what about the other 15 prosecutors? The BiH Prosecutor's Office, you can see... in this information there are the exact number of cases on which it works, and we should only do the most complex and complex objects. Where are the entity and cantonal courts? We were founded in 2003, the War Crimes Department began to work in 2005 and to this day you see how many persons and persons have been charged and processed and how many indictments have been filed. It's true that six teams work, and the sixth team only works for Srebrenica and it's all about complicated items. I don't even allow selectivity. Members of my people, I'm a Srbin, and I'm not ashamed of it, they're always complaining to me, and that's what's heard today that the BiH Prosecution is selective. Well, I'm in my 62st job as Attorney General of the War Crimes Department, and while I'm chief prosecutor, I've filed six charges. One is against Srbin, two against Hrvat, the rest are Bošnjak. And you know how I went through the media, like I'm doing to cover up some big fish. What's with the big fish? They have, they have parliamentary questions from you, as far as specific matters are concerned, and they know what these questions are. However, an investigation cannot be opened and a transfer can be initiated when a certain person submits information on a single piece of paper and a few copies of CD recordings on which we do not have an original. What kind of prosecutor is going to go to court and prosecute someone? The evidence must be collected. We know that the war was, the evidence disappears, and what we're doing is one, in my opinion, a huge success and proof that the BiH Prosecutor's Office has achieved the purpose of its existence. I won't take your time anymore, I just have a proposition. One of the MPs said, when it comes to organised crime, that you did not pass a law on the confiscation of illegally acquired property. Gentlemen, prosecutors and judges, and especially prosecutors, you must put tools in your hands. A criminal has, in particular, to pass such a law on the confiscation of illegally acquired property and to form special agencies to do so. Then, it is necessary to reorganise the prosecutor's organisation in BiH,... many will not accept it because it is all related to constitutional changes. We don't have a single command system. Gro cases of organised crime at lower levels of war crimes are on entity, county and cantonal prosecutions, and I can't order anything from him. I wish you were present yesterday at that meeting, as all district attorneys and cantonal prosecutors at some point want to transfer responsibility to us. Well, we're not the almighty either. And we are men of flesh and blood, prosecutors of the BiH Prosecutors. And these results we've achieved for me as chief prosecutor are satisfactory. You can argue that, but on another occasion and in every correct conversation and debate, I can give you arguments why I think so. Then Mr. Representative Raguž had a question of efficiency of the Sui Genis institutions and independence. I think I answered you, I don't see him, all three questions asked in my previous discussion. And I have to tell you this, and I'm done with this. I'm not gonna take up any more of your time. While I am the head of this institution, the BiH Prosecutor's Office will not be an instrument for seeking out nobody's debts, nor a means to implement a day-long policy. Whoever committed the crime will be processed and negotiated. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27247	So, I thank Mr. Barašanin. Of course, we have for the first time... this kind of communication with the newly elected BiH prosecutor, so maybe we should have a little bit of understanding in the way he communicated to the MPs and to this Parliament and its roles, etc. Parliament has the right to ask, etc. So, as long as we hold to the independence of the prosecution, and this is one of the pillars of power, so the legislative authority directly elected by the people, and no need to be disturbed. Here, in this way I conclude the debate on this item of the agenda and ask for patience to do the next item of the agenda, for the simple reason, Mr. Živković had a business intervention. I see he's angry, I didn't consider it necessary to give him, but here comes a man, of course in terms of, probably not satisfied with the way I've commented on 63 ways of addressing this House. He believes... that this has been in some way an abuse of this pay phone and underestimation of Parliament's role. But here, I conveyed, hopefully, what he wanted to say and it turns out I made it impossible for him. Okay. So we have a point 20, a new point for today's session of the agenda. No, no, please, Mr. Špirić waits two and a half hours for Mr. Dolić and our decision to attend this item of the agenda, because Mr. Dolić has not prepared any written material for this part of the agenda. Of course, Mr. Dolić, that's all true. So point 20. Ad. 20. BiH Council of Ministers Report on Realising Obligations from Roadmap for visa liberalisation for BiH citizens I'm opening a debate. Here, Mr. Dolić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27249	Gentlemen chairing, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, first of all, the moment this House adopted my proposal, it is no longer a proposal from Dolić, it is a proposal from this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27250	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27251	And I thank President Špirić for finding the patience to wait, here, as you said, two and a half hours. I have found the motive for proposing this agenda point in the fact that the submission of a monthly report by the BiH Council of Ministers on the implementation of the visa liberalisation commitments from the Roadmap for BiH citizens is the commitment of the Council of Ministers to which we committed them to the conclusion of the 50th session of this house two and a half months ago. The second reason is that the report on the implementation of BiH's visa liberalisation obligations for BiH citizens in Brussels has not received a positive assessment and that it was decidently said that BiH is not fulfilling the commitments made from the Roadmap. I think these two reasons and the disappointment of the citizens of BiH are, I guess, sufficient reason for the Council of Ministers to submit the requested information to Parliament and to the MPs, and then to the citizens of BiH, which is why we should all sit here. 64 In a request like this, I had no ambition either for personal promotion or to call someone guilty in advance: why does BiH not fulfil its obligations from the Map of Ways. My motives therefore went in the direction of the Council of Ministers to fulfil its obligations both to Parliament and to the citizens of BiH. From the reactions of EU and international community representatives, following a negative assessment by Brisel, it was unequivocally said and warned that BiH is not fulfilling its commitments from the Map of Ways. The reaction of those who have been identified after the assessment of Brisel turns out that no one is to blame for BiH's failure to perform and its commitments or for being guilty, under quotes, of the other. I have no intention of suggesting any conclusions to this home, because it obviously doesn't have much effect, but from the mouth of the most responsible people I wanted to hear the reasons for it and when your reasons will be removed. I don't want citizens on the street and in the media to spit on me and those who don't have the mechanisms to change these things, except they have the opportunity to invite those in whose hands these mechanisms are to use them or explain why they don't use them. I think that we MPs and citizens of this country have the right to know, therefore, that they would recognize the culprits for the isolation and humiliation of the citizens of this country in an attempt to become Evropljanin and decent people. We have a chance to quickly remove obstacles to visa liberalisation only by quick implementation of the remaining obligations, and I wanted to hear whether the Council of Ministers and members of the parliamentary majority's commitment to do so quickly, because it is entirely up to them. Finally, I thank my fellow Members for supporting this point in the agenda of today's session of this house, and I sincerely hope that we will all make further efforts to facilitate and restore dignity to the citizens who have been violated, among other things, and the visa regime of EU citizens' countries for BiH. It's definitely up to us and in our hands. And if we go deaf about it, then we are the ones who humiliate our own citizens and the guilty, indeed, we have no right to seek in anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27252	No one's reported. Mr. Špirić was waiting to give some information. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27253	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, honourable ministers, chief prosecutor, esteemed guests, media representatives, I think it's actually not good – of course, I'm always for having good communication and to appreciate each other, I have good communication with the kolegij and yesterday we sat down, we talked – and I don't think the Council of Ministers is the body you can actually call whenever you want, ask for information, but is unable to give you information written. I can speak as Nikola Špirić today, and I cannot speak on behalf of the Council of Ministers because, when it comes to liberalisation and the Council of Ministers, we must have information that is information from the Council of Ministers. Those are business provisions. I haven't been invited to this point since today, so I got word from the cabinet and I want to be with you and share my vision of where we are. But I expected, too, you know that my main motto and cabinet is to achieve everything that citizens 65 BiH are doing at the end of the year and early next year on white Schengen and that I have correspondence with Brussels, to give it together in line with countries of the region that have made stronger progress. My kolega Rizvo is like the president of the Interresor Working Group outside and he talks about these things and you know that last time we had that report. We have a monthly progress report tomorrow, which would be the subject, which would come to the session of the Parliamentary Assembly Council. I must tell you that seven days ago, I addressed the College of Both Homes, informed them that the Council of Ministers did what this Parliament did not do, passed the laws, and asked Parliament to take them or leave them by procedure in this Parliamentary Assembly, asked both homes to meet parliamentaryly and offer a resolution of BiH's commitment to EU membership, because if these laws are adopted, it will be assessed by a strong progress in achieving the conditions for visa liberalisation. I don't know if you have this resolution. There is no transfer of jurisdiction, there is no violation of the Constitution. She wants to send a clear message that both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly stand to support activities from the European Partnership and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and regional co-operation in meeting all conditions. Has anyone mentioned this resolution? Why is there no readiness, not this home, I called the House's leadership and you know what they answered from the House of Nations (I have one letter, I'm sorry they wrote it to me in that tone): our House of Representatives wants to suck us up. What do we do in this country? Are we ready? Are we ready to work? Why aren't we ready to have a plenary session and promote the success of the Council of Ministers? So, we passed the laws, the other two laws in the daily correspondence with Brisel, one we solved the decision, the other we wait to solve. Have you received a request from the Council of Ministers that the "Disdiscrimination Law" also try not to waste time in the amendment phase, because we had the same dilemmas. It's all over. I asked to shorten the procedures for the election of police bodies and supervisory committees, and I am pleased, I have been informed that the parliamentary commission has cut to 15 days. Why don't we talk about the progress he's making? Why not tell the ministries and ministers who have made progress at ministerial conferences which Parliament has failed? Do you think he can chair himself? Do you think the Council of Ministers can do it alone? I beg you, don't let me make mistakes or stop our country on the European road. So, please, you're wondering, so. But... it's not good to put the agenda points, that the promoter doesn't have the material, and you know it. And I'm ready, for the sake of our country, to always be in front of this Parliament and to answer what we've done and we've done, ladies and gentlemen, a lot. Let's talk about this progress, don't make a swamp out of our country any more. We have passed all the laws to Parliament. We forwarded this resolution. I wanted to talk to the Presidency, this resolution was supposed to serve as the basis for a decision to open a new status story with a country chaired by the European Commission on 1 July. I need Parliament for that. A Parliament that will not send a request to us and say literally: we cannot do this, we ask that you agree the laws so that we, by procedure, will take it or leave it to adopt those laws. I am not running away from it either, but this sends a bad message about Parliament and its role on the European path. Also, gentlemen, you could have made an effort to comply with the laws like Tarik Sadović or I don't know anyone else. And that's why I am talking about the weaknesses of all of us, but I'm not about to give responsibility where there is progress, but where there is no responsibility. So, I'm a man who's willing to tell everyone, and my colleagues, and when there's progress or when there's no. But if that ministry is in line with the laws that 66 have been standing around for a year, let's be people and say, bravo, here's Parliament's support. That's what I expected. I can tell you with pleasure about what we have done, the fully fulfilled obligations and the partially fulfilled obligations, but you will listen to the presentation of Nikola Špirić, not the information of the Council of Ministers, that's all I'm warning you about. And I ask you – whenever you want information, I am a serious man, the Council is serious – ask, give us time. You sent an unserious message that you thought you'd send today, and that's why I waited, and no one would let me know, and even the break was, no one on the phone turned me around and said, the chairman, come, you have a agenda point. Where the parliamentary majority, did the elections, the pre-election campaign, start a boxing match in the political sense that it does not know whether there is a majority, is there not a majority? I have to, gentlemen, to know, and you're wondering if we have most of what we're doing. That's the answer for me. If she's not here, if there's been an election campaign in this country a year and a half before, and we're not able to talk about what we did in this country, and if Brussels sees more progress from you MPs we're dealing with, please, come on, help us move forward. And I think today you're about to do a part of the job that will be assessed as progress. These are the laws. So there's progress. Don't talk citizens are disappointed. We killed them by making a political swamp, not by talking about what we did and what we think was good. And I have to tell you, you're wondering. I am ready whenever you want, I can talk today about nine obligations that have been fulfilled and 18 that are partially fulfilled, and you have here obligations relating to Parliament and different addresses. If you're ready, I'll tell you, we'll have information on the Council of Ministers tomorrow. I think it's much better and more serious that this information from the Council of Ministers, since we've taken on the commitments, comes before the MPs once a month, and after tomorrow we'll be able to deliver it in a written report, the same report that you praised here at the meeting when we spoke to Mr. Rizvo, where the red light, what's done, just make sure there's no red light on the address that asks me where we are, and that's Parliament. Six laws, gentlemen, waiting for your adoption, for your decision. And these are the only laws that await. And I'm ready, so if you think I'm stopping, or I have that intention, you're not going to let me do it with your decision today. And I ask you - either I have support or I have no support, or there is a parliamentary majority or there is no parliamentary majority!? No, I respect, I've been sitting in your benches, but I think we have to do everything we can to have a white Schengen at the end of the year. And in order to have it, we must avoid the political debates of a pre-election campaign in this country, where it will be said: all of you gentlemen have fulfilled all the laws, you have a biometric passport. And I think it will be sooner than we promised. But you have an unserious policy in a country that produces frustrations, fears, you have instability. Eh, you can't take those up the stairs anymore. And I ask you why this resolution that I have offered you, I know that I cannot offer a resolution, has not become the product of your fellow MPs, why it is not presented to the public in which it is called for both respect for the rule of law and for the protection of human rights and for the commitment of all addresses etc.? Will it be anything to you if you adopt it? To give the chairman the tools to go to the Presidency and say: Gentlemen, we have adopted all the laws, conventions, I think we have the right to have a resolution on general commitment in the country and that with our friends, the President of the European Commission, we say: we want the stairs more. But that's what we all have to want and everyone thinks so, and I'm convinced we'll have it. But if we have one to send Brussels a message -- the chairman doesn't think so, he wants to block; the other -- this party won't; the third -- not this resolution, I'm afraid we're not on the right track. 67 So I'm happy you called me. I beg you don't often build me up an opportunity to speak without prepared points and materials, and I ask now, if you want to pass through and here I'll take the opportunity, since you gave it to me, to tell what's done to the public, so I don't just go out here and talk about what others should have done. So, according to the monthly report of the Interresor Working Group that you had here, we said that of the 147 requests from the Map times 18 was partially realised and nine were not realised. It was a condition when we had a report here in Parliament, if you remember. Meanwhile, of these nine requests that have not been made, significant progress has been made. Ministerial conferences have been held to comply with laws that represent a commitment from the Map of Ways. As a product and alignment in Parliament, you take or leave the 'Law on Border Control', 'Law on International Legal Assistance and Criminal Matters, 'Law on the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment' and 'Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities'. At a ministerial conference held by the security minister, it was agreed that the "Weapon Law" at the state level... is not working, and this is, with the agreement therefore with Brussels that it is not a law but a decision on the obligation to comply with the entity and cantonal regulations of the Brcko District of BiH on arms and their compliance with international acts. So Brussels said okay. That's enough for us, I think you're on the right track, and that commitment is fulfilled. There is still talk about laws on the transport of dangerous substances that have also been discussed here and here we are in correspondence. Then Brussels told us: do this, let Parliament adopt these laws, because many did not believe that it was possible to adopt by procedure to take or leave. This is not your obligation... to be a brake on your way to visa liberalisation. And this can be done in different ways, because Brussels didn't say: you have to have the law or you have to have a decision but you have to solve the problem, apply European standards. And I think there will be progress, so we'll have a full assessment of progress. An individual nine requests that have not been made. Under one, it was to adopt and implement legislation that prescribed the movement of a person at the external borders as well as the 'Law on the Organisation of Border Authorities and their functions', in line with the updated State Strategy for Integration of Border Management. This is one of the identified requests from the Roadmap that has not been implemented, but the proposed border control law has been agreed and you will adopt it today. So this is a commitment that today at least this home will end. Two, implement the 2006 strategy against organised crime and corruption. And according to this request, the Council of Ministers has taken action. Namely, a decision has been taken to establish a working group to develop a revised strategy to combat organised crime. Operator: Ministry of Security. We're aware of these obligations, and these things are going in the right direction. Then adopt and implement the 'Strategy to Prevent and Fight Money Laundering'. That's where we did our job, we proposed "The Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists." We've had a lot of dilemmas. We had different notes. In the end, we realized that those who wrote to us that they had not even read the law against it. Well, we've had constitutional disputes, although there's been a law on money laundering since 2005. But this law goes into reconstruction over 50% of the former legal solutions and, here, we suggested it. We've had little corrections and adjustments, and we're also looking for an emergency procedure. I'm sorry you didn't get 68 in three languages today, but if you had more sense for the challenge that Brussels is looking for, you could have taken or left this law today by procedure. By chasing the max to the end, the price is paid by the citizens, as to God's Parliament is serious, we will not, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27254	All the laws are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27255	Is this one about preventing money laundering? I'm sorry, someone told me that the law was lifted because it wasn't on three. My apologies for getting that information.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27256	Someone ran into him.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27257	Yes, under four, implement the State Strategy to fight corruption and the Action Plan adopted in 2006. The Council of Ministers adopted a Decision on the establishment of a working group to draft a bill on the establishment of specialised bodies to fight corruption, and to draft a State Strategy and Action Plan to fight corruption. We've formed a task force, they're working on it, and Brussels has reports that they're working on it, they have teams that are trying to help us. To implement international conventions on judicial co-operation on criminal cases. So, the Justice Ministry called a mini ministerial conference and we got harmonised laws, the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. It is a law that will also be passed today by emergency procedure. Develop working relations with Eurojust, mostly via the Eurojust point of contact, the Realisation Report. Negotiations are under way between representatives of the BiH Ministry of Justice and Eurojust in finding co-operation modes, as it is an international organisation and we see nothing controversial. In May there were two meetings, we expect a model that people will do because these are technical things and watching opportunities where BiH can see itself. Take the necessary steps to ensure effective co-operation on law enforcement between relevant state agencies, especially the Border Police, police, customs officers and co-operation with judicial authorities. You know this is where Parliament called the competition. A Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities has also been established and formed by the Independent Committee for whose establishment is a competent Parliamentary Assembly. And that's why I'm in good communication with my colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27258	Can I have your patience, please? 69
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27259	asked to shorten the procedure of the new competition, because it was a month ago, there were political misunderstandings, I don't think it should have been 15 days, it could have lasted seven days and people would have chosen and Parliament would have done its duty. And that would be a strong progress for you. Yeah, I haven't heard anything about that progress in 15 days. How do you think Brussels will see that? How do you think citizens will react to this hysteria that we produce daily, accusing each other? And that's why I call on the media to promote not what we didn't do but to promote what we did in the interest of the citizens of our country. And now I have, if you like, I can tell you, the demands that are partially met. You know that there were stories about biometrics, not stories, but, of course, action plans for the issue of biometric passports. And then below 1. Gradually introduce biometric passports, including photography and fingerprints; a special BiH-Sweden Treaty was signed on the import of municipalities into the process of issuing biometric passports. The object of this contract is a donation worth 4 million and 200 Swedish crowns. Importing municipalities into the process of issuing biometric travel documents is the main objective of this project, for BiH to be able to implement EU procedures, and this is where the desired dynamic process takes place. Issue biometric travel documents in accordance with EC standards; a report on the realisation signed by a special BiH-Sweden Treaty concerning the integration of municipalities in the process of issuing biometric passports and also goes hand in hand with the dynamics of the contract. To adopt and implement appropriate administrative measures ensuring the integrity and security of the rationalisation and distribution process; a report on the implementation signed a special agreement between BiH and Sweden concerning the integration of municipalities into the process of issuing biometric travel documents. The main objective is therefore to introduce standards and what I can say, so what is important here, therefore, is to educate the appropriate training of the officers of the parent offices who are in charge of the entry and exchange of data, which is a fundamental link in the process of issuing biometric travel documents. It won't matter just physically owning a biometric passport. The safety of this document will be appreciated. It will be estimated how information and networked the parent offices are, that it is impossible to forge the document. And that's where we're going to need that Brussels decision to meet our standards. We're going to have a NATO military exercise in September in Banja Luka, and many think it's an army game. Then the border police... will show how reformed they are, because they will enter from different sides of BiH, so they will have to know what has been introduced and what is being said, what are the balances, whether we have people able to determine what has entered the country, what is coming out, to say this is a credible country from that safe sense. So, processes develop, it's not all black, it's not all wrong. Well, it's not like you chose the chairman of the Council of Ministers to block us daily on the European road. Let's give it a little commendation, give it some will to pour in to the people. This time he's looking for optimism, he's asking for denial, he's looking for us all together in the same chain, and the government and the opposition. 70 We have more, so I can talk about these obligations, report to Interpol database... lost and stolen passports; report on the implementation is ongoing preparatory activities to establish a system of automatic reporting databases on lost and stolen passports at Interpol's base. The system will function simultaneously with the biometric passport system. So, the project that's in the chain, that's in the package. Ensure a high degree of security for birth documents, identification documents and carry out the procedures followed by their publication. That's what I was saying about the security of documents in the home offices, the number of births, the number of deaths, etc. changes in location, etc. Establish training programmes and adopt ethical codes on anti-corruption, targeting border officials, customs officers and other officials involved in border management. So, the realisation report, all the border police employees, are familiar with the Ethics Code of Border Police, and they all signed it by hand. 5. ... thiscode talks about corruption in accordance with the requirements of the Roadmap. Border police will develop an anti-corruption training programme in BiH, conduct training at the Border Police, the Border Police will analyse the existing Ethics Code and work on promotions, etc., etc. If we have made progress anywhere in this country, we have achieved a loss of pace in meeting the conditions for citizens to be on white Schengen. In order to promote what we have done, we needed this resolution from both houses of the BiH Parliament. She needed it as a political message. They were doing this, it's not the invention of President Nikola Špirić, it's what all the countries that asked for status more on the European path, because we analyzed it. But now the problem... is that this resolution by Nikola Špirić, it's Parliament's resolution, not mine. I'm surprised there weren't three MPs who read it or the College so they suggested as their resolution and I'm telling you what I need, what I need the country for. So why isn't he on the agenda today? I know you have... (?) No microphone turned on And I'm talking, please, I'm talking about the system.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27261	Can I have your patience, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27262	Please, about the order of things. The country in last year's resolution, after a political bar like this, won't get a vision from Brussels that it's okay. There must be a refreshed resolution. A new energy must be created to stimulate this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27263	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27264	Can I have your patience, please? 71
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27265	I'm asking you, the realisation of the plan goes as far as the Council of Ministers is concerned at a good pace. We've been commended that we've done, I'm not asking for your commendation, we're asking you to do your part of the job, so that Rizvo will be able to say in Brussels that Parliament has completed its obligations. Thank you very much. I didn't expect to have the opportunity to speak this way, I thought you'd get written information that's going to be a part of the agenda tomorrow, you're going to get it forwarded, and I'm willing to answer, of course, but I think we need more work together, less controversy, and questions that someone's manifesting will answer in one way or another. I'm asking you to promote this progress we've made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27266	Surely you have no need to pray, this Parliament is doing it, he will do it today. I can't help but realize that here we have today had one or two hours, I would say, social criticism or ideological political education by the chief prosecutor and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but here's democracy, it's Parliament, so let's move on. So like this, we have replicas. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27267	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I must say that today is probably the day for the roses to be MPs, so here we have today had the opportunity to listen to the chief prosecutor first, and then the chairman. Of course, a classic theme replacement was used here. And I must say, in this parliamentary practice of mine, which is not small here in Parliament, I feel this way for the first time. I probably feel comfortable, so... I really don't know how to explain the sentence that the Council of Ministers has now passed laws that Parliament has adopted, and Parliament has adopted a conclusion and has forced the Council of Ministers to agree on laws that they did not adopt unanimously at the time and send a message to Parliament that they should not adopt them. Please, the Council of Ministers sent a message to RS lawmakers that they should not vote for these legal solutions, as they voted in the Council of Ministers. And I can't understand, I really can't understand that we're talking today like we're not doing this job, like we don't know what's going on in this House and we don't know what's going on in the Council of Ministers and what's going on between political parties and politicians who make up the parliamentary majority. I hope the chairman wasn't talking to me, because I'm part of the opposition, but that he spoke to the SNSD... when he spoke or at least spoke to all parties of the parliamentary majority,...at least to them to address. I can't understand it, and I'm sure this point wouldn't be on the agenda, if someone from the Council of Ministers had gotten up and said, "We have a meeting of the Council of Ministers tomorrow, don't discuss it today, leave it next time." We'd appreciate that. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27268	I gave the information to Mr. Dolić. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27269	We'd appreciate that attitude. I'm talking about the Council of Ministers, I'm not talking about you, the chairman. So we're not wasting our time here, gentlemen, discussing the laws given to us by the Council of Ministers. We are here discussing laws, affecting or not affecting their appearance. If you think we're wasting time here, I suggest we change constitutional solutions, that you do it for us. Why do you need legislative authority? Finish it, at least don't waste your time if we're wasting our time. Here's a lot of you lost him in the last three years, don't lose him anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27270	♪ We're wasting time ♪
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27271	When you don't lose him, neither will we.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27272	hand and hat. Time, Mr. Novaković! Otherwise we should make a deal...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27273	I'll join Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27274	Okay, time is, time is really 3 minutes and 20 seconds. The other messengers warn me. Well, you've run out of time for a replica. Denis Bećirović, go on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27275	I'll use my time as a replica to say a few irrefutable facts. The fact is that we have precisely what the BiH state needs to do in the visa liberalisation process and we have a negative assessment by Brisel. So that's the facts. There's no election campaign here today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27276	Please, the replica of which is the replica and what is the replica. Please, let us respect the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27277	And I don't think it's hard to conclude that all three replicas are on display as chairman. 73 So, this is not about an election campaign, this is about the conclusions of the largest legislative body in BiH. I remind you, this parliament and most, therefore both the position and the opposition, have adopted the conclusion that every month we hear things stand. Two and a half months have passed, the BiH Council of Ministers has not done so. I think the Council of Ministers should thank the MP who proposed this, not to criticise what this is on the agenda today, because the Council of Ministers was due to deliver a report every month, so that we have a much better debate. What is not, it is probably a question as with hundreds of other conclusions of this parliament that the Council of Ministers has not realised. So we have the first fact that we have no results and compared to other countries we are in the worst position in Southeast Europe. Secondly, we do not have a report, and we should have a report, because this Parliament has concluded it. And third, which is why I got the most up to replicate, is the fact that it is unacceptable for the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers to tell us: the Council of Ministers adopted this and Parliament did not. Is it necessary to draw someone here that one of these same ministers, including the SNSD chairman, one vote in the Council of Ministers and, when we voted here in Parliament, MPs vote differently again from the SNSD. That's not the opposition's problem. This should be made very clear and try to resolve it first within your party, and then within the parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27278	You can do anything, just keep going. We spend no time. Let us return. Let us adopt the laws, and we will continue for two days. So the opposition wants us not to practically pass the law today. Do you see that he wants to? The opposition wants it, right, right!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27279	I beg you, Chairman, I appreciate only the public for the sake of and the interest of the country for the sake of it. It doesn't matter what is said in this House. The European Commission is only presenting the meeting report tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Give me that report where,......................................................... [[no microphone turned on]] Well, no, but it says here... the public that the European Commission gave this report only tomorrow or the day after tomorrow and won't be adopted, will give us time to catch up with the lost time. I ask you, let us fulfill that as a positive assessment, because the Member States will work on it, I have these promises. It's up to us and in that sense, because if we say, here, tomorrow's over, it's not good. In that sense, please, so. And I didn't mean to hurt anyone, but I said that different addresses have to bear these challenges and create a little bit of elan and mutual respect. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27281	No one needs to be asked, we're on the agenda, let's get to the law and adopt them. But here you go, Mr. Križanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know why this anxiety is created and why the opposition is generally accused of not wanting to pass a law that would speed our path to visa-free regime. I had to, I don't want to replicate to anyone, but I had to say today. You see, instead of one very important piece of information that concerns the entire country, the reputation of its, its movement towards Europe, we have received a very inappropriate lecture from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. And only in the back did we get anything from that information. In fact, what can I say is that it irritates and disturbs the way in which you address the chairman of this House. And of course, a lot of the lies that have been made about it. I remind you that four laws that are here or at least three of them have been spinning in the BiH Parliament for a year because they did not come from the Council of Ministers. And now you see at twelve and five all in harmony and we can adopt it. Which one of the MPs, please be honest, managed to look at these laws? We're going to the unseen today. [[Common discussion]] Please, I don't know if they're the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27284	Please be patient, everyone has the right to claim what they think they should claim.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27285	They're probably not the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27286	Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27287	If they were the same, there wouldn't be any need for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27288	They're not the same for him, he didn't see them, and it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27289	You see, what I'm going to say is, uglier and sadder than this situation that we are in, and we are last in the region, at least for the freedom of movement, is the way it works here. Remember, a year ago, we were in the same way, pushing, adopting police laws. I ask you now a year after that: what do we have of these laws, what has been implemented by these laws? 75 you'll adopt, no problem. You see, one year we can't name the bodies of the independent police bodies, one year we can't choose a director for European integration. But now there's only a problem in Parliament which is __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Something of the Council of Ministers, something of Parliament. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27294	Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27295	Very briefly, without the intention of actually pouring oil on the fire. I think it's... it's a good thing Chairman Špirić gave us a lecture like this here, if nothing else, it's good to look over instead of giving him a lecture on 147... unfulfilled conclusions of this home. He's holding us here, giving us a lecture here, I think that's good. The second thing, I don't think the chairman, Špirić, is invited today to submit information, he was invited two and a half months ago. Now, the problem is if the Council of Ministers needs an application to fulfil the obligations that this House has imposed on him. Also, Mr. Špirić says not everything is black and upside down. I wish it were, I wish it hadn't, but only out of the mouth of the EU's most measured people we have these days had the opportunity to hear that BiH is in danger of being the last country in the region to remain on the visa regime. If from what's got niggers and the wrong ones, I... I don't know what and how to say it. So, I had no intention of... of pouring oil on fire, but I think it's good and what we heard today from Mr Špirić and I think it will also encourage the Council of Ministers and Parliament to complete these obligations that are left to put an end to that visa regime. 76 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27296	Here... replica, Mr. Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27297	I suggest you hang the chair, from all these, from all these discussions, here I suggest you hang the chair and I think we'll... end it. We've been against the agenda today, we've made it clear why we're here, and it's showing up now. Now we've brought in the chairman, and now that he's saying he's chairing his own, there are now other problems than what needs to be the subject, and that's why we're not going to participate in this way in the debate and my protest and we're supposed to go out with Živković, too, because this really doesn't make sense. Here we have swallowed to come to the chairman and, when he said what he said, instead of dealing with it, we are dealing with the chairman. I think that's funny.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27298	Thank you. We're going back to the discussion report, Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27299	Thank you, Chairman. I think...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27300	Oh, please, a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27301	that one is a common situation (?) No microphone turned on So, one common situation is that one conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly is implemented and that it is considered to be to be implemented. At first, she was wrongly placed here and produced largely misunderstandings and, I would say, untrustworthy. I voted for that conclusion to be carried out today, to be considered, for the simple reason to hear the information and nothing more. At the beginning, there were, I would say, some ugliness, because there was some politics, some day-to-day political debate, etc. My club's intention wasn't absolutely in it. _________(?) 77 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27304	Mirko Okolić. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27305	Mr. Chairman, I didn't mean to discuss until I heard one finding, which is from the Prime Minister's President's Council that the Council of Ministers adopted certain laws and put them in parliamentary procedure without Parliament adopting them. In order for the matter to be clear, I have to act in the following way: The Council of Ministers has no task only to propose the law and in the procedure, but to task these laws to be so valid that they are adopted in the procedure. And until they're adopted, they'll be followed. I am now asking a question to Mr. Chairman: Is it known to you that you have pushed ahead of the Council of Ministers, I mean the Council of Ministers, the law in the procedure of desiring to change anything in it, or even a comma, and that you are officially on the board of the First Man of the State Agency who should implement it, mostly need to implement that law of that agency, I said – now I would like to hear from you the answer whether you are familiar with it and to see how you act as a Council of Ministers... – I will try to quote: 'Lords MPs, you should be honored because you have not passed that law because he, ten times' or, I don't know, 'three times or seven', it doesn't matter now how much the figure, 'but many times it is worse... than this law that exists.' So you would law on border police, take a stenogram, take this record from the competent commission to give the principle to that law, eh means you did not, by your gesture I now see and get the answer that you are not familiar with – well, how does one such law adopt this parliament? Whose responsibility would it be then, yours or ours? I think it would be our responsibility if we adopted such a thing, and you can't possibly understand that you have to give the law in parliamentary procedure to have a pass. Please agree, if you cannot deal with the opposition, agree with a position that supports the Council of Ministers to obtain the passage of the law. There's also a law where we supported, no matter what the proposal came from the Council of Ministers, if it's really the way it's supposed to be. So the point is, the law has to be of great quality to get support here. And you've put us now in a position to take or leave, and we have here laws that have been in the process of making and proposing or in parliamentary procedure for almost a year. Well, it seems to be someone's goal: we'll wait for the last moment and then we'll say take it or leave it with the stick. If you don't take it, it happens; if you leave it, it happens. I don't think it's a good way, and I just wanted this to be clarified and for the sake of your knowledge and for the knowledge of other fellow Members and the public what laws everything, here under quotes, is being pushed into parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27306	I don't know that we're discussing the Border Police Act today. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27307	Mr. Chairman, I didn't mean to answer but I still have a few sentences to say. I'm one of the ones who voted to keep it on the agenda, but I have to admit, I thought it was a part of the agenda for the next session. ... Seeking a report from the Council of Ministers today is unserious and we have given the Council of Ministers the clagort chairman to attack us justifiably. Today, we could have requested an oral report from the chairman of the 79 Council of Ministers, from the Minister of Security, etc., etc. We did an unserious thing today and we got a lesson justifiable, and let's get it, for the future it's a lesson, but we really need to sit down on this issue and take a critical look at what we're doing and how we're doing. If we are in the next processes with everything we need to do to be in the EU to set up our maximum or political demands, and even our frustrations under motivation, this is an EU requirement, this is a request from Brisel, so we want to push through the muscles, there is no way. We here need to sober up in that context and seriously discuss things. About many of these things, Brussels has not said who should meet in BiH, and there are many institutions both competent and responsible who should and can meet. We haven't even sat down here and distinguished these questions that are essential. I want to remind you of something that... is not directly within the context of this set of laws, but it is in general about the process of European integration. We have reached one conclusion that the committees of both homes are united with a goal, that was the Commission's proposal for European integration, to speed up the processes. So, I think it was half a year ago, and we in half a year and more, maybe, in half a year we're not able to change our rules of procedure and, here, to simplify these procedures that are really complicated. The same thing two homes discuss, etc., etc. And then here's this information, which he told us earlier, that from the House of Peoples, he said that we wanted to suck it up. I'm telling you, this functioning of these two homes, here's my opinion, is completely ineffective. So we have the protection of national interest... through the House of Peoples... we choose the personnel of a very low level. The Council of Ministers and Chairmans only chooses this home, and we choose a director of an agency there and must also go to the House of Peoples. So we're complicating our own decision-making process and the whole decision-making system. And these are the things we need to sit down and discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27308	Thank you very much. I don't have any more reports. Finalising debate on point 20. The Council of Ministers' report on the fulfilment of the visa liberalisation requirements. Those who now remember they shouldn't have voted, that thing's over. Let's go to the point... 21. Ad. 21. Information from the Ombudsman on the state of play in 2008 and the activities undertaken in 2009 Are there any reports of discussion? There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27310	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27311	No Niko's defending you, Jozo, and until now you've been going out and coming, no problem at all. Please let me finish this item on the agenda. Please, sit down, MPs, sit down and finish 80 points of the agenda. There's no problem, if you don't feel like it, wait a minute for me to finish the agenda. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, we're sitting, of course. Well, someone's coming out, so we have to clear it up for each other. I can't track who's coming out, who's not coming out. Just one moment, please. So, are there any reported for this item on the agenda? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on item 21 and I'm asking you, just a little bit, I'm asking if it's a break? Are you looking for a break? Lunch? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27316	Here, I'm giving up. If it means it's going to be again, then I wouldn't even be discussing it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27317	Well, I've read these two conclusions. If you followed me, they say the Council of Ministers is required to hold a preliminary debate on the Security Information in BiH for 2008. So, if this commission requires it to carry out a preliminary debate, it says that the Commission expects us not to adopt definitely today's Information, but to do these actions, and then to go back, if I understand these conclusions that this commission is giving. It was more logical that they immediately proposed to us in their report and asked for an extension of time or something else, but they delivered it, because they say they're not telling me anywhere that they accepted it or received it, etc., but they're just delivering it to me and proposing these conclusions. She's the one who took her in. Tarik, here you go. But I'd rather have this explained to me by this commission that did it. Here's Mr. Križanović, just one second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27318	So, the Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs, I really apologize for being a little late, but here's how much I could catch the meaning of this conclusion,...I can inform you that the Council of Ministers is at the 81st session, which was held on 26. 3. In 2009, it discussed and adopted the Security status information in BiH in 2008, and unanimously. Here, that's what I wanted to give the information. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27319	Thank you very much, but I think Mr. Križanović will help us here. I mean, you'll agree with me that it's pretty confusing, that in contradiction, the fact that the information has been received to the knowledge, and at the same time you're looking for discussions afterwards, etc. Here you go, Jozo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I just got the most of it, and that's why I called. I mean, the debate that was on this committee went towards formulating, first of all, these two conclusions. So, we have not pleaded, we have even asked for the Information to be returned to the Council of Ministers because we considered it, and today I find it incredible that it is considered in one country, asking for information from one ministry and delivered directly to Parliament. This is a serious matter and we asked that the Council of Ministers, in accordance with our conclusion when we returned the Information, remember that we discussed this information here, and said that the Council of Ministers complemented this information with a concrete plan and a programme of measures – what priorities, what should be addressed in order to improve the overall state of security in the country. And in that sense, I am in favour of us realizing that this is what the Council of Ministers needs to discuss, that, in line with its analysis, concrete priorities and a plan of measures to improve.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27321	Okay. ... Mr. Sadović. He insisted, and I said... in an announcement that the Council of Ministers of Information adopted the 81st session, held on 26 March.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27322	Then we didn't understand each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27323	So this is information.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27324	Look, we discussed on the Commission the Information Ministry of Security, which was not discussed in this form by the Council of Ministers. Am I right, Minister? Yes, we certainly are. Therefore, you have signed only that it is directly information of the Ministry of Security.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27325	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27326	Just one second. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27327	But after that, we discussed...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27328	Just one moment, here comes the President of the Commission. Mr. Okolić, I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27329	He is not the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27330	No, it's not the President of the Commission, I'm sorry. So, here's the deal. We have suggested conclusions, we go with the debate further, so when we come to terms, if we adopt conclusions, the implementation of these conclusions will answer these questions. So, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27331	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, I will shorten my presentation by supporting your proposal, with what I have – by the end of the session I will submit a proposal for a conclusion. But last year I was saying when we had a similar report, I have right here, saying, "The Council of Ministers adopted the 81st session of the 26th. March.' And now it's June, it's been three months, and this has come to us. And I don't want this formulation to be on your request, this has to be a commitment. The security of the country is not in the hands of the Council of Ministers, not one minister, not all structures, but Parliament and all of us citizens of this country. That is why I will propose the conclusion 'to oblige the Council of Ministers to provide security information in the country every two months'. And, so I don't keep having a discussion... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27332	Mr. Špirić, you'll get a yellow card today, today will be a yellow card. No, please, just a minute. Slavko, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27333	Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the suggestion, but I'm already underground on how this country is run, and in what way, I'm already underground, only I'm always swimming because I'm not giving up, I accept your suggestion. So when I said in the country, because Srbin are allergic to the country's term, somehow they can't stand the state, but here I am going to say publicly, so because of the situation in the state.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27334	In the country, it can be done in the country. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27335	Let me be concrete, because of the situation in the country, in the country, in the country and in BiH, in our common country, internationally recognised, certified, sovereign, whole, indivisible, composed of two entities, with geographically all possible. Did I just say right now? Well, that's good. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27336	I would beg this conclusion, Slavko, to multiply.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27337	By the end of the session, by the end of the vote, you'll have the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27338	Okay. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27339	So, guys, let's get this situation serious. Just when I was going to commend the minister for the first time, Mr. Minister, listen to this now, I often attack you there, and today I wanted to take the opportunity to commend the minister for this report to the Council of Ministers, and I am sorry that this report did not bring the prosecution to attack that prosecutor – what they have prepared from the crimes they have prosecuted. Now I needed him more than when I was talking about war crimes, but he left. To take this situation seriously, come on, here's every three months on the suggestion of an esteemed colleague to get those three things, not far from the agenda point. We said today we're going to adopt these laws that will be proud of the state, the country, here's no more prefixes, letters of pride. So, the road to Europe - we all said let's go. Now, security is independable from whether we're going to survive, now a little criticism on the Council of Ministers, we don't have more than eight months of a special session, which I've received consent from both you and the committees, to see how this economy is going that's inseparable (let the chairman go now, wait, I can't attack my chairman, if I attacked Dušanka, I can't.) So let me tell you, so security is insecure from the difficult economic situation that we're in, and this report is going to get complicated, I see, many parameters are reduced in percentage but that doesn't mean anything. One murder, one event, one incident causes more damage than any report. This is systematic, it's gone, it's complicated, and I can see that all the parameters are falling, but we can't sneak in. Now we have new challenges, people are out of work, people are committing suicide, they have nothing to eat. So, by the economic situation, we can improve security and that's inseparable. So I will suggest a conclusion, I said, every three months, and if we have already accepted this as you suggested, and I accept, not to spread this discussion for four minutes and I still have five-and-a-half, but, Mr. Minister, you have really not had the luck to praise you, but this report is excellent and every three months you deliver it to us, but don't write down on your 85 request, but on your obligation to inform Parliament about the situation and what security is in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27340	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27341	I thank you, Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, MPs, colleagues and colleagues, in this brief preparation for addressing this item of the agenda, I have seen this opinion a little more in detail and it brings us into a confusing situation, the opinion of the committee in charge. This conclusion, number one, to be delivered to the homes of the parliaments, is now heard by the minister, meaning the conclusion no. One is essentially done. And the conclusion no. 2nd? He has nothing to do with Parliament, he has something to do with this commission to organise something. So we're left with a real debate about this document. What I wanted to discuss about this document concerns only one segment, with a finding at the beginning that the document was really high-quality, and in it it is possible to see all the data that are relevant to this segment, means the state of security in BiH as it was last year. I only want one thing here, so one segment is mentioned, and it has been found for him that the situation is unsatisfactory in that area, and that's crimes related to car theft that are rising in BiH by 5%, or when translated: in the Federation entity is 15%, in the RS entity 25%. So, we should commend here the MUP RS for doing its job in this segment in quality, has a significant reduction in this part. Furthermore, we also see that the degree of discovery of stolen vehicles in the RS is far, far greater than in the Federation. What reason is that? Probably this complex organization of cantonal MUPs, the Federal MUP and all that. But here are the findings. I would, given that in the final examinations and conclusions that are mentioned here, of them seven, they are indeed six in fact, they are indeed one of a general character, without deadlines, without the institutions in charge, etc. In this segment, which I have discussed, I would suggest one conclusion, and given the weight, it means that this is one of the segments, almost the only segment where the deterioration of the situation in that area, the conclusion would be: 'The Ministry of Security is in charge of doing a plan of activity to improve the situation in the area of car theft and the deadline for drawing up this plan of activity is 30 days'. And I would ask the MPs to support this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27342	Thank you very much. Šefik Džaferović. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27343	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will only briefly say that the Defence and Security Commission for this information has asked the Council of Ministers to hold a preliminary debate on the Security Information for 2008 – the debate was held, as is evident, in March of the month, there is the minister right – and it is the draft plan for the resolution of security issues. So here is the emphasis of this conclusion on the plan of measures to be taken by the Council of Ministers and to provide information to the Commission and the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly. The second conclusion is to resolve the issues and problems of the proposal, etc. 'The Joint Commission is obliged to organise a special session with the Minister of Security, his associates, and the directors of security agencies, including BH MAK. The questions set out in the information will then be discussed in detail at the Security State Conference to be organised by the Joint Commission, in accordance with the adopted work plan for this year." In the context of this conclusion, I am particularly interested in three issues, or they are particularly concerned about three issues. The first question, counterpart Nanić has already talked about it, concerns an increased number of car thefts in the Federation of BiH. In BiH, both entities and Brcko District in 2007, we also had a significant decline in 2006 compared to 2005. And this is for the first time now in 2008 there is a rise in car theft in the Federation of BiH. It would be logical to expect that trend to continue to decrease, and here it has increased by 15.78% and I think that the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security and the police agencies of all levels must seriously address this issue and see what is causing the growth. So, the trend was going down, and I've been lauding that item all the time. But there's something going on here, and from this information I can't see it, it probably needs to be further studied. Another thing that is particularly interesting concerns these most serious crimes against life and the body, again in the Federation of BiH: 29 murders, the most serious forms of this crime against life and the body, and 40 murders or 37.93% more in 2008. It would be logical to expect that the trend and in this type of crime continue, so to reduce the number of crimes, but we have an increase of almost 40% here. So this is a very serious matter and requires a special analysis. And I'm saying this because here are the Minister of Security and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers and I think this should be the subject of a special analysis. And the third thing is yesterday, from the day before yesterday. Here, I have never really had any or no actual or proven knowledge of the existence of parallelisms in BiH police agencies or police parallelisms at all outside police agencies in the form of some security organisations or something. However, the High Representative has made one decision that points seriously to the problem, as far as I can see from the media. And I appreciate that the BiH Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers must deal with this problem. Because if that's the case, then there's all the alarm bells. So this is a very, very, very serious thing and I'm asking that this thing together as a third thing within this information from the Council of Ministers is being analyzed and that we see what it really is, what it really is about. The High Representative's decision is serious, it is certainly based on facts and evidence, otherwise it would not have been made. And we as Parliament cannot stick our heads in the crosshairs, as this one colleague said, because we are building a system, building police agencies with their responsibilities, security agencies with their responsibilities, and 87 there must be no parallel systems within police agencies and there must be no intertwination of the responsibilities of police agencies and security agencies. This is a question we have to deal with very, very seriously. I, too, ask the Council of Ministers to give us detailed information in this direction, within the framework of this Commission's first conclusion. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27344	I don't have any more reports. Finalising debate on item 22. Information on the state of security in BiH in 2008. We're going to point 23, so, "Ad." 23. Information from the BiH Ministry of Security on state of affairs of BiH journalists So, let me remind you again, to visit you once again, to realize the adopted conclusion of the 47th session. So here's the agenda point here, according to the House's conclusion. The initiative was launched by Mr Denis Bećirović. Last time, let me remind you, we also assessed that it was better to download information from the agenda because of the lack of a resolute minister. Here, today the conditions are fully met. So, I am opening a debate on the Information Ministry of Security on the state of affairs of journalists in BiH. Here you go, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27346	At the beginning of the debate on this agenda point, I would like to say that we adopted conclusions on the debate concerning the security of journalists in BiH on 4 March 2009. And one of the conclusions was that the BiH Security Ministry provided us with information on the state of security of journalists in BiH within 15 days at the latest. So Parliament has given a 15-day deadline, here it has been almost three months since we adopted that conclusion, so first I want to remind myself of the fact that the Ministry of Security has not responded in good time to this conclusion of the House of Representatives. All MPs have received information on the current state of security of journalists in BiH, and I must say that as well as anyone who has looked at this report, I share concerns against the facts provided in this report. In fact, the mere fact that more than 45% of the attacks on journalists in 2008 than in previous years should really alarm the whole of BiH. Moreover, we have this information at a time when just last year, the European Parliament looked back on the state of media freedom and when it openly voiced concern about the climate of media intimidation in BiH. So we have a very serious problem and the very fact that in BiH 29 journalists from the 24 Bosnian-Herzegovina media were attacked in 2008 enough to say how serious the situation is. According to this information, as many as 77 people have been reported as perpetrators of 46 attacks on journalists in BiH. So in this context 88 is even registered to throw explosives, whether, hand grenades, violent incursions into newsrooms and offices, verbal death threats, threats of insults, physical injuries, etc. physical attacks, etc. Here from this information, we can't clearly see how and how sanctioned those who have done this kind of work are. And it's probably one of the important objections to this information, because from that we can conclude, among other things, whether these people are encouraged or they're really adequately sanctioned for what they're doing. I must say that this last paragraph of this information can be read in different ways and I personally would not formulate it as it was delivered to us by the MPs. From this, it can be concluded from this formulation that if journalists do not respect their regulation and self-regulatory profession, etc., then it will not be a high degree of their personal security. I think we should adopt a few conclusions about this information here. Therefore, without further discussion, not repeating what is contained in the European Convention on Human Rights when it comes to freedom of expression, etc., I propose: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives concludes that it asks the Ministry of Security for full information on sanctioning perpetrators of attacks on journalists in BiH and 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Ministry of Security in the Council of Ministers to submit a proposal for measures within 30 days aimed at preventing verbal and physical threats and opposition against journalists in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27347	Thank you. I don't have any more applications for discussion. I'm also closing the debate on item 23. Information from the Ministry of Security on the state of security of journalists in BiH. Let's go to point 24. Ad. 24. Confirmation of the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to appoint: a) Mladen Simić as Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH, (b) Živko Marjanac za zamjenik ministar of odbrana za politika i planiranje of BiH The chairman of the Council of Ministers delivered a Decision appointing on 27 May, in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure to prepare the election of ministers. So, uh... The Council of Ministers' election committee considered this decision with its accompanying documentation. We're finally here today and we've got a report from this committee. So... all the preconditions have been created that we can discuss and decide today to confirm this decision. In accordance with Article 42 of the Treaty on the Functioning Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to read the Council of Ministers' decision to appoint a deputy minister. Here is the text of this decision: 89 So, on the basis of Articles 10 and 10.f. I am making the law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina: A DECISION on the appointment of Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport and Deputy Minister of Defence for Policy and Planning of BiH I. The Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH is named Mladen Simić, and BiH Deputy Minister of Defence for Policy and Planning Živko Marjanac. II. The decision takes effect on the date of confirmation by the BiH Parlametary Assembly's House of Representatives. So, this Article II. says what our right and obligation is. I'm opening a debate. Here's my report, if it's not a mistake, Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27349	I thank you, Mr. President. Here I would like to take advantage of the presence of Mr Mladen Simić here as Deputy Minister of Transport and Liaison of BiH and Mr Živko Marjanac as Deputy Minister of Defence for Policy and Planning of BiH, why is there no appointment of Master Rude Vidović as Minister of Transport and Communications, when we know that this proposal has long been in the process and was delivered to the Prime Minister of the Council? So here's... that kind of answer depends, so our relationship to... now we have no reason to dispute these decisions, but on the contrary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27350	Here you are, Mr. Špirić. Here's Mr. Špirić to show his willingness to respond immediately. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27351	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, honourable ministers, esteemed guests, it is good that colleague Raguž asks and there is no problem. I have to say that... 90 until I got my colleague Ljubić's resignation and accepted, we got the name of Mr... Rude Vidović as minister of traffic and communication. In accordance with the law, I therefore forwarded the decision to the Central Election Commission and the SIPA for verification. We have received a positive report from the Central Election Commission, we expect the SIPA report and if it had come in this time, it would certainly be today at the plea. So what I am obliged to do is wait for the SIPA report to pass it on to Parliament, and that's the only reason why it doesn't exist today. If we get this today, this week, the first day of next week, be sure, the same day will be passed on to Parliament in order for the parliamentary commission to complete its work and to be confirmed in Parliament. I say once again, I'm sorry, and I'd like it to be easier for me to work at the Council of Ministers if this was over, but that's the only reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27352	Thank you. Here I think Mr. Martin Raguž is pleased with this clarification. I don't have any more reports. Finalising debate on item 24. Confirmation of the Council of Ministers' decision. Let's go to point 25. Ad. 25. Appointment of members to the Special Investigation Commission Again a reminder: at the 52nd session, after our adoption in the College as the Commission, we adopted a conclusion on the establishment of a Special Investigation Commission, with the task set out in the conclusion itself. We invited clubs to be defined, because such a conclusion was to determine their representatives for the members of this committee. And MPs with only one MP would automatically be members of this ad hoc commission, as the conclusion is that one representative of each parliamentary party enters this commission. We've been waiting until now for representatives' candidacy, most of which we've won, but until today we haven't received SDA Club and SNSD proposals, the other clubs have submitted proposals. According to these proposals, the Commission proposed: Adem Huskić (Stranka for BiH), Denis Bećirović (SDP), Slavko Matić (HDZ), Vinko Zorić (HDZ 1990), Mirko Okolić (SDS), Branko Dokić (PDP), Hadži Jovan Mitrović (Democratic People's Union), Sefer Halilović (Bosnian Patriot Party BiH), Rifat Dolić (Democratic People's Community of BiH) and Jerko Ivanković Lijanović (The People's Party Work for the Better). We were at an extended college yesterday in preparation for this session and... we were trying to finish this job, but there are some questions open and we did not get the candidates of these two political parties, but we rated here to go to Parliament because it was a conclusion, so let's see how we're going to move on. 91 Here comes Mr. Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27354	So on behalf of the club, I propose Sadik Ahmetović as a member.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27355	Here, this way, we've got... and a candidate in front of the SDA. So, the rest is that the SNSD may have proposed a candidate, but the SNSD has expressed certain reserves as required by a commission like this, but... I better not be an interpreter of the position Mr. Kalabić presented yesterday, I'd better leave it to him. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić, who applied for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27356	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'm going to repeat what we said at the Expansive College. We've received information that in this case the State Investigation Agency has initiated a certain procedure and is leading it. We believe that... at this point is the excessive formation of such a commission, that it would be even one interference in this kind of investigation and that this sort of thing and usually when it's done, the authorities are called after this commission's work and so on. However, if people have taken over our call and what we've been doing here, I think that forming a parallel commission like this is... inappropriate and unnecessary, and I think we should wait for these people to finish their work, who are competent and in some way have, here, no matter why and how they run this procedure and that... at this point, the formation of this commission is losing its meaning.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27357	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27358	Here I think it's going to be one conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27359	Here we heard, we heard this SNSD attitude. Here is an announcement that the Club of Members of the SNSD will, in the context of this item of the agenda, propose a conclusion on which we will plead before, by the nature of the conclusion I see,... statements on the composition of... of this Special Investigation Commission. I don't have any more reports, I'm closing the debate on item 25. We're going to point 26. So 92 Ad. 26. Declaration by the House on a proposal from the Joint College of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly to address the College of both homes to the High Representative for BiH in order to give an opinion on the conclusion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics I'm explaining the introduction of this agenda at today's session of some things I said, but here's to simplify. So, with the trail of the parliamentary issue of Mr. Slobodan Šaraba on the subject of fate and sustainability of the decisions of the High Representative and the consequences of people's shifts, what will happen when the OHR is put out, until it lasts, sanctions etc., human rights, the College passed this issue to the Joint Commission on Human Rights, which proposed one conclusion, which reads: 'The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is required to launch an initiative under the Office of the High Representative for the Review of All Decisions of the High Representative... which has been replaced by certain persons or that the High Representative makes a decision which will transfer this authority to the Ombudsman's Office for Human Rights of BiH or any other institution." We discussed this at the Joint College of both homes and did not reach a consensus on the level to ask for an opinion, not to be reconsidered, etc. There was a proposal to simply forward this conclusion of the Joint Commission to the OHR, with a request to give us an opinion on this type of conclusion and what can be expected in the future regarding... the fate and manner and length of the duration of these sanctions, etc. However, we have not reached this consensus and then in accordance with the Rules of Procedure... when the colleagues of both homes fail to reach agreement on these matters, they decide and declare the House of Representatives. I hope you understand what this is all about. Here's the debate, if there's any further questions. There isn't. I'm closing debate on item 26. Let's go to point 27. Giving consent to ratification. Rajka, I don't need to read this, do I? Well, ad. 27. Giving consent to ratification
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27365	Thank you, Chairman. I am sorry that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is not here, because these agenda points concern the direct work of the Council of Ministers and individual ministries on this matter and to clear up some 95 here when it comes to these laws. I also speak for those who voted with abstention, and in connection with the request to see what these laws are coming out of the Constitution, where there is a transfer of competence and why BiH has waited two years for these laws to come here to Parliament in a way that they can be acceptable. When I talk about the Council of Ministers, I want to say that the first law is greatly improved and concerns that more than one chapter and the RS CAP will not be expelled and that only the entity's laws are harmonised in accordance with this law, which is a compromise solution, and thus the RS's jurisdiction in that section is not taken away. When I talk about the laws under regular number 2 and 3, these are the laws that were passed by the Council of Ministers, without the support of one member of the RS in the Council of Ministers, came here to Parliament and of course they could not be adopted in this way here and then we are talking about that this parliament is guilty of the unhappiness of the Council of Ministers. The fourth law on the agenda today has never been in this procedure and is here in Parliament for the first time. The laws under 2 and 3 have largely been corrected, that we are not now talking about each individual point where, such as this one on border control is finally accepted by the resolution ministry: DICAF recommends that incidents be thrown out, that a joint commission be formed, that arms and military equipment control be inserted into the terms of the MUP RS and the MUP canton. For the media and all those who said that the entity vote here was wrong that the visa regime in BiH did not get citizens, it is not true, but a sick desire for someone to unitify this country and to transfer competences and violate the BiH Constitution under the EU entry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27366	Here, I sincerely hope we miss an opportunity for some replicas. Jozo Križanović. It's a discussion, a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27367	Here, I'll do it very briefly. Thank you, Chairman. Namely, here is to thank, first of all, colleagues of Živković for giving us a cut of the innovative laws that were long in the parliamentary procedure. It would have been better if we had heard it from a representative of the Council of Ministers, but believe us we didn't all have the opportunity to find out these differences compared to what we had so far in the procedure and what is now served as a agenda. Today, just to say that I am aware of the importance and needs of adopting these laws, but I would ask you to lift this practice. This is the adoption of the law to the unseen, it's not a shortened procedure, you know, it's not even a shortened procedure. Getting a set of four laws not a day earlier than the session is indeed an unacceptable practice. That's it, thank you. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27368	I understand, Mr. Križanović, your argument. However, this home, if you remember, supported and asked the Council of Ministers to send us these four laws as soon as possible with an emergency procedure and that we are prepared to do so. The Rules of Procedure didn't say when he had to. Before the session it was important to deliver, and I understand your argument that you're saying, but it doesn't matter if I understand it, it's important, well, well, okay. Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27369	Here, I have to say a few sentences, even though Mr. Živković said the point. That's what I'm saying because I'm a member of the Joint Defence and Security Commission and everyone who's been on this committee, and here they are, remembering this ping-pong with this committee and the House of Representatives, we know the details, because we know almost by heart these laws from all these few notes that have been seen and changed. I don't think it takes a lot of time for everyone to get acquainted with it, what counterpart Živković was talking about, means by respecting the amendments that have been rejected for two years. On several occasions, I sought on this commission, after the Ministry of Security did not accept even the score to change, to expand the dialogue, but they did not accept. The minister did not attend the meetings of the Commission almost once, and the people of the Ministry of Security kept saying they did not have the authority to accept anything or change anything. One of my demands was for Minister Sadović to go to Banja Luka to try to resolve this issue, as others supported. He refused to do so, so that in the last 15 days he would be in Banja Luka several times and finish all the work and accept all this. Which was why he didn't go before, that he's gone now, but here's why we don't explain it now. We went to Geneva when they handed over the first proposal by the DICAF Ministry of People, when we had an unfavourable bickering and a correspondence between the Director of the Border Police, Mr. Dumančić, who wrote on behalf of the institution a letter and where the man was absolutely right and the people of international institutions confirmed that he was right and here we now have all these solutions and it was really ugly to listen to all those interpretations both in the media and everywhere that we were guilty of something, that we used entity voting and all that, when this was a fact. We don't have any of this lab now, but for science, for some future time, it's known precisely and I'm sorry that there are no people from the Council of Ministers, especially the Ministry of Security, only for one question: What did they need this whole story in this way to stretch for two years and then end up in Banja Luka – is it coffee or not – in two or three days?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27370	Do we have any more Momčilo Novaković?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27371	Well, it's very short. It seems to me that there was a question from the vice president. So, we've been making a statement about the procedure and I've stayed at the earlier position, and I see my colleagues are also my colleagues, so we don't support the emergency procedure. As far as the law is concerned, they are not disputed for us after these corrections and we will continue to support the solutions in the law. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27372	Maybe this isn't worth the smarter discount, but good. Let's get back to the vote. So we go to point 3. Proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters by emergency procedure. We're voting on this law. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 34 "for" (22 Federation, 12 RS). I find that this law has been given both the general and the entity majority and is thus adopted. Let's go to point 4. Proposal for a border control law by emergency procedure. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 34 "for" (22 Federation, 12 RS). I find that this law has been passed, along with the general and entity majority. Let's go to point 5. Proposal for a law on the control of the movement of weapons and military equipment. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 34 "for" (Federation 22, RS 12). I also find that this law has been passed, along with the general and entity majority. We're going to go to point six for a statement. Proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 33 "for" (21 Federation, 12 RS). I also find that this law has been passed, along with the general and entity majority. In this way we have completed this set of visa liberalisation laws and I express my satisfaction and share with you that we have finally done this. We're going to point 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH (second reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 35 "for" (23 Federation, 12 RS). I agree that amendments to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH were adopted in the second reading, along with the general and entity majority. 98 Let’s go to point 8. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for the security of BiH (second reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 25 "for" (23 Federation, two RS). We don't have RS support. We'll get along later. We're going to point 9. Proposal for a law on the parliamentary military commissioner for BiH (second reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now. 33 "for" (22 Federation, 10 RS). I find that this law has been given both the general and the entity majority, and is thus adopted. Now we get to point 10. Proposal for a Law on Postings of BiH (second reading). Please plead. If you remember, I have informed you that according to our conclusion there has been a process of agreeing that it is being brought to a practical end and therefore it is necessary to postpone the plea for some time. So, just a statement for the next session. Please prepare to vote. So, are we in favour of delaying a plea for the next session on the Post Law Proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27373	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27374	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27375	It is not certain whether the House of Nations will be settled until the next session, so we delay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27376	We're postponing, we're postponing, so if I were sure the package was completely closed, we'd vote today, but here we leave room with a good chance of getting things sorted out. So we are pleading to postpone the vote for the next 56th session. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! 32 "for" (20 Federation, 12 RS). This conclusion was reached both by the general and entity majority, and we postponed the plea for the next session. 99 Let’s go for a statement on point 11. Proposal for a law on the use of sign language (second reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 32 "for" (21 Federation, 11 RS). I find this law passed in the second reading, because it has both a general and an entity majority. Let's go to point 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Deposit Insurance in Banks of BiH (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 31 "for" (22 Federation, nine RS). I also find that we adopted this deposit insurance bill in the first reading because it has both a general and an entity majority. Let's go to point 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads to BiH (first reading). This is about a law proposed by the Commission for Human Rights. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 35 "for" (23 Federation, 12 RS). I also find that this law has been given both the general and the entity majority, and was adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27377	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27378	Is it for this next one? I ask you not to put pressure on independent MPs. So let's go to point 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Basics of Traffic on the Roads of BiH, Proposer of the People's House (first reading) Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! Three “for, ” 30“ against. ” It's not adopted. We're moving on 15. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts (second reading). 100 we had a match, we didn't achieve consent. It's in the second round. The votes "against" are numbered, all of them as well. Prepare to vote. Vote now! We have 10 votes "against". Therefore, the proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts has been rejected. Let's move on, so we're going to point 16. A report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of BiH institutions. The text is in sync. We vote on the Commission's report. We're going to make a statement on the report. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 32 "for" (20 Federation, 12 RS). I agree that we adopted the Commission's report on text harmonisation, because it has a general and entity majority and thus the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions has been adopted. Now comes 17. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2008. So, Dom's getting on or not getting on. So, first we vote on receiving knowledge. Vote now! 25 "for" (22 Federation, three RS). We didn't take her into knowledge. There's no consent. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 27 "for" (23 Federation, four RS), but there are no 10 votes "against" and the Information was received for knowledge. Here we have proposals for MP Denis Bećirović's conclusions, four conclusions, and Joza Križanović, one conclusion. So, please, we can't exactly in the package. We can in a package of the conclusions of one promoter, of course, if they agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27379	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27380	So, the promoter is agreed to make a statement on all four conclusions. Let me remind you, these are the updated conclusions of the SNSD. Here, get ready to vote. Vote now! 101 25 "for" (23 Federation, two RS). It's a match. There's no consent. We're going to the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now! Three, six, nine, ten. So Denis Bećirović's conclusions were rejected, as 10 RS lawmakers voted "against".
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27381	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27382	See Slavko, so take these documents together. We are going to make a statement on this conclusion by Joza Križanović. One is the conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 26 "for" (23 Federation, three RS). It's a match. There's no consent. We're going to the second round. Prepare to vote Vote now! 25 "for" (22 Federation, three RS), three votes "against". So there are no 10 votes "against" from the entity, or there are no thirds of the "against" votes from the entity and, Mr. Križanović, with my help, this conclusion has been adopted, is it. Let's move on, so the report (we're done with the prosecution's information), let's go point 18. BHRT's 2008 work report. Let's get first on BHRT's 2008 report. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 25 "for" (17 Federation, 8 RS). A report on BHRT's work for 2008 was adopted because it has both a general and an entity majority. We are going under b) Report of the Management Board of RTVBiH (BHRT) for 2007 and 2008. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 28 "for" (16 Federation, 12 RS). I find that the Report of the Management Board of RTVBiH for 2007 and 2008 was adopted because it has both a general and an entity majority. 102 Let's go to point 19. The 2008 report on BHRT's financial operations, with a review of the corrections of BHRT's financial reports for 2007 and 2008. So now we are voting on the Report, with the Commission's opinion and the conclusions contained in the Opinion. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 25 "for" (16 Federation, nine RS). I agree that the 2008 report on the financial operations of BHRT with the 2007 and 2008 corrections was adopted because it has both a general and an entity majority. Let's go to point 20. The BiH Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of the visa liberalisation commitments from the Roadmap for BiH citizens. We had only provided information, oral information from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. There were no suggested conclusions. I think we should still respect that we had information, and I suggest we plead that we take it to the knowledge, if that's okay with you. And I'd put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27383	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27384	Well, here's to saying that we heard her, Mr. Okolić, out of respect that we still remember that there was something, that we didn't think Mr. Špirić was there. [[Common discussion]] So I suggest we take it, please, to take it to the knowledge, or to receive it. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27388	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27389	Yes, Jozo, but I can't right now, the motionaries don't give up, no one's trying to intervene the proposal, etc. I really don't have the capacity to do it all, I'm a little bit, okay. So let's go to the conclusion statement. 104 We have first, the proposal for the conclusion of Mr. Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27390	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27391	Do you want a list, Slavko? Are you going now or should we wait until we vote and then? Okay. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! 20 "for" (15 Federation, five RS). I find that Slavko Jovičić's proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. We are going to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion by Husein Nanić. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 22 "for" (19 Federation, three RS). We don't have entity support. The second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 25 "for" (22 Federation, three RS), with three votes "against" (one vote "against" the Federation), so there are no third votes "against" from the entity. I also find that the proposal for a conclusion was adopted by Husein Nanić. We're going to point 23. Information from the BiH Ministry of Security on the state of security of journalists in BiH. This is where we plead to receive information. So let's go to the first statement on receiving information. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 28 "for" (19 Federation, nine RS). I find, with the general and entity majority, that we have received information. On the occasion of the information, Denis Bećirović has proposed two conclusions. Denise, will we separate?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27392	Separately.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27393	Please separately. Here, I'll do my best to help you. So, this conclusion no. 1, to call it that, Denis Bećirović, reads 'The House of Representatives of BiH 105 of the Parliamentary Assembly tasked the Ministry of Security in the BiH Council of Ministers with delivering within 30 days the Information on the Facilitation of Verbal and Physical Insults to Journalists in BiH.' Please prepare for the vote on Conclusion 1. Denis Bećirović. Vote now! 27 "for" (23 Federation, four RS). Round two. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! 26 "for" (22 Federation, four RS). Without one third of the vote "against", I find that the conclusion is 1. Denis Bećirović adopted. Let's go to Opinion 2. Denis Bećirović "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Ministry of Security in the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver the proposed measure within 30 days, with the aim of preventing verbal and physical threats against journalists in BiH." So please prepare to vote. Vote now! 29 "for" (23 Federation, six RS). I find that the conclusion is no. 2. Denis Bećirović adopted. Let's go to point 24. I'm sorry you waited a long time today, all day, but it's worth it. It's no small thing to be a deputy minister, but it's worth waiting for. So point 24. Confirming the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to appoint a) Mladen Simić as BiH Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport, (b) Živko Marjanac as deputy defence minister for politics and planning. So, we are now voting on confirming the Council of Ministers' decision. Are we going to go one vote for both candidates as I read it because that's the decision? Prepare to vote. Vote now! 26 "for" (17 Federation, nine RS). I find that the appointment decision has been confirmed because it has both a general and an entity majority. I apologize, so let's wait for this ceremony, or the solemn act of taking an oath, and then we'll continue. Of course, I already congratulate people, but here, there will be opportunities for the rest of you. Here, you just repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27395	'I declare 106
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27396	Declaring
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27397	that I will knowingly perform the duties which I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27398	that I will knowingly perform the duties which I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27399	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27400	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27401	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27402	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27403	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27404	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27405	Thank you. /PAUZ/ So we get back to the vote. Let's go to point 25. The appointment of members to the Special Investigation Commission. So here we have a proposal for a SNSD conclusion that we're going to say first. I'll read it to you. 107 So, the SNSD suggests: 'The House of Representatives postpones the formation of a Special Investigation Commission, link: 0150-1-15-52/09, Conclusion No. 2. House of Representatives from the 52nd session, 24. 4. 2009 until the end of the procedure and of the actions carried out in BiH's competent institutions on the same issue." Denis Bećirović's intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27407	Well, I'd like to invite representatives of the SNSD Club to withdraw this conclusion. At last session, the House of Representatives made it very clear that it was a commitment to form this investigative committee. The SNSD alone didn't support it, and today they're not making drama out of this issue for nothing. There is no reason not to examine this, so we are not introducing one practice to legally make decisions at one session of Parliament, and then on the other we are delivering conclusions that we are refuting a decision from the previous session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27408	Here's a business intervention, Mr. Živković. Well, I don't think there's gonna be any drama if we plead, people suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27409	We're in the voting process and I think it's inappropriate to stand up and elaborate any conclusion. We've said our position. In that regard, you had the right to report. This is unsuitable, and every time you abuse our good will that we let you say anything here, because now I have to say that, in the meantime, we have learned that there are various actions being done in connection with this, that the competent institutions are doing it and that this Parliament is thinking once again whether he is entering the investigating committee when he knows that the institutions are already in charge are doing it and what is this message to the competent institutions. That's what we wanted with this conclusion. You had every right to say that when it was the agenda. What you've done now is inappropriate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27410	Here's what we heard... I've read this conclusion, if I have to do it one more time. I would ask you to refrain. You all heard, I think it was an opportunity, you all said what you had to say, we all understood what anyone said. But here, I put the SNSD's proposal to vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now! This statement does not prejudge stopping this conclusion. It depends on the results of the vote. 12 votes "for", 16 "against". The SNSD's proposal did not receive the general majority. We will now plead on the composition of this committee. There's been a thought and an announcement, and here's what I'm gonna do. I have been confirmed, however, that SNSD is proposing Milica Marković as a member of this 108 commission. So keep in mind the correction, so a member of this commission in front of SNSD Milica Marković. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović, there's no problem. Let's move on. Please prepare to declare the composition of this commission: Sadik Ahmetović, Adem Huskić, Denis Bećirović, Slavko Matić, Vinko Zorić, Mirko Okolić, Branko Dokić, Hadži Jovan Mitrović, Sefer Halilović, Rifat Dolić, Jerko Ivanković and Milica Marković. I apologize for the last time I read you. So, please prepare for the vote. Vote now! 33 "for" (22 Federation, 11 RS). I find that we have formed an investigative commission, because we have both a general and an entity majority for these appointments and for this choice. We have now another vote on item 26. Declaration on a proposal from the Joint College. Practically, the problem is that the Joint College has not reached agreement and we could not talk about the Joint College's proposal, but this is about the conclusion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27411	It's not what it's like, first we voted in the Joint College.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-10-0.u27412	So, please, so the House declares itself on a proposal from the Joint College of the two Houses of Parliament 'to address the Joint College of both homes to the High Representative to give an opinion'. We didn't get the consent to ask for an opinion. So we haven't reached an agreement on that. So we now declare that this House is requesting the OHR's opinion on the conclusion of our Commission on Human Rights, etc., which I read to you three times. Please prepare, therefore, for an opinion, to prepare for the vote. Vote now! So why not, we're asking for an opinion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Uh, excuse me, excuse me, prepare to vote. Vote now! So we're asking for an opinion on this conclusion. We have this conclusion, the conclusion made. With 24 votes "yes" (13 Federation, 11 RS), I conclude that the House of Representatives adopted the conclusion that the OHR is seeking an opinion on the conclusion of our Joint Commission on Human Rights. ... 109 Let's go, please finish, we have another point 27. Giving consent to ratification. There's no need to list all these agreements. Are we ready to make a statement in the package? Should we vote on that? You don't have to. So, by acclaiming the House, we declare that we vote on everything, from a) to h. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 35 "for" (23 Federation, 12 RS). I agree that we have agreed on agreements, conventions, protocols, etc., from a) to h). This is how we ended this 55th session today. Short information, so the next... session is the 24th, then 8, then 22nd, plus the 14th plenary poslanik ask the Council of Ministers to answer and then we will try to resolve those issues that are being initiated here to debate at a joint plenary session. Here, I thank you for your cooperation and I wish you all the best. The seat is closed at 6:10 p.m.
