ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2125	The meeting was opened. I very much welcome you all. As prevented, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2153	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Dieter Böhmdorferwill be appointed by the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection Vice chancellor Mag. Herbert Main Representative. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2180	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2299	Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2318	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a block speaking time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed for this meeting, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, Free 108 minutes and Green 117 minutes. The speaking time agreement on members of the government and state secretaries was announced at the meeting yesterday. I would like to remind the Minister and the two State Secretarys of this time limit: Mr. Federal Minister, you have 20 minutes of speech. If you talk longer, this will be at the expense of the speaking time of your group. The State Secretarys in the department each have 10 minutes of speaking time. If you exceed your speaking time, this is at the expense of the respective political groups. So far as this information is concerned. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted, and we will proceed in this way. 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (60 of Supplements): The Federal Finance Act for the year 2003 and Appendices (112 of the Supplements) (re-introduction of the German Federal Financial Act). Negotiations postponed on June 2003) 2. Point Report of the Budgetary Committee on the Government Template (61 of Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2004 and Appendices (113 of the Supplements) (re-introduction of the Bundesfinanzgesetz for the year 2004). Negotiations postponed on June 2003)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2376	I will now resume the negotiations on the Federal Financial Laws 2003 and 2004. Transport, innovation and technology Chapter 65: Transport, innovation and technology
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2402	First of all, Chapter 65: Transport, innovation and technology. Mr Eder was the first speaker to speak. I'd like to set the clock to 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2424	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to say that I am pleased that Mr Kukacka, the Secretary of State, is immediately closer to the Minister of State, because I hope that the two gentlemen in the ministry can work better than they sometimes express in the media. [[Abg. Neudeck: “Schulterschluss” is called that!]] I have been to the Federal Minister Gorbach for an entrance visit, for which I would like to thank myself, because we were able to grasp some constructive thoughts together. After nearly four ministers have been consumed over the last three or four years and now, in order to compensate for this gap, a State Secretary has also been added, I hope that we will now be particularly in the field of infrastructure – yes, but I have still known the previous one! – can think a little longer-term, because that would be necessary. [[Abg. Scheibner: Three! - Don't exaggerate!]] I do not even want to say: legislative periods, but it must be thought in the long term. That is why, I believe, one should try to work constructively as an opposition party to issues and decisions which are important to our country. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can say that we want to be constructive partners, and we've been really serious about it. We also, two years ago, when the government developed the overall transport plan, developed its own transport plan, namely “way to the future”, which was more manageable in the dimension and which was also eligible for funding. I'm really allowed to ask: Let us try, as soon as possible, to really set the priorities that need to be set. The EU enlargement is ahead of us, and this means that 70 percent of freight traffic will be expected to increase. We have to deal with this traffic, and we cannot deal with it against each other, but only with one another. I now come to one of the essential points of truck-road pricing. Unfortunately, there is now a lack of €1.5 billion. If the truck-road pricing had already been introduced under the SPÖ/ÖVP government, we would already have more investment available for these €1.5 billion. Now the whole thing has to be done in a follow-up process. I believe that the 22 cents currently used by the ASFINAG are too few. We have 29 in our concept, which would have made more funding available. The proof that this is so is to me that the Director-General of the ASFINAG has recently meant that the price for the vignette should be doubled. . He has then been pumped back very quickly by you, Mr Federal Minister, and also by you, Mr State Secretary, that has been dissociated. This is a technical opinion of a Director-General, not the political attitude, it was said. – I agree, but that only shows that there is a financial need here. On the topic of transit, I can only say: Mr Federal Minister, try to achieve at least the Copenhagen compromise. If we did that, I think we would have achieved a lot in today's situation. It's not that easy. Railway policy. – I would like to appeal to the Secretary of State, who was asked by the Federal Minister to take care of rail policy: Do not directly govern the company! Don't rule the management! Let the management make proposals! There are a number of very good proposals, in my opinion, which are also heading towards new structures. The Social Democratic Party is also for new structures, is for efficiency in the railways, but is against a demolition and division of the railways. We should find a way that we could go together. Next Topic: Telekom and mail. - Just one sentence: There are now, I believe, already the draft telecommunications law. There is still our proposal that we should change the ex-ante rule into an ex-post rule, so not in advance already do these many processes of testing, but in retrospect look at who does not adhere to free competition, who does not adhere to the rules of the game. It would be a great deal to say, ladies and gentlemen, about transport safety, aviation, shipping, security of transport, transport and the environment, but a number of my colleagues will be talking about the budget today, and I am already looking forward to today's debate on transport and infrastructure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2493	Mr Miedl has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2511	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder! The offer of constructive cooperation is serious from your side, and from our side this is answered with great seriousness. I am looking forward to a cooperative and good cooperation with SPÖ, with the SPÖ Group – in the interests of Austrian road users and their safety! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I now have some transport committees behind me and have to say: When we discuss the transport safety of Austrian road users, it is not only with SPÖ but also with the greens that we have to work well along long distances. There's only a few things that separates us. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Unfortunately the points...!]] Mrs Colleague, I would like to talk about such things; we can argue this through. I have some theses and will devote myself to road safety only today in my discussion contribution, because I think that is necessary. First thesis: The higher the speed, Mrs Colleague, the more accidents happen, with the more serious consequences. If someone makes the effort and looks closely at the statistics, he points out that the traffic accident number one in Austria is obviously the overly high speed. Many believe that traffic controls are sufficient to reduce traffic accidents there or there. That is true in many cases. Where a police officer is standing, the speed is usually reduced, and usually it is the same that the traffic traffic is reduced. I'll give you an example. – In 1999, the Minister of Transport at the time, together with the Minister of the Interior, decided on Pentecost: We want to reduce traffic accidents! There were executives like never before! But what happened? – The road users – the drivers, the motorcyclist, the drivers of vehicles of all kinds – were diverted on side roads, on side-cars, and we had an increased traffic accident! There were more injuries and more deaths than usual. Ladies and gentlemen! Every second hour in Austria, a child dies, and every ninth hour a person dies in road traffic in Austria. If we compare the corresponding Austrian figures with EU numbers, we must note that in the European Union there are 107 deaths per million per year in road transport and 120 more in Austria, i.e. 13 more. – 13 fates, 13 times severe sufferings! Ladies and gentlemen! Those who move on Austria's roads will find that to an extent we do not regulate: There are road signs and mass, there are commands and bans en masse. We have relatively good roads, and we have a lot of roads in very good condition, but still more traffic accidents occur than elsewhere! Ladies and gentlemen! At the latest, we must ask ourselves the question: Is that what we do, right? Shouldn't we take other ways? Is it not a question of deregulation on the broadest level? The signposting forest, the traffic sign regulation forest that we have in Austria, is actually far too dense. We've regulated a lot too much. Of course, the x-te radar device, the thousandth police officer or the x-te tempo limit does not, because there will always be jobs without radar, without police and without traffic signs. What we have to do is: We need to change our mind. We have to get to the people, not the authorities and the police. We have to lay down the responsibility there. We need a higher level of personal responsibility if we really want to change something. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We suggest to road users that the authorities have everything under control. We suggest the police will do that. If a major traffic accident occurs in Austria and I see the media the next day: There it says every time that the authorities and policies have to react accordingly. Rarely are road accidents caused by road accidents themselves. What is actually the main cause of road accidents? I have already pointed out this: increased speed. Who is the most common group? – These are the 15 to 24-year-olds, ladies and gentlemen, a group that should be influenced. Here we have a wrong image. The speed is the image number one. We need to make the security an image number one – even among young people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I was in Ireland last year. Ireland is a beautiful country. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Little traffic!]] Whoever moves through Ireland with the vehicle, Mr. Cot, will notice that there are almost no road signs there. The streets are not as good as in Austria. But if you look at the numbers of traffic accidents, then you can see that the traffic accident development takes a completely different turn there. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to let this day go without getting a few things fixed and asking with you: First point: Deregulation. Second point: Strengthen self-responsibleness. Third point: Of course, we also need control by the executive. As a big appeal to all: We need both the SPÖ Group and the Green Group to simply and simply not allow alcohol, drugs and drugs at the tax. It's not good! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Whatever substances it is, whether cannabis, alcohol or medication, it is not good to steer a vehicle in such a state. I think there is a need for rigorous action by the authorities. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the Greens.]] Thank you, Mr. von der Grünen-Bank, I am glad. Secondly, We should be pedagogically punished. It doesn't make sense if three or four months later a penitentiary flies into the house. I would be in favour of suspecting on the spot and immediately and pedagogically proper misbehavior. Ladies and gentlemen! What we certainly do not need is the so-called traps, as I only recently experienced them on the B 14, after the Kahlenberger village, when you enter Vienna. There's a 70s limitation, a wide road. I drive there at night, and I try to keep the required speeds. Suddenly, there must be a small 50-speed reduction somewhere – and a radar behind it! I wondered when it flashed, and many other drivers will wonder. I left the track again and have to say: These are orders that no one understands. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: How fast did you drive?]] That is what many criticize, because the downfall is in fact unacceptable to road safety. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to let this day pass... – Mrs Colleague, I know you will say something about it. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: How fast did you drive?]] I'd also like to be willing to discuss things with you in a four-eye conversation. I don't want to let the day pass without thanking the executive. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their commitment in this area. This is not an easy task. But I am convinced that we will succeed in this – in the interests of road safety and the people who are moving on our roads.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2665	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2683	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Miedl! Too bad, you told this whole story a little incomplete. For example, we still do not know how fast or how slow you went, which has led you to complain about the controls, but that should not be the starting point of a transport debate to the budget, except for fines. I would also like to say: The purpose of the fines will now be abolished. It's new. In other words, the penalties from traffic monitoring are now used to stop budget holes and are no longer used for transport safety measures. To all these beautiful explanations, what we will do now to make our roads safer, I would like to say: That is what we will have to pray for, because there will obviously be no more money for that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am already in a first deficit area. Pronunciation that we want to halve the deaths of accidents in the next few years. – By the way, that was a very “net” choice of words. I believe that the number of fatalities should be halved. This will not be so easy, and it will not go by itself, ladies and gentlemen, but it will be necessary to take money into your hands, as you will have to inform, because you will have to work with target group specificities and also develop appropriate strategies for information. Ladies and gentlemen! Without that, we will not get out; you have to be clear. Of course, half the number of fatalities does not come from itself. This will require action. Mr Miedl believes that with deregulation alone we do so, that is to say, we do away with all the bans and bans, and people will then suddenly be reasonable, drink nothing more at the tax, drive no more too fast, take no one's priority and not go close – only because there is no transport sign left. - Please apologize: I would not have expected this blue-eyeness from a transport speaker! I'm sorry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mrs Lichtenberger! You know he didn't say that!]] But I would now like to come to some questions which I consider to be forward-looking. One of the main themes of the new, modern transport policy is undoubtedly the relationship between modes of transport. It is also no coincidence that Austria, the Alpine region, the Alpine states, are so strongly talking about in this debate. This relationship between road and rail, for example, has been difficult in freight transport for years. We have constant losses in capacity and share on rail, at least in capacity increases on some routes, but not in the total volume of transport. This is why we have a serious international problem in transit traffic, which is not really new either. Mr Gorbach, I really want to acknowledge that you are trying. They talk to the opponents of the bans to restrict transit traffic at European level. However, we needed this effort three years ago. There might have been something else to save at that time. At the moment, we have noticed that our credibility at European level is so zero that the European Parliament does not even help us again. But of course this also has to do with talking about rail and road, last At the end, however, only roads build that one begs to build further transit routes in the Alpine Convention Area, that one wants to beat more snow through the Alps, and that on the road. In Brussels, of course, it is not considered to be credible if one is to be against the burden of transport. Ladies and gentlemen! This calls for credibility, and this, of course, also means measures to reduce traffic, road transport in favour of rail. This requires a whole package of measures, and I would like to add a few of them here and, contrary to what this government is planning. We need a quality offensive on the rail, which allows goods to be moved to the rails. But what are you doing, Minister? – You are very proud that you double the funds for road construction and increase them slightly for the rail. All that is contained in the general traffic plan – and you honestly admit it from time to time – is fiction. You have projects secured on the road to a degree that goes far beyond what makes sense for transport policy, but you have not even planned the money to carry out the necessary improvements on the rail. This is to be rejected from our point of view, because it is not sustainable and because, from my point of view, it brings transport policy in the completely wrong direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you yourself say that the maintenance costs in heavy traffic will double in the next few years, I must reply: This is a clear sign that you have put much too much on the road and do not want to sit on the track. But obviously you want to continue this path. The funds for the construction of transit cars and highways were doubled within just five years, while the funds for the rails were increased almost half as much. This is not a transport policy, it is still in the style of the 1960s! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need controls on and for ourselves. We also need a check in heavy traffic to finally address the issues of social dumping in the freight sector. It's announced! But there can be You rely on the countries to slow down. They will – I hope – report on how enthusiasticly the countries are reacting to the ASFINAG project's control posts. There would then be the financial obligation of the countries to participate, and there will be a brake, and that is what we are talking about. We will continue to have no controls that we urgently need to put an end to social abuse and social abuse in the freight sector. We have serious problems here, ladies and gentlemen, with which we have to deal. But no, what are you doing? – This budget includes budget sugar, money sugar for the fishermen, so that only the small passenger car itself has to bear the burden for the expansion. That's what you're doing. The freighters get back, the car tax is reduced by 30 percent. [[Abg. May. Where are the sugars?]] Isn't it? Thank God you are doing just that with diesel, because – no coincidence at all – our need is to back up the feeding economy, which has long transferred its money abroad and does not make anything available to local jobs at all. That's what it looks like in this industry! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's a tragedy, but that's it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Controller.]] – Mr Commissioner, you should take a closer look at this. What is happening there in internationally intertwined companies are now tragedies. I can't follow you if you say it's right and necessary to let them grow up a few more money packs so that they don't have a disadvantage out of the toll. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is a completely wrong policy. It hurts the budget, but it also hurts our social fabric, because that is social fraud, what happens. Unregistered drivers – this is also a large-scale tax evasion. Ladies and gentlemen! With this policy you cannot truly achieve a reduction in the traffic burden from heavy traffic. It won't work. I come to the third point: In the field of transport, we unfortunately do not have again what we urgently need to solve the problems of transport in large urban areas, namely a quality offensive, as it would have been announced for public transport. No, we've got the last one. At the end of the day, it's sinking. We have no chance that by means of rail, we can work with bus supplements optimally. That's going back. I can only say: Mr Minister, you are not really interested in local transport, which as a Vorarlberger, where it works half way well, at the federal level, and I wonder why the poor Eastern Austrians do not deserve the same good equipment as Vorarlberger. Minister! Take this to heart and see that we can provide the necessary resources in the large urban areas in Eastern Austria, because we can only solve the transport and climate problems in this way. Praying alone is too little, we must act, and action in this case means increasing public transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2785	Now, Mr Mag. Mag. Mainoni wishes to visit us for 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2803	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I can, of course, do something to replicate the statements made by Mr Lichtenberger. You should not have gone away, Mrs. Staatsse..., Mrs. Lichtenberger – well, as far as I am aware, you were once a Transport State Councillor in Tyrol, and therefore I am surprised that you, especially as regards the renovation, renewal and expansion of the road network, are pretending to be the Jux and Tollery of the Ministry. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Thank you!]] [[Deconstratetive appeal to the Greens]] Once you drive on the motorway, I think there is no one there who rides by Gaudi or for fun there, but these are loud professional drivers. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I'm sure that's not true!]] These are loud drivers who have no alternative, and that is why this expansion is particularly important. However, since this is the budget, I may add a little more. Madam President, you have also aged over the fact that the reference to halving the number of deaths of accidents is similar to that of Sunday's speech for you. First of all, you need an ambitious goal, and you have to work towards that goal. It is quite right if the Federal Minister is to reach this goal. You know very well that a lot has already happened, for example, on the motorways of changing the main rails or whether it is the safeguarding of the counter-traffic areas. But, of course, it is also very important – because you are rolling your eyes – to clarify, especially young people, the information on alcohol and drugs, which always play a very important role in fatal road accidents. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But now to the budget figures, which are as they are presented by you, are not quite correct. The funds for the high-level road network rise – and this is true – from €685 million in 1999 to €1.2 billion in 2003 and €1.3 billion in 2004. There are a lot of projects that are being addressed here, I can only mention them in one way or another: A1 West motorway: three-speed extension Knoten Steinhäusl, Landesborder Oberösterreich–Salzburg; South motorway: four-speed extension between Wiener Neudorf and Guntramsdorf; Mühlkreis Autobahn, the in-house Bindermichl; Innkreis motorway, Pyhrn motorway and so on. But also the topics of Tauern Autobahn/Transit – our colleague Klaus Wittauer will address it even more in detail – construction of the Katschberg tunnel and the Tauern Tunnel, involving the demands of the anrainers, especially Zederhaus, are an important part of our future transport development. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the subject of rail – I can only talk about it very briefly; not because it is not important, quite the contrary, the promotion of public transport clearly has priority in this ministry too –: In 1999 it was €900 million, in 2003 there are € 1.1 billion and in 2004 there will be € 1.1 billion available for expansion. These are numbers that speak for themselves. If the Vienna-Linz route has only one hour of 32 minutes to be calculated today, this is already a great success and leads to some being able to get away from the road and to use the public transport rail. Research and development, offensive programme – which is also clearly to be read in the budget – and additional €600 million in 2004 to 2006. Of course, we have the ambitious goal of increasing the research rate to a total of 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product. In order to complement this, telecommunications: The Telecommunications Act has happened to the Council of Ministers, so it will soon come to the House for advice. It is a milestone in telecommunications history, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I just mentioned a few points now. My colleague Anton Wattaul will focus on the road transport sector, where there are, of course, some of the problems we have to deal with. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important areas that are summarized in this ministry, and I think we are working well with the two gentlemen in this ministry to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2884	Mr Gorbach has now spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2902	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr State Secretary! Mrs State Secretary, who is also interested in transport today, I am very pleased! Today is a very pleasant day, I would like to stress. I hope that the mood that existed at the beginning of this debate can not only be continued and maintained today, but can also be brought into the common transport policy of the next few years, because transport policy has no ideological mesh, it should not have it either, but we have enough challenges to deal with together. I would be pleased if, on the occasion of my very first speech here in the House, my invitation would be accepted and understood to be very open to discussion on the way in which the objectives can be achieved, because the objectives we want to achieve are obviously the same – and I have also taken the first statements from the speakers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take a very brief look at the comments made, because they are actually very good at giving an overview of the projects of the Minister of Transport and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure. We already had the opportunity to discuss some detail in the Transport Committee and in the Budget Committee. Mr Eder, this open cooperation or exchange of views with you as the spokesperson of the major opposition party is and remains very important to me. I would like to continue. I believe that this is a good start, and it is an honest concern of me that we continue to work well on transport issues, especially because in the east, but also – and that is what I am saying to Mrs Lichtenberger – in the southeast of Austria there is a particularly great need for follow-up, both in terms of road and rail. You mentioned the word Road-Pricing, Mr Eder, and also the height of road pricing. I note that I meant in the first rounds with representatives of the economy and industry who have to remain 22 cents of the average price, because we absolutely need the 600 million € per year forecast of revenue from this road pricing in order to be able to implement the general transport plan or the projects in the general transport plan on a timely basis. Rather, we should consider how we can prefer some important project without additional funds, but also, of course, with less, and with new, intelligent funding possibilities – the PPP keyword – especially in view of the background not only of EU enlargement and enlargement, but also of EU enlargement as a whole. Forward: Keywords Southeastern Austria, Carinthia, Styria do not forget. However, in the same breath, I also promised that the heavy traffic tax should be past and that we must reduce the car tax as a contribution to the economy, to industry, but also to the transport industry, Mrs Lichtenbergerer. I believe it is important that we also recognize that the transport of goods is an important matter, not only for prosperity but also for the preservation of jobs. From this point of view, one should also see and recognize this. I mean, however, that we, as a whole – and I do not only announce this, but that is a very serious concern – in the road pricing sector after the introduction phase 2004, when it works properly and works well, from 2005 onwards – that is, in preparation already in 2004 – we should implement an ecologisation of the system, that is, those who are on the road with low-pollutant trucks are rewarded and those who are on the road with harmful trucks – such ones are still there, we know that they come mainly from abroad and transit through our country – to pay the corresponding amounts that make it uninterestful in the time to drive these trucks through Austria. That's what I'm saying. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am pleased that both the government parties and the opposition party clearly recognise my real effort to achieve a transitional solution, a follow-up solution to the resulting transit agreement in the transit question. In fact, it's difficult. Mr Eder, the Copenhagen compromise or the Danish compromise or the New Year's compromise, whatever the case may be, could certainly be described as a success, even if we expect more due to the primarily promised things at the beginning of the transit contract, i.e. a 60 per cent reduction in pollutant and a number limit, 108 per cent clause, on the one hand. Both were not met by 100 percent, so we would have a moral right. If someone here has spoken about the credibility of Austria's transport policy towards the EU, I am speaking vice versa of the EU's credibility with Austria, not only in transport policy. I say on every occasion that with a successor to the transit agreement we have a right to do so, we have a right to do so! – the credibility of the EU in transport policy, in particular, but also in policy in general, is at stake. This has to be said to friends within the EU simply because Austria is in a special situation and Austria has a right to reduce this pollutant emissions at least. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I therefore strongly defended myself in the last EU Council of Ministers in Luxembourg when I also received allegations from the transport Commissioner in relation to the Tyrolean measures, which I then defended, first of all because they are compatible with EU law, and secondly because they are emergency measures, and because I was able to distribute material from the WHO, which showed the disastrous effects – that is, undisputed – of these pollutants on the health of the people living on transit routes, especially those of children. The discussion has become a little more serious after we had these figures on the table. I will not get tired of spreading these numbers as much as possible – you know them – and I will not tire of defending emergency measures if we do not find a whole great solution. Road cost directive means the right keyword. Mrs. Lichtenberger, I am of your opinion: We should try to achieve cross-financing in the direction of rail via the Road Cost Guidelines, because funding is indeed the problem. We have a huge need for follow-up to rail infrastructure and the cross-border rail structure. Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖBB has been mentioned by SPÖ Transport Spokesman Eder. I do not want to say too much about this except that I am pleased that the colleague and State Secretary Mag, who is serving with a special mandate for the ÖBB reform, is Mag. Kukacka is obviously very good on the road, even as far as time is concerned. So I'm glad that our project, starting at 1. January 2004 to be able to implement the ÖBB reform, which, of course, will be discussed openly and extensively in advance, seems to be a reality. I'm just saying three short sentences. It is not, of course, intended to crush the ÖBB, just as the trade union representative constantly co-ports. It is intended to structure the ÖBB new, modern, make the responsibilities clearer, more visible, make the results more visible, so that one also knows where the strengths and weaknesses of the ÖBB are, on the one hand, to be able to expand the core competences and on the other hand to reduce or evenise the weaknesses. That is what every modern company is doing, and I believe that the ÖBB should be a modern company in the future, with which we can all have a great deal of joy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Transport safety is a favorite issue of mine, which is also found in the National Safety Plan. There are very many objectives in this, but I have added one thing: To reduce the number of dead on Austrian roads must be a command of the hour. 956 dead in 2002 are simply too many, but if we look at other figures because we have to think European, we have to note that there are over 40 000 dead on European roads each year. This must be a reason to think about how we can increase security. I just mention one example: We have taken action such as the multi-phase driver's license, which is aimed at those age groups, namely those 18 to 24 years old, which appear most problematic in terms of traffic accidents statistics, including those with a fatal outcome. It is also necessary to raise awareness of belting. You need to know that the possibility or probability of the serious injury of a non-fermented passenger is nine times as high as with a strapped. For the driver this is the factor 5. So you also have to co-port, control these things, but you have to make it clear in advance why it is important to get dressed. The action against driving under alcohol or drug influence is known to you to continue. I have set an additional focus by setting up a working group dedicated to trucks. I don't want to defuse the trucks, but it's unmistakable that many trucks are involved in accidents with serious injuries and fatal exits, and that's why we should stop there, as I mean. Mrs Lichtenberger, of course the social moment plays a major role. I therefore very much welcome and support the ASFINAG control site plan and will continue to do so. We will also use the truck inspection trains more and more efficiently – in accordance with those of the countries – because it is not possible to overlook 45 percent of all trucks being controlled. At 5 percent – this is relatively much – the numbering plate must be cut off. The trucks can no longer continue because the brakes do not work or because the tyres are in a catastrophic condition or because simply the safety is not given. Statistics can be found that 80 percent of all trucks on Austria's high-performance roads, say motorways and highways, are too fast on the road. It is only 19 percent for the passenger car, while 80 percent for the truck. We also need to know that we are putting in place measures to increase safety, especially where the accident frequency is high, such as in the construction site area around tunnels, tunnels and tunnels. We use the so-called section control, i.e. we use not only radars that previously slow down and then return gas, but that we control entire sections. We also announce this in order to clarify the road users: Look out here, we're in control of this! They are important in traffic – this is awareness-building – so they have to be fit, watch out, comply with the rules and more! I believe that we are on the road together, and I would also be pleased about your support in this regard. Mr Miedl, you have mentioned a word that has been my favorite word for a long time and may also be back: Deregulation. As a country politician, I have always said that we must do everything, not only explain federalism as important, but also make centralism a part of the past and deregulate and decentralize. Deregulation is something very important, also in the transport sector. The signpost was mentioned as an example. I believe, Mr Miedl, that we are on the road together to make improvements in terms of road safety. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is not, Mrs Lichtenberger, that we spend money on the road, but we have none for the rail. I don't like to repeat, but I have to do it, and I don't hate to quote the general traffic plan. This is my basis for work, nor is it agitated, there is a maximum preference if we have new financing models. The General Transport Plan includes 0, i.e. projects under construction, €1.6 billion for the road and € 5.3 billion for the rail. That's, like I mean, a good relationship. The 1 package – to be implemented by 2010 – provides for 12.4 billion rails and 4.7 billion roads. A total of 45 billion are estimated for projects in the general transport plan, of which 30 billion or two-thirds are for the rail, one-third for the road and 0.5 billion for the waterway. I believe that this is a good division, which is also recognised by the EU when I discuss transit follow-up arrangements. If you say that there are no major projects in progress, I can tell you: The sub-inntal light with a total volume of 1 billion € is under construction, the Brenner base tunnel is as far as ever. I signed with Lunardi a memorandum from 1 January. It is important to take it seriously on April. The Brenner base tunnel has a volume of 4.5 billion buildings. So there's a lot going on there. In conclusion: Mrs. Lichtenberger, I was not in vain last weekend in Prague to talk to my colleagues there about the overall very neglected, cross-border infrastructure rail – keyword: Summerauerbahn – talk and talk about how we can speed this up. I have also concluded a very good consensus with him, namely that the railway projects in this area are forced and the road should not be forgotten in addition. To sum up, I say: We have to stop playing the road against the track. We both need: the one area, the rail, a little more, supplementing the road sector, because we also need to pass through the road, which again provides for more quality of life in order to be able to meet the modality requirements and wishes of the future. They have in me an ally who will be expanding the railway infrastructure more in the next few years and will give the road where it is still necessary and where there is a need to catch up, and will give the public transport overall the highest attention. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2989	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. Preferred speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3009	Ladies and gentlemen! If someone plans to film a film about the Vienna post-war period, he has found an optimal setting at the Vienna Südbahnhof, but it is not only visually, but also functionally and structurally still a lot to do at the future railway station in Vienna, as well as in the eastern region. Unfortunately, it is not financially covered by many of the projects in this respect in the general transport plan, and therefore the discussion is actually about which projects are now being resettled and which are not, relatively necessary. The region of Vienna has to become a heavy node in the trans-European networks, because otherwise economic development will not only pass through the region of Vienna, but across Austria, especially with regard to enlargement of the EU. [[Abg. Scheibner: You've missed that for decades!]] What to do, for example, Mr Scheibner, is that the high-speed network and the Pottendorfer line have to be expanded to offer more attractive public transport to the commuters to Vienna. [[Abg. Scheibner: One has known for 20 years that this must happen!]] Especially in the south of Vienna, because there are also many commuters, the modal split has to be improved, which is currently towards the west of public transport. What to do is to build the Laaberg Tunnel and the freight terminals Inzersdorf and Freudnau, which are just as missing as the long packed Park & Ride facilities in the Vienna area. The works on the Lainzer Tunnel are also currently more than foam-restrained. There is also no commitment to federal participation in the fourth stage of the expansion of the Vienna metro network, and there is a lack of a financing concept for the so important north-east of Vienna. But I am glad that, on the initiative of the city of Vienna, something is moving at the central railway station and private-public partnership models are being considered. It is true that an area of 55 hectares is available, which the city of Vienna will certainly be dedicated to, if contractually defined, that the gains of dedication flow into the expansion of the Vienna railway station and are not used to stop any budget holes, because for this the money is too valuable. We are now talking about about about €40 million to be won through this development of the inner urban areas, and I think that it is already possible to start a lot for the station in Vienna, for the central railway station. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, I am concerned about a little Mr Finz, who unfortunately is on the brake, as most of the time, when it comes to the future of Vienna, but I hope that Mr Finz will eventually give up his secondary job as a braker and that important transport, urban planning and infrastructure measures can be put in place for the Eastern Region in general and specifically for my home district. [[Abg. Scheibner: There have already been others slowing down lately!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3083	The next speaker is Mrs Mag Frieser. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3101	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The budget chapter X includes: Not only the transport sector, but also the innovation and technology sectors, and let me briefly draw attention to these two areas. At the Federal Government Economic Summit in December 2001, the objective was to increase the Austrian research rate to 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product. This target formulation should strengthen and strengthen the competitiveness of the Austrian economy, position Austria as a research-intensive location within the European Union and within the OECD countries and thereby improve Austria's standard of living. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Important progress has already been made in this direction. Within the European Union, Austria rose on average, i.e. 1.88 percent of GDP, and lies in front of countries such as Italy, Norway and the UK. With a current research rate of 1.96 percent of GDP, Austria alone has since 1995 – at that time we had only a research rate of 1.57 percent of GDP – carried out a considerable catch-up. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria was also able to improve its position on the European research programmes on a sustainable basis. ==References====External links== It was only 72 percent of the possible resources to be recovered from Austria, as reported in the 5th Framework Programme. Framework programme already 100 percent, in absolute terms the €300 million. I should also like to remind you that the federal states have increased their research expenditure by 69 percent in recent years and are currently at a level of € 260 million. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2002, Austrian research expenditure amounted to €4.2 billion. In this context, it is particularly thanks to the Austrian entrepreneurs who have significantly increased their research expenditure in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Currently, the proportion of expenditure of companies in Austrian research is about 60 percent. A look at our neighbouring countries proves that there is still “space” here to reach the internationally usual 66 percent. The opposition criticises forested and sometimes very loud that this Federal Government has extended the period for achieving the objective of increasing the research rate to 2.5 percent of GDP by one year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, listen! Think about it and then talk! That's what your criticism is all about. Of the technology billions from 1997 to 2001, only 95.6 percent were absorbed – this is the problem. This is a sign that the technology offensive has largely exploited absorption power in Austria in the field of the research landscape, or that the technology offensive has made too many resources available to the research market too quickly. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Another index: With the technology billions the Federal Government launched an export promotion programme, but these resources were also not fully exploited by the domestic economy. Only 68 percent of the funding amount was used. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Not only in the budget are efforts by the German government to increase Austria's research rate to 2.5 percent. If the deductibility of research expenditure in incomes is VAT is increased if the deductibility of internal training costs is made possible and the study fees can be reduced taxly, this Federal Government proves in a very impressive way that it is a heart concern for Austrian research, training and further education.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3194	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3213	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear former Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Half a dozen are full, and there is an additional State Secretary. I am experiencing the sixth Minister of Transport, and now he is practically acting in the double pack. Perhaps there is a reason for hope, especially in view of the background, Mr Minister, because you have spoken of a relatively ideology-free approach. I am curious about how far this can be realized and to what extent you are unbiased by the facts, namely, the facts of efficiency. Mr State Secretary, you have known for a long time, we have often discussed this: It is essential to make the transport system more efficient. I think we'll find a common base. The difference is, however, that you do not usually take real costs into account and we repeatedly point out that our transport system is therefore very inefficient because the real costs are not charged to the transport system. If we had the market economy – Mr Wattaul, you are a representative and in this direction always on the road – in the sense of cost-truth in transport, it would look quite different. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: No, no!]] Remember that! Not only because there have been six transport ministers, but also because there have been the VCÖ for 15 years, some brochures of this research association, taken from this NGO on the topic of "health risk from diesel gases". Minister! Consideration You are free of ideology in your transport policy account, in your transport policy balance also the health costs, the sickness costs incurred due to a wrong transport system, an inefficient transport system. Mr State Secretary! The traffic noise costs almost € 2 billion per year. [[The speaker keeps a brochure up to date.]] They themselves were thanks to the VCÖ and may also have created motivation and can now approach the implementation of efficient transport policy more ambitiously. [[Abg. Scheibner: But we can't read this on the distance!]] We cannot afford to increase traffic noise to such an extent, because it is also dangerous to health. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mrs Colleague, we have not seen what is on the paper!]] That is why I am grateful that we will then be talking to Mr Greenewald, who can also give you examples of this. Next point: You all, ladies and gentlemen, have recently found the 2002 Ozone Report in your Parliamentary post. [[Abg. Scheibner: You show us...! It's too far away!]] Leave it and you will notice that there is an ozone problem, even now during the heat phase. Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, you will have noticed for yourself that the ozone exposure has increased, there have already been pre-alarm levels. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does this mean?]] What's in the ozone report? You only need to read on page 61: Further emission reductions can be expected, for example, by reducing the emission limits in the transport sector or by increasing the use of renewable energy sources under eco-power laws. - Quote. “To be expected”! – This is very optimistic. But please, Mr State Secretary, Minister, do something about ozone protection – towards climate protection anyway! You know better than I do, because you travel every day in the department, that the challenge of climate protection is bad in the more efficient design of our transport system, that is, the reduction of pollutants. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Minister, you yourself have taken the word ‘damage minimization’ into your mouth. Contamination of pollutants is a bottom line, not only across the EU, but also nationally. If we are to be respected across the EU – and you also say that the EU has a reputation to lose; vice versa also agrees – the main aim is to reduce pollutants, reduce health and reduce road accidents in the first place. Mr Miedl, you are talking best with your social colleague. I would just like to mention that you have forgotten your driver's license with your road safety driver. I called on you, but unfortunately you did not take up this constructive contribution. You know exactly, traffic signs are secondary, essential are controls, and central are the consequences. If driving licence withdrawal threatens, people will be very different. Then there will certainly be this level of transport behaviour – as in Sweden or other countries where the number of road fatalities is declining; much lower than with us – in Austria too. I give you the right to do so, but you have to take effective action. This is the one aspect I wanted to address to you. Mr Verkehrsminister, I take up your word ‘ideologically free’ once again. I read a “beautiful” interview from you in the VCÖ magazine saying that the Nordbahn is, for example, “one of the best-trassed railways in the country”. – Yes, it is true, and “of course, the general transport plan in this area also provides for the North motorway, because it does not exist at all.” When your ideology is a good train, Mr. Transport Minister, but in a row there is a good road, a motorway – as if there were not enough roads – then this is a trick. Minister! The cars are already driving, and the railway should have an advantage in terms of efficient design of freight and passenger transport. In your interview, you give more or less signals – I think, subjectively – in the wrong direction. [[Abg. Grossruck: No, that's not true!]] Therefore, you have rightly mentioned your visit to the Czech Republic and the consensual approach to the expansion of the Summerauerbahn. Only you should honestly mention in the same breath, just in the same sentence that you build the S 10. This is a motorway, similar to the one in Lower Austria, on the eastern border, which S 10, the Council of State Hiesl considers to be his life's work, because he wants to open every single curve specifically. You can read this in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”, he is a particularly “ideology-free” transport politician. [[Abg. Grandruck: This is a good man!]] Against this background, we would like to make the following request to Greens in the sense of your foreign activity: [[Quoted print version removed]] This concerns efficient transport policy with regard to sustainability, cost minimisation and health protection! You should carry this with us. Coming to the end: You, Mr Minister, mentioned public transport, your pleas for putting your commitment into space. - Yes, we support you. But think of the disabled too! They need accessible access to public transport. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You may be able to read the reader's letter in the "standard" again, in which it says how a lady – it was a disabled literatin – made reservations by driving the west railway, finally was miserable – I think somewhere on the way – and had difficulties with the exit et cetera. Mr State Secretary, I do not think I need to repeat this to you again. I assume that you will strive to increase the sensitivity of both the company and its staff in the sense of the ÖBB reform, but mostly the creatives are friendly, very friendly even. The infrastructure still has two aspects – I have talked a lot about transport – namely telecommunications and mail. These are other important elements in your department. This is an area of general interest, although research has already moved in the other direction, towards education. With regard to postage infrastructure: Please be careful, Minister, that the postal law does not create a two-tier division, a two-class company at postal tariffs in Austria! The rates for letters et cetera may not be higher in the country than in the city. I know that liberalisation and competition exist in the densely populated settlement areas, but the post has to ensure this universal service – even if it is a fund that you set up – in order to ensure a level playing field for the population in the regions and in the countryside. The same applies to telecommunications. Tag ‘Broadband’. We will talk about this in the Committee. Remember the Telecommunications Act – the Secretary of State knows, that is my subject – also the health aspect, which is particularly the subject of radiation pollution! There we have to use a corresponding legal target catalogue, with an emission register and also with provisions on it – what does that mean? – non-ionizing radiation in an overall law, together with the environmental sector. That would be a few requests I'm still making to you. Of course, I conclude, as it should be, with the hope that, in the sense of a detideological and efficient transport policy, you will pick up many of these suggestions and really cut them into where it is necessary – where ideology is located, namely among the lawns, with the speedy drivers, with the blindly angry asphaltists and the blind-hearted drivers. [[Abg. May. Regulator: It's with you!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3388	The request made by Dr. Lichtenberger, Dr. Moser, colleagues, regarding priority for rail instead of road projects at the TEN-Neuve deal is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Wattaul has now come to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3409	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I am also in favour of the cooperation of all parties. I believe that transport policy should be in the background of party policy. We have done quite good things in the past, especially with Mr Eder. But: Regarding road pricing, he said we should have introduced this in 1999. I say, however, that it is right that we have been waiting because we now have an efficient and just system. We would not have brought in the funds that Mr Eder says we are missing, because the other system is so expensive that nothing would have been left under the line. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I'm sure that's not true!]] The calculation can be seen in such a way that the price can naturally be calculated according to construction, maintenance and financing costs. We know that there is a slightly higher price in Austria than in Germany. This has to do with the fact that our motorways are not as strong as those in Germany. I believe that this price is fair, in the context of the fact that every carrier must pay the same price, because that is a question of fair competition. It's not, however, Mrs. Lichtenberger, as you said, and that really hurt me. This is a question of the credibility of politics. You said here today that the sparklers are going to waste the money packs. – We know that the road pricing is about 22 cents per kilometer on average. And 22 cents alone are the personnel costs for one truck per kilometer! This is already very significant for the Austrian transport industry, but of course also for the international transport industry. You should stick to the truth! This is also a question of the credibility of politicians. Imagine, a nurse hears what you're saying! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To the transit in Tyrol. That too is a question of credibility. It is true that we have a lot of transit traffic in Austria. I know the mountain situation of course brings difficulties, but for comparison: Only around 5,600 trucks per day drive in both directions via the Brenner in Tyrol. If there are any governments in the EU, they ask: What do they want at all? We have 18 000 trucks in transit on the West motorway, and if you see those figures from Tyrol, you don't understand the problem. But it must be argued in such a way that it is understood in the EU too! Just a little bit more about Tyrol. If you don't let the trucks drive at night, it causes a traffic jam that accumulates all night long. Then, in the early morning, the trucks drive away in traffic congestion, in the stop-and-go traffic, there are more exhaust gases, a higher exhaust gas load, and in addition, the trucks meet exactly with the professional traffic. This is for me the most unintelligent solution there is at all. I would suggest that the truck should be allowed to drive at night if there is little traffic if it is running running at 60 km/h. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: We have been discussing this for 20 years!]] You know very well: The noise caused by a car with 110 km/h and a truck with 60 km/h is exactly the same. You just don't understand. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes! Yes! The problem lies with you!]] I'll tell you: In the stop-and-go traffic, these trucks consume up to 100 litres of diesel at 100 kilometres only through these traffic jams. That's really the most intelligent thing you can do. With regard to ecologisation, I give you the right, Mr Minister, but in road pricing one should pay attention not only to ecologisation but also to transport-controlling measures. What do I mean by that? – One should ask for higher tariffs for trucks in special storage times, for example in occupational traffic, so that the trucks, as I said at first, drive at night or in the day at times when traffic is less. It's all right, isn't it? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And, on the other hand, with regard to ecologisation: The Euro-3 and Euro-4 trucks should be allowed to drive, this will also be done in Germany. The motor vehicle tax is also such a thing. It is claimed that the motor vehicle tax is paid to truck operators. The truth is, due to the delay in the introduction of the road pricing, a billion € per year of car tax was taken more, the car tax was doubled with the notice that when the road pricing comes, it will be lowered again. This is not a gift, but it was an intermediate of the transport industry. On the whole, I would like to say the following: It is important not to play out modes of transport, but to take all modes of transport into account, in the light of the fact that we are no longer living on an island alone in Austria, but in the EU. “In the EU” means that the rules must be harmonised, one must deregulate, and competition for the economy must be quite the same in every country in Europe, otherwise one will never come to a road transport system or to a rail transport system that actually has an output that can be financed. We have seen this in the social legislation. I thank Mrs. Forstinger. [[Abg. Eder: Who is this?]] She introduced that at the time, it's been since 1. ==References== There's a driver's license now. Maybe you don't know: ==References== March – and who did that in the EU? – each non-EU driver must carry a driver’s licence. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: EU Directive!]] Therefore, there is no driver who – like this company from Luxembourg, whose owners were recently sentenced for exploiting these people – has no driver's license. I would like to see the checks carried out by experts in this context. And another word about the controls: We've heard today, 5 percent of trucks have to be stopped. There are those vehicles weighing 4.3 tonnes and more; they are no longer allowed to continue, if they are overloaded, because the technical requirement is not given. That's a little relative, because technically, the vehicles are fine. [[Abg. Oils: What does that mean? What's that supposed to mean? Do you want to continue?]] One more word for street administration. I ask the two gentlemen on the government bank to talk to the street administrations once. I notice that every time I go to Vienna every Monday, the street administration mowers in the strongest traffic, that is, on Monday in the morning, the road edges. I don't think that's necessary because there's always a trail locked. You should do this in times of poor traffic. It is really not happening when you start mowing the road edges or cutting the plants during the main traffic time. You should coordinate this a little bit better. I would like to say one more thing – maybe it's a bit superfluous, but I'm saying it anyway: Since we all know that we are now in the EU, there is, of course, the overall problem of the network in the EU, whether it concerns road transport, rail, waterways, air traffic or electricity. All of this is a network problem, against the background of the shortage of these networks. This should really be looked at across the EU. It doesn't make sense to propose any island solutions. I myself drive to Freiburg every year, where good seminars are offered. If you were going there one day, Mrs. Lichtenberger, you would know yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3532	The next speaker is Mrs Binder. Preferred speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3551	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Miedl, you have complained about the signpost that we find in Austria. The next meeting of the Committee on Transport is to be held; I invite you, also in connection with my request, to limit the right-free space at the additional plates on the road signs, perhaps also to make a small contribution to solving the problem of the number of signs in road transport. Ladies and gentlemen! Transport policy and transport safety are closely linked. I would therefore like to devote myself to road safety. How does the accident report look? – She speaks a clear and very clear language. There has been a slight increase in the number of accidents and injuries, a rapid increase in alcohol-influenced accidents and a growing risk of pedestrians. The Austrian Transport Safety Programme foresees a reduction in the number of road fatalities by 50 percent by 2010. Unfortunately, the opposite is the case at present, as shown by the reports of the Transport Safety Board. Dr. Othmar Thann says: We must work hard to increase road safety. Accident prevention and awareness-raising is our highest limit. - Quote. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria, ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely final in the EU comparison with the number of accidents – in the negative sense. That means it's a lot to do, because the losers are clearly the unprotected road users. Which groups are particularly vulnerable? – On the one hand, pedestrians, more than half of those affected are over 64 years old. A solution would be strict compliance with and control of speed in the local area, as well as compliance with the provisions relating to pedestrian crossings and zebra strips. There are often great dangers for older ladies and gentlemen. It is also apparent that there is an increase in alcohol-influenced accidents. In 2002 alone, 92 people were killed in this way. Consciousness, campaigns and precise controls should be carried out and forced. Men still have belt sleeves in front of all things. 80 per cent of women and 74 per cent of men beat themselves; and 27 per cent of all road deaths were unattended and unsecured. One important point to avoid accidents is certainly also the forced rehabilitation of accidents. In total, ladies and gentlemen, this is a bundle of measures that need to be implemented and implemented. However, I also think, above all, that the promotion and promotion of public transport is essential in order to achieve a relief in road transport, in individual transport. The improvement and expansion of the public transport network is therefore essential – a task which the Minister and the Secretary of State must also take. The destruction, filleting or privatisation of the ÖBB as a future perspective is clearly the wrong way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Controller.]] Mr Collegue, also the public Transport must be a little worth to the state, as do many other areas. [[Abg. May. Control: Is it too!]] It's about the people who use these transports, not about my person. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Safety, punctuality and durability are the three characteristics that are very important to people and that must continue to be ensured.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3603	Mrs. Colleague! Your folder is getting very nervous about the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3619	Thank you, Mr President. – In the interests of greater road safety and the protection of road users, it is important to implement three key priorities: increased road safety, shift of freight to rail and a public transport network connecting people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3646	Mr Lopatka is next speaker. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3664	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should now like to return from the area of transport to the area which, in this budget chapter, has the importance for me of infrastructure on and on its own, perhaps even a greater importance, namely technology, innovation and research. I think we can be satisfied with what we can decide from the budget here, because it will be a special financial effort in the next few years when we will have additional €600 million more for research and development in 2004. This is, after all, an increase of 20 per cent compared to the funds planned for this area in 2000. We are here on a good way to achieve a great goal. This major objective is to increase the research and development rate to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product by 2006. This is a quota which is also necessary to achieve the overall objective of the government, namely to position Austria within the enlarged Europe, within the Europe of 25, on the top three. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We want to achieve this by means of an additional budget of the individual funds. The Research Fund and the Science Research Fund will be improved. At least €55 million more in liquid funds will be available for these two funds in the future. However, a very important area in addition to public support is what the economy itself is able to contribute here. It is gratifying for our small and medium-sized enterprises to cut off in Europe's internal innovation. Nearly 60 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria have a very good performance in the field of innovation, while within the EU this average is only 40 percent. But we still need further progress in the private sector, because at present the public share of research is still 49 percent, so we have a ratio of 1: 1. The aim is, however, to reach a ratio of 1 : 2. In the future, the public share should be only more in a ratio of 1 : 2 to the private share. I should like to mention once again the cornerstones of our strategy: A clear commitment to research and development, an increase in the research rate to 2.5 percent of GDP by 2006. Despite the necessary stabilisation of the budget, we spend €600 million more on research and development, and we increase the research allowance from 10 to 15 percent. This is very important because we want to motivate private individuals to invest more money in research. In addition to the research allowance, there will also be an alternative premium to allow all entrepreneurs access to research and development. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is only with one sentence that it is said: The research report also points to these encouraging developments. Quantity is not quality and cannot replace quality, but a triple of the publications is something positive. We are on the right track here and will continue to establish ourselves as a research country within the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3732	Mr Greenewald. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speaking time: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3752	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I am also glad that Mr Lopatka is still present. Mr Gorbach, you have spoken in the Committee on Budgets about how you want to become and be a minister of research. They laid the latte very high. But I mean, In the absence of other alternatives I have now experienced, such as gutters and bowls, this would be at least a small spark of the principle hope, and I therefore believe that one should talk about it. Why? – On the basis of what I have now heard from Mr Lopatka, I must say: It continues what gourds, bowls, hakl and brinek preach to us without a break. They are the right world class in the threshing of phrases and promises and in the twisting of real budget numbers. That can't be! Repeating words is also unbearable in the scientific sector! [[Abg. Grossruck: We are in Parliament!]] We are in Parliament, yes, but there should also be science and truth, Mr Grossruck! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Also!]] You say “even” – not just, you might say! – The house mind, too, is enough. [[Abg. Großruck: But also the house mind!]] I'd be glad if you had these, because then you could follow me. Minister Gorbach! It will be difficult for you to revive all the broken promises of the Federal Government, so to speak, and to keep the “patient research” vital. If I were to put something under your arms as a doctor, I might not be ungrateful, in any case it would be worth a try. Let's set the first rule of revitalization. She says: clear diagnosis – without pink glasses! – And I am now quoting from the “first aid script” of the Economic Research Institute. They write the following, Mr Lopatka: Private and public expenditure on research and development should be increased by 50 percent in order to achieve the high target of 2.5 percent of GDP for research and development by 2006. However, the budget papers of the Federal Government account for only 16 percent, and 16 goes in 50 three times. In other words, you would have to triple your efforts to make a necessary investment sum of €3 billion available by the year 2006. That means: These are for the public sector, if you want to take your relations back, €1.2 billion. However, the increase is currently only 16 percent. Tell me you have to triple it! These statements by the Institute of Economic Research are probably correct and should also be comprehensible and understood with the house mind, Mr Grossruck! – Their call went down in the thunderous applause of Karl Oellinger, so I did not understand him. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: There are also countries and communities! Forget it!]] Second rule: Heart-circuit stabilisation, because without oxygen supply, the brain lives on spa flames. – Now I know, with a brain on spa flame you can still make PR, install homepages, you can also somehow preach and fantasize on a low level world class, but doing research with a brain on spa flame, that won’t work. Now we replace the oxygen molecule for research with the budget molecule Euro, and then we see: There is a lack of high-caloric infusions, and that is massive, Mr Lopatka! Tell the truth! I have to tell you: Phrases have no nutritional value! Phrases are not medicine! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I now quote the statistics Austria and the Council for Research and Technology Development, as controversies – if Mr Großruck thinks I am lacking in the sense of the house he has in excess: The government's target of reaching 2.5 percent of GDP by 2006 is far away. – In the songbook of the Federal Government – bowl with guitar, Gehrer sings – there may be: All luck is so close, but I have to say: It's not as close as you preach! [[Abg. Großruck: “Bad people don’t know any songs!”]] The main responsibility, says Statistics Austria and the government-appointed Council for Research and Technology Development, is the stagnation of federal research and development expenditure, which is only 0.3 percent. This corresponds to a real budget decline in GDP. What you have said, however, sounds quite different, Mr Lopatka! The economy – now I have to say something positive about the economy – has an increase of 4.3 percent. I come to the close slowly and hear the calls of a holiday Federal Minister Gehrer and Schüssels, who may be sponsored by the Industrial Association. [[Abg. Großruck: How do you make sure she's on vacation?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Yes! I said, maybe! Opportunities always exist! Do you understand a satire? – You’re not on vacation at all! Good. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] The calls for call are as follows: Austria on the right track in research and development policy! And Gehrer says: Stop the pity at last! – The “patient research” is tormenting the eyes and becoming pale. The most important research institutions are the universities and the large funding institutions FWF and FFF. What am I listening to intermediate calls? – The argument that one should resolve reserves – it has been denied by everyone that such a thing is possible – and the truly and truly encouraging word of the Federal Minister: It'll be all right! – But the “patient” becomes even more pale. But that's not how it will be, the experts say – everyone! – and I just quoted a fraction of it. The university budgets are stagnating to decline, at least this year. The FWF has major financing difficulties that stagnate FFF. - Who says that? – The Court of Auditors and the IHS! And if still, the patient, Minister Gorbach, says: That's world class, then it's all over. – I hope it doesn’t get that far, Minister. Maybe we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3900	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Preferred speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3918	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Grünewald, I am very sure that we do not need a first aid case for research and development policy, because the key data given in the research report show very well that these are not just phrases, but that the research and development landscape in Austria does not look so bad. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Since the beginning of the 1990s, research expenditure has shown an average growth rate of 4.7 percent, which means that they are developing dynamically much faster than those in the OECD and EU averages. In concrete terms, that means: Our research expenditure grew twice as fast as that in the EU average. The total economic expenditure for research and development was over €4.2 billion in 2002 according to a statistical estimate Austria – and there are certainly no phrases indicating this institution. The R & D rate has also risen steadily: from 1.56 percent in 1995 to 1.95% in 2002. This means that Austria is in the middle of the field. However, efforts must be made to ensure that we are among the top countries. Ladies and gentlemen! The costs for research and development are crucial, because they are an engine for boosting the economy and are in a long-term relationship with growth, productivity development and the level of per capita income of a country. We have heard today that the Federal Government has set a very ambitious goal of increasing the research and development rate to 2.5 percent of GDP by 2006 and also to reach among the TOP 5 in the EU on innovation strength. You can be sure that the Federal Government will make very great efforts to achieve this goal. Measures are already being taken for this, such as the Federal Government's offensive programme, the special funding for research and technology, which amounts to €509 million for the period 2001 to 2003. This offensive programme will continue, and 600 million € will be available for research and technology between 2004 and 2006. In the overall 2003 budget, €1.5 billion will be made available for research and innovation, and in 2004 even slightly more, €1.6 billion. This means an increase of 24 percent compared to 1999. The funds have also been increased. For example, over €100 million will be available for research and technology in the FFF and the FWF. But the whole money, even if it is still so much, is of course bad when it is hard to reach these funds, and it is therefore necessary to improve and reorientate research promotion systems. The support structure must provide optimum conditions for the promoters, and therefore there must be an increase in efficiency and effectiveness and in particular customer orientation. Minister Gorbach has already announced that the reform of these funding systems is very much at his heart. An important instrument for stimulating entrepreneurship research is the research exemption, and Austria has one of the best tax funding systems in the OECD area. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] According to first estimates, the company remains over €250 million, which provides an additional incentive for the creation and settlement of research-intensive companies. As a woman's speaker, it is important to mention that the budget also includes funding for special funding for women in economic research and technology, which are under the project "femtech", for which over € 4.5 million is foreseen in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government – in particular Mr Gorbach – proves that it is earnestly striving to make every effort to keep Austrian research spending on growth.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4003	The next speaker is Mrs Fleckl. Preferred speaking time: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4021	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! As in all other budget chapters, financial resources have also been removed in the budget chapter of transport. Therefore, important projects on the track or on the road can hardly or not be realized in Austria. It will only be possible to implement rail investments under the General Transport Plan until 2006. Even the general transport plan, Mr. Minister, will not help the federal states to solve their transport problems because it simply does not happen or was forgotten in it – for example to my federal state, the Styria. I do not have to tell you, Minister, that the economic situation of a country needs the best possible infrastructure. Economy grows where there are sufficient transport routes, and of course I also count a modern and efficient rail infrastructure. If the general transport plan is implemented in the present form, the Styria will suffer massively as a result of the fact that important projects have been forgotten, such as the implementation of the South Railway. The so-called Pontebana axis with the Semmering Base Tunnel has enormous economic significance for the state of Styria. The Semmering base tunnel is considered indispensable by all transport experts for the southern states of Styria and Carinthia. Therefore, it cannot be accepted that the Styria in Austria and in Europe will be placed on the transport policy storage track. [[We welcome the SPÖ as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Much too often, the decision for the Semmering-Base Tunnel project has been postponed with each new transport minister or new transport minister. I remember very well the full-bodied promises made by the Federal Minister Schmid that the Semmering Base Tunnel was in his best hands. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] There is an unfinished stolling called “Waltraud. ” Don’t let “Waltraud ” go to the pointless project that only causes costs! Except for fees, we have to say “waltraud. ” [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Controller: Unfortunately, there was no nature conservation permit to obtain!]] It can't be that the Semmering-Base Tunnel project is condemned to failure because of the personal circumstances of a country chief. In front of the mountain yes, behind the mountain no – what is this transport policy in Austria? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the media it was to be read, Minister, that you are working daily on the revision of the General Transport Plan; which is basically very positive if you look at it. I now appeal to you: Get active for the southern federal states as well and finally embark on the construction of the southern railway – in the interest of the public, in the interest of the economic location of Styria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4107	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Fleckl, Mr Eder and colleagues is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. 4 minutes speaking time. - You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4128	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Johann Wolfgang Goethe is known to have been the last universal genius. He is said to have had a comprehensive knowledge. – If you listen to so many speakers in their speeches, you can say that there are some universal geniuses inside here too. One of these is Dr. Grünewald, who knows the right and the best on every subject. [[Deconstratetive appeal to the Greens]] Doctor, I'll take this from you in terms of medicine, even if here and here we can correct the words of our Dr. Rasinger is necessary, but that you are everywhere the best-informed and best-known, we can, I believe, generally doubt that. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: superfluous!]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I just quoted!]] Otherwise, as Parliament, we would have to apply for the Nobel Prize for you – in which sector, you can choose it. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the liberals as well as the detonative accompaniment of the Abg. Brosz.]] Mr. Federal Minister! It is also in the infrastructure with the Duumvirat Minister Gorbach and State Secretary Kukacka, who is competent, with all-mannerly thoroughness and oberösterreich's practical orientation in the Ministry of Infrastructure, finally again – I have to say – a continuity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We've heard about the technology offensive today. To this end, I should like to say that not only does the federal government count with its technology offensive, but also the countries and, to a certain extent, the municipalities, other public institutions. That is, one must see this as an overall offensive and must not reduce it to the federal budget alone. When I imagine what is going on in Upper Austria alone at technology offensive – in every district city a technology center where high-tech jobs are created – you have to say that this is an essential contribution to achieving the goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] It is particularly pleasing, however, that there is clarity about solving traffic problems. Mr Gorbach has offered his cooperation. It wasn't always like that. I remember: There has once been a “Master Plan” by Minister One, who has only taken the track into account and left everything else out of attention. We have also debated this. Today there is a common ground, and I think this view is correct: Rail, road, air and water! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why I welcome the initiative of our State Secretary Helmut Kukacka, who has taken over the task of extending the Danube waterway accordingly and of using infrastructure for transport. There's something going on at the ÖBB too – that's what we see. Finally, the Directorate-General has escaped from the trade union's grip, and the ÖBB will be renewed. When I see what's happening, I can only express my compliment to the staff, the creatives, the train companions. The situation has become considerably better, everyone strives, there is something like market and customer-friendliness, that is noticeable. If the ÖBB continues to work in this way, the service offer will also become attractive, and if the infrastructure fits, the changeover from the road to the train will be done automatically. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Infrastructure, of course, also includes foreign investment in technology. We have discussed the purchase of Eurofighters, and you know we expect counter-businesses of €4 billion to bring infrastructure, technology, research and development to Austria. I can use a four-liner – it is a six-liner, Mrs Colleague! – on access to the Eurofighter: [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: Finally! Finally!]] A human being sits alone in the south at the Tuscany wine and thinks that Chianti supports how it effectively protects the airspace. [[Abg. Brosz: That must be the big truck!]] He has it, and his eyes flash: with champagne corks and asparagus laces.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4251	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4269	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In my contribution, I will deal with the necessary internet broadband measures. In this respect, it will be necessary to: Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Austria is fifth in Europe with a broadband penetration of about 13 percent and thus above the European average of 9 percent, leading broadband nations such as Belgium and the Netherlands have already reached 18 or 22 percent due to their committed policies in this area. After a comparatively early market launch of broadband, Austria has fallen particularly in the past year in the queue. In order for Austria to regain a leading position among the information societies of Europe, targeted national efforts in broadband access technologies must be made. On the one hand, we need to be able to push access technologies to a top position, on the other hand, on the other hand, demand-side, for example, with useful e-commerce solutions and e-government products, we also need to generate a demand range that produces a mutually motivating strength spiral with the technology supply. In this context, the government has pledged fiscal measures, but their reliability has already been raised by experts in advance. In addition, these tax measures are not appropriate to have sufficient effect in the previously sub- and unsupplyed rural areas. The 2004 tax reform aims to reduce the cost of broadband connections and basic fees as a special issue. However, this measure is limited until the end of 2004. However, the Federal Government’s broadband support does not mean anything but: If you earn more, you also get cheaper to this connection. The poorer is supposed to see how he gets there. – Not quite an unknown policy. This procedure, however, excludes all those who would need it especially urgently, namely students, students and all those who deserve little. That is why we say that the promotion has to be done exactly the opposite; it has to be reduced with rising income. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We criticize the government's intentions because it excludes all those for whom the path of decommissioning is not open, because there are no quantitative targets and no time horizons regarding the expansion of broadband access in rural areas, because it is not clear what will happen after 2004, and because there is neither a concept nor a strategy in a field so central to competitiveness. We call for direct support, then comprehensive provision of sufficient capacity, cost-effective access in the transition period, for example through public institutions, comprehensive facilities of schools and training for all population groups, and increased use of existing and alternative funding lines in order to strengthen rural areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! After all, the E-Europe Action Plan aims to achieve global supply across Europe by 2005. That is why I would like to ask you, Minister of State: Business everything, you will become active and do something more than what you have planned so far!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4339	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann. Speaking time: 5 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4360	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The colleague from Styria referred earlier to the Semmering base tunnel. This is, of course, a project that is a very good and important for the Styria, so this is very supportive, but it simply has to be accepted and recognised that we are living in a state in which certain legal proceedings apply. Although it is not right for one or the other, we must wait until Mr Pröll sees that he has not done this right and we very much want this Semmering base tunnel. It must be waited! I think the SPÖ must also wait for the end of these legal proceedings – we live in a rule of law – to see who will get justice then. Overall, this project is of course desirable. Second area: To achieve 2.5 percent of GDP by 2006 is an objective that the government has set itself, and it is good if targets are set. If you always say that's not true, the data is wrong, then I must remind you that this is a double budget for the years 2003 and 2004, which provides an increase of €10 million per year for research and development. That's an increase of 4 percent. It is planned to increase the special funding, which has already been available from 2001 to 2003, from € 508 million to € 600 million and to be paid out for the years 2004 to 2006. – This is a second special medium tranche that is planned. I think this is a very remarkable measure to move forward and continue in the field of research and development. The clear data and facts relating to the Fund – FFF and FWF – are: Both have been increased by €28.8 million in each budget. That's numbers, facts and facts that you can't wipe from the table. In the same way, it can be seen that the government policy of recent years has achieved a great deal for general economic research and development in Austria. The total economic expenditure for research and development in 2002 was estimated at €4.2 million – billion, apologies; thank you, Mr. Collegue, for €4 billion – €217 million, which means an increase of 4.8 percent compared to 2001. [[Abg. Broukal: billions!]] This means that there has been a certain catch-up process in this area. The R & D rate has grown much faster than in previous years and than in the OECD and EU average. We have now overtaken countries such as Italy, Canada, Hungary or Australia, and that because of the activities that have been set up. This does not mean that we are now resting on the person we reach, but that we need to continue to invest. We belong to the group of catching-up countries, together with other countries such as Belgium, the Netherlands, Norway and Denmark, and we have come closer to the OECD section. Should it be called again – since Mr Broukal will be careful and will certainly also talk about research –: That's not enough, we'll never achieve all of this, then please also answer the question – I know you're going to tell me again, you weren't in this house before –: Why has it been missed for so long to invest in time so that we can reach the OECD cut? [[Abg. Broukal points towards ÖVP.]] - You're showing up there? I think these colleagues were not significantly responsible, but exactly your colleagues. These were responsible, and not the colleagues from the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That's child-bearing, what you're doing. Their party proposed to the Minister of Finance who could have taken effective action. He didn't put it. Only the government of the last legislative period has begun the pick-up process in order to bring back to the right fate what you have failed for decades so that we can join the OECD section in the field of research and development also in Austria. I would also like to say that we will certainly be able to use funds from the National Bank to set up a foundation to invest even more money. You will see, in 2006 the figures and data will be even better. We will achieve this ambitious target of 2.5 percent of GDP by 2006. In any case, it is important to set this objective and make investments in it. I would like to remind you once again – give me an answer! –: Why has the former government team that your group has heard missed? You could have put those actions at the time – do it together with us today!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4415	The next speaker is Mr Steier. Speech time: 4 minutes; they will be adjusted as desired. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4434	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks only a small selection of announcements or headlines of the Federal Government: First: Quality offensive in public transport. Secondly, The efficiency of road and rail transport is a key area for strengthening international competitiveness. However, the figures in the double budget 2003/2004 speak a completely different language. Reductions in the area of public passenger and regional transport clearly indicate a withdrawal of the federal government from its responsibility for public transport. In my opinion, this is a devastating signal. Ladies and gentlemen! The public Transport guarantees the mobility of a large part of our population and is an important alternative to individual transport. Public transport is particularly important for rural areas. Our commuters are fully dependent on it. A further thinning of the supply of transport will, together with numerous other measures that this government has set up in recent years, lead to a massive decline in rural areas. In this context, I can only remind you of the closure of post offices, gender posts and others. Public transport is important providers to the agglomerations. Reduced funding for public transport means restrictions on quality, security of supply and security of supply. Less and worse offer public transport means moving to the passenger car. As a result, even more congestion, noise and pressures from exhaust gases. Ladies and gentlemen! A withdrawal of the federal government from its responsibility for transport infrastructure leads us directly to the transport policy dead end. Countries and municipalities are forced to absorb the cuts, as far as they are concerned, but at the same time receive less and less revenue from income. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The wrong course means a reduction in the budget for the transport sector, particularly with regard to the enlargement of the EU. Without the expansion of the rails, without functioning cross-border regional transport networks and without a corresponding common transport organisation, the traffic collapses threaten the east of Austria. The second area I would like to touch on – my previous speaker has already responded – is broadband internet support. As far as new technologies are concerned, people in agglomerations are currently preferred. It is therefore urgently necessary to improve infrastructure in general in order to eliminate the digital divide – in the interests of the citizens and the economic location of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The recently decided broadband Internet support has already been criticised as insufficient in advance. It leads to an Internet two-class society. Ladies and gentlemen! In our view, this point-by-point individual measure will not help to ensure a comprehensive broadband full supply and public Internet access via local wireless data networks. In future, not only will the existence of an internet connection be crucial to the participation of the population in our information society. It is therefore to be hoped that broadband Internet promotion will soon follow up further activities so that Austria's digital opportunities will not be playful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4507	I call Mr Haubner. Speaking time: also 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4525	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Development, promotion of development, courage to development – all these are parameters for a modern society that is constantly developing through research and resulting innovations. But they are not self-evident. Framework conditions, promotions, sustainable and forward-looking improvements in the legislation are needed to assist entrepreneurs, promote research and development, and release resources. Innovation is more important today, as competitive pressure is increasing in all sectors than ever. Therefore, consistent innovation management is usually a guarantee for entrepreneurial success. Research and innovation secure growth and jobs and are key to the strong position of Austria's economic location. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] They form the basis for the prosperity of our nation, and this base is massively supported by our federal government. Our country has innovative potentials of the special class. In a direct comparison – and has already been pointed out today – the Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises point to 60 percent. ==References====External links== We are clearly above the EU section. That is, especially our small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the engine of the Austrian economy, demonstrate courage for the future, courage for research and courage for further development and innovation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This courage must also be promoted, financial resources must be used and awareness created in the general population. Over 30 000 people today work in Austria in the fields of research and development, supported by support programmes and state aid. The field of research is far, and yet small Austria offers top international achievements in many areas. Our Austria thinks, has courage, is creative, innovative and extremely diligent. The main objective of the Austrian research, technology and innovation policy is to strengthen the competitiveness of the Austrian economy through increased R&D performance and to guarantee social security through the creation of long-term, highly qualified jobs. It is important here – and this is probably out of question – to ensure multi-annual planning security for companies. This is done through our medium-term budgetary policy. The substantial increase in R & D expenditure is necessary both by the public and by the entrepreneurs themselves. The aim of the government programme is to create the right impetus and incentives even in difficult times of saving, and shows that the commitment to increase the research rate is taken seriously and appropriate opportunities are implemented in the 2003 and 2004 budgets. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] By the year 2006, the F&E quota – which has already been pointed out several times today – is expected to amount to 2.5 percent. Therefore, special resources are also made available sufficiently for the purpose of research. In view of the fact that Europe is to become the leading economic area by the year 2010, my home country Salzburg has also done exemplary work: In the years 2003 and 2004, funding for application-oriented research in Salzburg will be provided considerably more than before. This increase is more than 60 percent, and if you calculate all the pots together, this year you will spend exemplary totals of over €5 million. With the strengthening of research and development, Austria is on the right path with its Federal Minister and its State Secretary and the federal states!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4592	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4610	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, today we are talking about framework conditions and the major challenges, and I think my colleague Eder has also tried to remove consensus policy in the area of transport policy. This is particularly important to me, especially in the eastern region, because we are likely to see a 70 percent increase in traffic in the East region in the next few years alone due to the increase in truck traffic through the East opening. However, I believe that there should be no contrast between road and rail – some of my previous speakers and the Minister also stressed this. Mr Miedl made a comparison today, in which he – perhaps not that way – compared Austria with Ireland. But Ireland is an island – and Austria, and especially Austria, is a large, very strong crossing! That means we have challenges to face. That is why I do not fully understand – with regard to all consensus issues and consensus policy – that in the budget chapter 65, “Transport, Innovation and Technology”, we have almost 22 percent less in the approach for 2003; we already know that it should be more next year. There was a debate last week about the report of the magazine “FORMAT” of 13. June. In this, four banks of the Federal Government give tips on how to re-establish the Austrian economic location. Now I leave away the statements of Ferdinand Lacina and also those of the head of the RZB, Konrad, and I just want to quote Treichl here, who says: "We are about to miss a lot," Minister. “You need a Bohemian motorway, a Slovakian motorway...” And Treichl goes on to say: One must now be optimistic and, above all, “go over from saving... to investing”. This is, of course, a remarkable statement by the former financial officer of the EIA, and I believe that there should be nothing between speeches and actions. Mr Federal Minister, what is important to me: In the Eastern region in particular, an appropriate list of priorities covering both road and rail is needed with regard to the enlargement of the EU. I would like to know from you – if possible, still today – what expansion measures you are pursuing in the Eastern Region. In addition, I am particularly interested when the PPP models are finally applied because, of course, if on one side the Federal Government saves and does not invest, it is particularly important that on the other hand Private, particularly in the transport sector, can make more investments in the Eastern region than before. I believe that it is also very important – and some of my colleagues have already done this – to bring some speed into the development of road pricing so that road pricing becomes reality, so that we can finance important projects and, above all, co-solidate the debts of ASFINAG that have reached a significant level in the future. Summa summarum can be said: We invest in the eastern region! I do not want to make any contrast with Tyrol, but with regard to the tangents and the southern motorway, the situation – we experience it daily in the traffic jam – is not satisfactory. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] – This should not lead to a discussion about Tyrol; there are, of course, the same difficulties as with us. – We should definitely invest, and above all we should invest quickly in the near future! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4667	Mr Kukacka, you are not on my list of speakers. But if you want to speak, you have the right to do so at any time. [[An employee of the Parliamentary Directorate in the direction of President Dr. Fischer:]] He's on the list of speakers! It's a technical problem!– A technical problem, okay.Please, Mr State Secretary, I would like to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4697	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this federal government has taken a big step forward in all transport policy – not only this federal government, but also its predecessor government. We should remember that it was this coalition, which for the first time succeeded in bringing all the important transport skills together in a department, there in full pooling all these competences and thus initiating a coordinated transport policy. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] The consequence of this alliance was the general transport plan, which was presented by this coalition during the last legislative period and which, after more than ten years of discussion on overall transport plans, general transport plans and master plans, finally brought to a comprehensive and transparent system of transport expansions – rail, road, waterways – to give an example of how transport policy should be done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we want to continue, and I thank the opposition for expressing her willingness to go along with this. The Federal Minister has already acknowledged this. We are very happy to accept this offer, because we all know together that there are major problems in dealing with transport and that solutions need to be taken here, which may negatively affect some of those concerned. That is why we need a great common interest in these projects, whether it be the extension of the transport routes or the reform of the Austrian Federal Railways. Our willingness to cooperate and cooperate is certainly here, ladies and gentlemen. However, I would also point out, Mr Eder, that we are now taking a very big step forward with the new truck toll in the measures you have been calling for for for a long time, namely cost-truth, increased costs especially in road transport. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: A little too small!]] But I think we must stay here on the ground of reality. We demand an average of 22 cents per kilometer. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very high value in European comparison, and we also largely benefit from the European Road Costs Directive. More is no longer in this area, especially since we have to keep in mind that we have to measure ourselves in terms of location with other countries. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's not true!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we should accept that we have done what is possible in this area and that everything else would endanger the economic location of Austria and, above all, Mrs Colleague, would meet consumers. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's not true! That's just wrong!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No!]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Of course!]] You know as well as I do that most of these costs will be passed on to consumers, which will also lead to an increase in the rate of inflation, so that all citizens will have to take part. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: 2 percent share transport costs! 2 percent share transport costs at the product price!]] That is why, I believe, we should proceed in a moderate manner here, but we should use our possibilities to a large extent. And that is exactly what has been done on this question. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger:... You mathematics!]] Mrs Lichtenberger, I give you the right to say that we have to pay attention to a really balanced relationship between road, rail and waterway. I say: This has been done really well over the past five years! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's not true!]] We have invested twice as much in the rails as we have in the development of road transport. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: These are all old projects!]] You can understand this in all statistics! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: These are all old...projects!]] The general traffic plan provides that we will use €15 billion for the road, but for the rail we will use €30 billion! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But stupidly they are not financed!]] So you see: The relations are right. But what has not voted in many areas was the right, efficient use of resources in these areas! [[Abg. Wattaul: That's it!]] We have already invested enormously in the rails, but there has not been a sufficient network connection. It has not had a positive impact on the rail business either in terms of the positive or in other customer benefits for the users of the railway! – That was the problem, ladies and gentlemen, and we will have to solve this problem. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] There will also be no thinning in public transport, as it has been sounded today. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But of course!]] On the contrary: We are working on concepts to ensure that the quality offensive in public transport is implemented accordingly, ladies and gentlemen. [[New call for tender Dr. Lichtenberger]] Because one thing is clear: In this area too, better organisation and better use of resources are required. And that's why we're going to make a very intense effort. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wattaul.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: And do not give warm air of itself!]] Because today it has also been said that Vienna is disadvantaged by the federal government in public transport, it is objectively necessary to maintain that this is not right. Of course, more resources are spent on public transport in eastern Austria than on other regions of Austria. [[Abg. Wattaul: There are also more people!]] Just remember that 50 percent of the U-Bahn expansion in Vienna is financed by the federal government! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: What does the tram financing law do?]] No other capital, no other region gets adequately comparable resources! It is therefore unfair when it is said that the Federation of Vienna is disadvantaged on these issues, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Why is there no tram financing law? Then we would have solved the problem!]] I can tell you that, but we will discuss it on another occasion. I am very much in favour of doing this, so that not only Vienna has the opportunity to receive additional funds but also the other capitals of the country have the opportunity to claim public funds for their tram financing accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Super!]] [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Controller: Vienna has a tramway!]] In this coalition, we will at least deal intensively with this question. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to come to a point that is particularly entrusted to me, namely the structural reform of the Austrian Federal Railways. You know that this is certainly a difficult project for this federal government, and I am also entitled to ask the opposition to participate in it accordingly and to support us accordingly. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] What we want to achieve, ladies and gentlemen, is simply that competition is also promoted in the area of rail transport, that we also get more close to customers in rail transport, so that better services are offered to the public and to the economy. [[Abg. Wattaul: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger) You must learn to think in a European dimension!]] That is why this reform is not a self-esteem for us, it has nothing to do with party politics and ideology, but this reform is simple and simply business-friendly and nationally necessary, ladies and gentlemen. Nor do we want to destroy this company, as is always claimed here, but simply create modern, efficient corporate structures, as they have long been present everywhere in other industrial companies or service companies of similar size, in Austria and in Europe. And the railway will not be able to escape these future issues either, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No! ... for blacks... a job...!]] They all know that there is a massive need for public funding for the rail system. I don't want to criticize this at all, I only notice it once. The rail system requires €4.4 billion per year from public funds. You have to imagine this sum! [[Abg. Murauer: A madness! Probably!]] This is three times as much as we spend in Austria for the defence of the country, but also three times as much as we spend for the Austrian universities, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: If we... calculate pensions... against the street, what happens then?]] In view of these amounts, it may be asked whether the high cost of this system is also in a reasonable relationship for the benefit of citizens and customers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Absolutely right!]] I do not want to talk about the high social costs in this company, that will be a separate issue! I also do not blame any railway operator of one of these so-called privileges, because the system has created these possibilities – the system! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The boys don't have that anymore!]] The fact that the individual workers also benefit from these benefits, I understand, but in relation to all other workers, this means, that we must say, great injustices. We must therefore restore greater justice, equality and solidarity in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The railway situation is thus characterised by a high need for public subsidies and a high level of indebtedness, but the railway is also characterised by a system that does not help to improve the efficiency of this system. [[Calls and calls between Members of Parliament, Wattaul and Gradwelt]] When we remember that § 2 of the Federal Railway Act provides that the deficits arising in the infrastructure sector will automatically be reimbursed by the state, from the budget, then we know that this system of course leads to the fact that the state's pocket is really deep. So there must also be more transparency, more control, more cost limitation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, it is about improving the performance and productivity indicators of the ÖBB. We all know that, in this respect, there are shortages of the ÖBB in international comparison. A comparison of the Bundesbahn e.g. with the Swiss railway or with the Deutsche Bahn results that these trains have a productivity of a third higher than the Austrian Bundesbahnen. From all these examples, you can see that there is a great need for reform, that what we are planning here does not have a party-political or social-political dimension, but that it is only about leading an Austrian company into a good economic future. [[Abg. Gradwelt: No! Not at all!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[The Murauer and Wattaul Members: That's it!]] Finally, I should like to say a word about Austrian shipping policy. Ladies and gentlemen: This Federal Government intends to use our shipping routes, especially the Danube, more specifically for freight transport. They all know that there will be a high increase in traffic. We need the extension of the Danube waterway to make it more efficient so that it becomes shipable all year round and can therefore take on a high share – or better: a higher share – of freight transport. There are high capacities there, compared to other modes of transport, the shipping still offers large transport capacities: a thruster with 3 700 tons of cargo corresponds to 93 wagons to 40 tons! Ladies and gentlemen! So you see what opportunities exist! It is therefore necessary to eliminate bottlenecks in the Danube. It is also about creating water depths to the east of Vienna, which make the Danube shipable all year round; but it is also, and above all, about developing the Austrian ports into intermodal logistics centres, more logistically linking inland navigation, rail transport and waterways, building house-to-house services in international, intermodal traffic, and allowing industrial sites to develop in a stronger context with the Danube, which means that they have the opportunity to move their goods directly to the Danube.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5181	Mr State Secretary! I have to draw your attention, I think, to the fact that your speaking time has been exceeded by 4 minutes up to now, that will be deducted from your club. Of course you have the right to speak for up to 20 minutes!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5208	I am sorry, I have always looked at the light, the red light has never lighted up, Mr President. [[Abg. Wattaul: Oh yes! Oh, yes! I have to help him, that's not true!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – But it is not a problem, I am already at the end of my remarks. But I've never seen the red light, I've been watching... – Red sometimes. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: You don't like to see red!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Except at the Bundesbahn!]] [[Abg. Marizzi: Even at a crossroads?]] But I do not see red quickly, I would like to say that, even if the opposition calls in between! Ladies and gentlemen! You see, we have great tasks ahead of us! I am convinced that transport policy in particular is in good hands with the Federal Minister and with me and that we will make a big step forward in the interests of Austria's economic location.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5297	Thank you, Mr State Secretary. The Parliamentary Directorate will manage the term of office accordingly. The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. The clock is set to 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5321	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Infrastructure policy is a policy area that is involved in many other policies. This has a strong link, for example, with local, economic, health, environmental and labour market policies, particularly with regard to the extent of the investments required. Powerful and as safe as possible transport routes are an important prerequisite for a functioning transport system. As we know, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a general transport plan for two years. This is, as well as an objective, a job assignment for this Federal Government, for you, Mr. Federal Minister, for you, Mr. State Secretary – a challenge, especially in the light of the enlargement of the European Union and the associated increase in freight transport. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to point out in this regard that, with the increase in freight traffic, we can see that inferior products or goods are increasingly being transported over larger routes, even though they could also be taken from the region. Now I know that not as the only one you are asked to work out a solution to this, but the interaction of several is required. However, as a result of this increase in the transport of goods with inferior products, there is, of course, a corresponding burden, so attention should be paid to how to deal with it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I expressly welcome the fact that Mr Kurt Eder, who has called for rapid implementation of the necessary measures, as well as Peter Marizzi, who spoke of consensus policy, has announced her willingness to participate constructively in these important and certainly difficult tasks. I have heard very well from some of my colleagues who spoke before me that track and road are being played out a little bit against each other. In my opinion, it is simply a need to set priorities; and it is not good – and I do not think it is acceptable – to play such a game: here, the track – in which nothing is invested as it is not, by the way – here road – where appropriate investments are made! It is true that the funds for road construction with around one billion € are as high as never before. And the general transport plan – the Secretary of State has just mentioned it – also provides for twice as high investments in rail as in the street. Investment in road pricing with an average rate of 22 cents, which should cover a total of €600 million, will be necessary to be able to implement the necessary infrastructure projects. However, it should be stressed that the car tax is reduced and the heavy-duty tax abolished. Very much to be welcomed is the ecologisation from 2005 on “low-pollutant trucks”! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also make a comment on the ÖBB. I wish myself a modern business, and it is my opinion After reform measures and structural changes, it is necessary to ensure the performance, attractiveness and competitiveness of this company. Whoever speaks of devastation does nothing good to the company, such a one is certainly not the intention of this federal government! Rather, it is about preparing for a time of competition. And – let me say this – I consider competition to be extremely desirable, because only by means of competition are incentives to necessary changes to ensure the future of the company. This will make it necessary to liberalise rail transport and freight transport. Mr Minister, I would also like to thank you for your commitment to the importance of public transport. As a Member of a government group, allow me to express a wish to you, both of you, Minister of State and Secretary of State, to pay your attention to the development of a technology that I believe will be an essential part of the infrastructure offered by a state, a country in the future. Austria is a leader in this technology field. I mean the DGPS, so nothing but the currently in use Global Positioning System with increased accuracy. This system offers a wide range of applications which the State, the Republic, should provide as an offer, for example a security system at ÖBB or, as you, Mr State Secretary, have addressed shipping, a security system for shipping. We know the pressure of shipping companies to get their deliveries from A to B in time, I only mention the problem of fog and collisions and the like. There could be decisive improvements. This system would also allow for precise and simple collection of places with large numbers of accidents. It also offers – as you have referred to, Mr State Secretary, the shipping roads and the need to make the Danube shipable – the possibility of free dredging the waterways without great measuring effort. The applications of the DGPS go up to snow clearing in particularly extreme locations, for example at the Großglockner, where the protection effort can be minimized by such systems. I also believe that the DGPS will eventually be caught up in the system of empowerment in Europe. Mr State Secretary, Minister of State, I know in good hands the research and infrastructure sector as well as the technology sector. Both of them, I believe, are extremely open to innovation and have the greatest possible capacity for implementation. We will actively support you!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5400	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5418	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you very much, at the outset, for the cooperation of your ministry, especially with regard to the positive processing of the Tschirgant Tunnel and the second tube of the Roppener Tunnel. I was very surprised that a reaction had already taken place the next day, and I can say that with the commitment to build these two projects from 2007 to 2012, in this region is definitely provided for road safety and transport relief in the foreseeable future. [[We welcome the SPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Free Trade Unions.]] However, Mr Federal Minister, your information on the urgently necessary double-track expansion between Ötztal and Landeck is still pending. If you keep talking about moving traffic from the road to the rail, you should also ensure an appropriate offer on the rail. [[Abg. Wattaul: Then you have to talk to the Italians and Germans!]] This dual-track expansion is still outstanding and urgently necessary. I am of your opinion, Federal Minister, if you say that you should stop playing the road against the rails. But you also have to give the track a chance and force it. Making the track messy doesn't matter at all! That would be the wrong way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the contrary: One has to force the train, especially motivate the employees and offer the passengers appropriate comfort and performance. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Controller.]] Federal Minister! However, the positive development mentioned in my region is the disappointment that, with regard to our transit agreement or the ecopoints regulation, nothing goes on. [[Abg. Wattaul: You have to know that he ends in 2003!]] Here I see black in the truest sense of the word. You said earlier, Federal Minister, that Austria has a right to a succession. You also said that the discussion after the Tyrolean measures had become a little more serious – which I very much hope! However, the fact is that all EU bodies continue to demand the full release of the truck transit by Austria, without at the same time clarifying how the urgently necessary reduction of pollution and noise pollution can be achieved in the future in a sustainable and sustainable manner. [[Abg. Wattaul: With Euro-4!]] The chronology in the EU tells us that they do not want our transit agreement. In February 2003, the EU Parliament in Strasbourg voted against an extension of the failed ecopoint system. [[Abg. Wattaul: Read the Constitution of the EU! Free movement of goods!]] In April 2003, ladies and gentlemen, Romano Prodi announced that he no longer hopes for a timely special arrangement for the Austrian transit problem. The same also confirmed in a “profile” interview that Austria had no chance of extending the transit agreement. Only a few days ago, there was another setback: The EU Transport Committee held its first meeting on 12 February. A further extension of the transit system was rejected in June 2003 and a major abolition of the ecopoints from 2004. This transit contract is now due to expire at the end of 2003. With July, Italy will take over the EU Presidency, i.e. the country in which the Frächterlobby has enormous influence. [[Abg. Wattaul: Who made the contract?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Federal Minister, we will have a lot to do here. These are bad conditions for Austria, especially considering that the EU Council President is close to the Fachter Lobby and that the accession of ten Member States will also take place on the so-called free journey. Tyrol has resorted to self-help – the EU Court of Justice was pleased to sanction the blockades as legitimate and thus decided against the Frächterlobby. [[Abg. Wattaul: This is the biggest Gaudi!]] Hopefully, the Tyrolean measures will continue to lead to a rethinking, both here in Austria and in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5555	Next speaker is Mrs Hakl. The same voluntary limit on speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5573	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you because I firmly believe that transit problems in particular have gone a lot further, Minister of State. On the one hand, since this federal government, the expansion of the Unterinntaltrasse, which has repeatedly been controversial and repeatedly opposed – so to speak, a survival project for us Tyrolean – has been disputed. But there is also enormous progress in the future construction of the Brenner Base Tunnel, which is for us the second vein of life, Mr Federal Minister. I would also like to thank you for the last discussions you have held in this context. But it is also true that it would be too little to drill a hole just there and there. I have to put a few things right, including the attitude of the European Union, the European Parliament towards this so sensitive issue in the inner Alpine region. I have made the effort and have listened to the European Parliament's then transport debate – via the Internet you can hear it live in all languages – and see here: MEPs from all countries, including Italy, felt that a form of ecopoints or at least a derogation for such sensitive areas as the Alpine region in Tyrol could be imagined. The Members had problems with the fact that areas in Austria, as there are also similar ones in rest Europe, in which neither the traffic burden nor the number of people affected is as incredible as in Tyrol, are also covered by the ecopoints regime. I think – you may forgive me – that this position is understandable with a sense of justice, which must apply not only to its own people but also to the other Europeans. At the same time, however, this is a position on which we can build, and it means that we have to get into the issue of sensitive corridors, justify them and define them objectively. This is our housework now, Minister of State, and I very much ask you to do it. As regards Tyrol in particular, we must bear in mind that sensitive corridors cannot have national borders. This also means that, in connection with the transit of trucks through Tyrol, a sensitive corridor must include at least the Munich to Verona area, otherwise the route would be so short that the toll could never be high enough compared to Switzerland, so to speak, in order to divert and keep detour traffic away and facilitate the relocation to the rail. That is why we need higher tolls with cross-financing in sensitive corridors, which must not be limited by state borders. I would ask you to focus on this in the near future. The reform of the Austrian Federal Railways is also very important in order to enable the transfer of traffic from road to rail. There are structural mechanisms that make this difficult, but I hope that, as in every company where the Works Council, when structural changes are necessary, is working to keep the company sustainable, the trade unions in the sense of their company and in the sense of a future of the Austrian Federal Railways are involved in the structural reform measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5628	I call Mrs Walther. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5647	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear guests at the gallery! By a large majority, the population in the Czech Republic and Poland voted in favour of accession to the EU by May 2004. The northern south-south link between Warsaw and Vienna to the Adriatic would therefore really be a command of the hour, especially the connection to the Pontebana stretch. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] I assume that there is a consensus in the House on the importance of public transport. Above all, the economic benefits of the construction of the coral railway along with the Semmering base tunnel is undisputed. Apart from the employment effects of construction, there would also be a better transport connection of the West Styria, just with the connection to the Pontebana line. Minister! Will you try to bring the Pontebana line among the first 15 projects of the Trans-European Network? This would be of utmost importance for the whole Styria and especially for the Koralmbahn! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Will you be committed to amending the general transport plan in the EU in favour of Styria? Or does the “adaptation” of the General Transport Plan mean to “traffic and financial conditions”, as you explained in reply to my request in March, that a delay in the construction of the Koralmbahn would arise? This would, of course, throw the planning of the economy and also the population in the West Styria over the pile. – This response has been made very quickly, I have to praise it. How do you intend, Minister, to ensure the financing of individual projects so that they can be realized? The solution, as already explained, would be a change to the general transport plan, so this connection to the Pontebana line would really be included in the first 15 projects in the general traffic plan, but with the Koralmbahn and the Semmering Base Tunnel. This would at last mean a real opportunity for Styria, which has to face particular problems in the course of the enlargement of the EU. Finally, I would like to point out: I hope that Mr Kukacka's statements about the good economic future of the ÖBB do not mean the sale of the ÖBB and that there will be no English conditions for the Austrians. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5713	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5731	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I am of the opinion of Mr Marizzi – I am grateful for the fact that such a statement comes from the SPÖ – that there must be no difference between East and West, but that the problems must be dealt with throughout Austria; the problems of transport also concern all over Austria. I also have to say a few words about Mr Reheis' statements: In particular, Tyrol has been particularly concerned with freedom of movement among ministers. [[Abg. Reheis: Be particularly disadvantaged!]] It is also – I say – great projects have not only been put into perspective, but also implemented, whether it be the sub-inntal trass, whether it be the Brenner base tunnel, or the Tschirgant tunnel, which particularly concerns you. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Reheis: That's only partly true!]] Don't always be so hypocritical and don't charge the transit matter to the freedom-free transport ministers, because the blame lies in the past – and the past can't be reversed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] If the Social Democrats had not made these treaties, we would not have this problem today. You have to take note of this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With the establishment of the general transport plan, Austria is sure to implement targeted investments in rail and road transport. This infrastructure programme for road, rail and Danube transport will meet the requirements of the future. The entire package comprises €17 billion, which is more than in the past and will ensure that in the future the problems of transport are solved. In the consensus between the Minister of Transport, the countries, the ÖBB and the infrastructure companies, urgent development projects are being implemented. Investments for the road that will be implemented within the next ten years will include a package of €4.7 billion, for which projects starting after 2012 will be available at 1.3 billion. Investment in the rail – this is something where a priority is set – will be almost three times as high, namely €12.4 billion. This package includes, among other things, the Danube Corridor, the first impulses for the Southern Corridor, investments made in local transport, railway stations and tunnel safety, which was also neglected by the Social Democrats. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Not at all!]] [[Abg. Reheis: (in the direction of the speaker) What are these settings! That's just precepts, do you need that? That's just a distraction from your own weaknesses, Klaus! You don't need that! That's not true! That's just not true!]] – We have to fix that too. It is. The failure of the Social Democrats is an old burden. I have never noticed – I always wonder – that you are ready to find a consensus on this issue, but you always bring this criticism, about transit and everything else. For us Tyroleans, the implementation of the Brenner Base Tunnel, which is included in the planning, is an important factor to offset the growth in traffic that we have to expect through the Easter expansion. Westbahn, Linz–Wels, Gloggnitz–Mürzzuschlag, City-S-Bahn Linz, Tauernbahn im Gasteinertal, these are some of the projects I would like to mention to you, ladies and gentlemen, where the focal points of our freedom Minister Hubert Gorbach are. It is he who ensures the consistent implementation of all these important projects. It is clear to me that there has been too little happening in the past in the area of rail. This was changed by the government participation of FPÖ. The Danube as a waterway was also not forgotten as an important mode of transport. Over the next ten years, € 79.9 million will be invested in Danube development. The people in Austria expect the tasks for the future to be addressed even today. And we'll do this, too. For research and development, €600 million is planned for 2004-2006, an increase of 24 percent compared to 1999. These investments in the future are positive but will not be enough. The aim must be to increase the research rate to 2.5 percent of GDP. With your help, Minister, the IG air has been innovationized, efficiency has been increased, the procedure has been accelerated; the countries have to implement it. Transport problems can only be solved in the European consensus. But I know that the name Hubert Gorbach is the guarantee that he will continue to fight and, with his persistence, will do the necessary persuasion to achieve improvements in the future. The concept of eco-sensitive zones, as we decided last year with the Alpine Convention, and an ecological development of the driving power-dependent truck toll are important steps to protect our habitat. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Read Slower!]] – It is better to read facts than to speak incessantly! You have to take note of that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The goal and challenge is to bring a large part of the transport from road to rail in the future. I would also ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support our Minister for Transport on his difficult path. Our support is certainly yours, Minister, because we know: The traffic and the related tasks are well removed from you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5862	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5881	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Wittauer, there is a slogan in this Federal Government, which reads: Future needs responsibility! – In the beginning the pult has been a bit high, and you haven’t seen the acting persons, now it’s lower, but the saying is still the same. Mr Wittauer, if you believe that it is the taking over of responsibility, always when you are used for responsibility, to say: Oh, God, these were the ones before us, that happened 15 years ago! , or: [[Abg. Wittauer: We took responsibility!]] That was already 35 years ago, then the mistakes happened!, then you are in error, because this coalition and the former federal government have consumed three ministers in three years in this resort and has gone on nothing, nothing at all! [[Abg. Wittauer: We do it anyway!]] – This is the problem, Mr Wittauer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] And when I speak of the perception of responsibility, I come to you, Secretary of State Kukacka: They are responsible for the Austrian Federal Railways in this government. [[Abg. Wittauer: The Minister is responsible!]] Your group colleagues Cordula Frieser, Ridi Steiblund others have always said in recent days that the opposition would speak badly of this republic. But I have never experienced that one for a major transport company, for the largest transport company in Austria, has spoken his business as badly as you did in your statements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Kukacka, it would be time to assume your responsibility, and your responsibility as the one who has to be there for the company, to do exactly the opposite of what you are doing, namely to motivate and not to depress the staff. Mr Kukacka, it was very honest that you said you did not see the red light. You may not see this here in Parliament, but otherwise the party political glasses are quite right: All reds out, blacks in, and then the world is all right again! This is not a transport policy, however, Mr State Secretary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the liberals: Indirectly already!]] But in fact I wanted to talk about innovation and technology; the last few seconds of my speaking time, I will also devote myself to this issue. In her speech, Mrs Frieser thanked the private company for carrying out such high investment in research and development. I would like to express my thanks, but not fully, for investing in research and development for these companies is a matter of their own. It is good if there are companies that can do this, because it secures their place of business, their turnovers and their revenues. But, Federal Minister, as Austria and you as representatives of the government, we must not build airlocks and only talk about the availability of 600 million additional resources for research and development in 2004 from the Federal budget, because we all know, on the basis of the latest economic results, that the 2004 budget, which you will decide today, will not last. Therefore, these 600 million will not be available, and unlike other EU countries that have in the meantime decided to reach 3 percent of GDP in the field of research and development by 2010, Austria will not reach 2.5 percent. For three years we have been starting at 1.8, 1.9 percent of GDP. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is an increase compared to the past! What did you do?]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Acquired by the Guild Rudi!]] It will not be better, Mr Wittauer, and that is the problem. The problem is that the fourth year is a black and blue Federal Government at work, that nothing has happened except “Building air locks, looking at fools ” as an Austrian singer brought it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And with that the Republic is not served!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6020	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6053	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The issue of transport and infrastructure is an issue that concerns all of us, every citizen, the environment, the economy, politics. It is a common process in a united Europe, and here this issue plays an important role. We will not build air locks, we must create structures on which we can build with which we will have opportunities and prospects for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is about promoting mobility, impact, competition and infrastructure. It is about creating competitive conditions for the economy, but it is also about promoting environmental principles – it has already been mentioned today. We therefore need an intelligent, forward-looking transport policy in Austria. In the 2003/2004 budget, there are positive priorities, and I personally welcome the expansion of the rail, including the fact that additional funds are made available for this. But I am concerned when I consider the ÖBB debt mountain with over €10 billion that we are being inhibited here in the development, in the continuation of the expansion of the rail and in the scope. That is why I would like to thank you, Secretary of State Kukacka, for your commitment to reforming the Federal Railways and for acting here quickly. I wish you good luck and a happy hand in implementing this reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The ÖBB must become more efficient, slimmer, faster. We must meet the requirements of the future. The ÖBB budget of €4.4 billion is a basis for business. Mr State Secretary, you have found this critical today: It is not true that employees in the ÖBB are guilty of the situation, but rather it is the structure. In the past, the problem was that there was the brake threshold to start something new, which inhibited the development of the ÖBB. We therefore have a structure in the ÖBB today, which needs to be adapted. Mr Gradwelt wanted to protect the employees in this context today. I would also like to protect the employees, but it must be allowed for policy to provide better and more efficient framework conditions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The challenge of the future will be for all of us to consider how we can absorb increasing traffic growth, which concepts we can offer logistics, which cooperations between road and rail are possible. We need modern logistics. And as a railway driver, I can also say that we need to merge the systems. It is not good to operate different railway systems, logistics systems in Switzerland, Germany and Austria if the transport connections do not fit together. We need European solutions and efficient structures here. [[Abg. Wattaul: That's true, European solutions, that's right!]] I would like to end by thanking Federal Minister Gorbach and State Secretary Kukacka. We Tyroleans – we have already communicated this more often here – are naturally affected by transit. We need solidarity and solidarity in Austria in order to act with a strong voice towards Brussels. I also thank you for the sub-inntal trass. I will live over the Unterinntaltrasse in the future because it passes through our village. I hope and wish that the citizens will receive this discharge, which was foretold to us. I am convinced that we can solve some of the problems with a strong webway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6108	I call Mr Broukal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6142	Not “Modern Times”, that is, “Aha”, please! - I'd rather turn off the phone, or I'd get a rupee from the president.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6169	The clock has been running for 20 seconds!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6190	That counts with me – and not with them? Incredible! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Faster! Faster!]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get it going, shall we? Welcome! May I ask you a question at the beginning? From whom does the sentence: As far as research and development is concerned, Austria is a highly average country? From a) Caspar Einm, b) Kurt Grünewald, c) Karin Hakl or d) from the research and technology report of your own Federal Government? – It comes from your own research and technology report! All the praisers of you who come out here today and cannot tell us enough how great it is about research and development, have not read their own technology report from their own government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Austria, it says, is a highly average country. And this is an EU average that includes research nations such as Greece and Portugal, I say, without being highly negligent. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] They live in a very strange world. It is a world of goals, but it does not lead to a recognizable path. In three years we are supposed to spend 2.5% of the national income on research and development. 2 billion € more than this year would be that, year after year! So far, there is no concept of how you want to achieve this increase. Where are these two billions to come from a year? [[Abg. Wattaul: Save, save!]] You hope that the economy will spend twice as much as it does today, but where are the incentives for this? How do you want to do that? In order to achieve goals – and you don't only know that from the Federal Army – you have to operationalize them. But where are these steps you want to take? Every time you ask the Minister: How do you want to reach these 2 billion in the next few years?, he says he will make an effort. It would be €600 million more a year, and no one knows where you want this money to get. Your goals are Fata Morganas: beautiful from a distance, near a nothing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What to do? – First of all: We need 10,000 researchers more than today. This could be done by the universities and colleges if you gave them enough money for what you didn't do. The second is: We need more companies that are researching and developing, we need large, but we also need small and medium-sized enterprises that are doing more research than today. And where are your programs here? - I don't know her. We need research incentives that are easy to see, easy to use, and we need a single point of contact that advises and assigns. [[Abg. Wattaul: And that for 40 years!]] We need multi-annual security for all plans; a research project takes seven years on average today. They continue with the research budget from year to year, without any future security for companies to plan research in the light of this uncertainty. [[Abg. Wattaul: It would be good if you had done that 20 years ago!]] And we need finally – that's going to be You are now delighted – a single research minister, someone who uses all his power for research – and not, like today, four ministers, who somehow feel a bit responsible for it. [[Call the ÖVP:Broukal! Broukal!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But, and I say that very clearly, research and development are national tasks in which the opposition wants to be involved and must be involved. [[Abg. Wattaul: But that's where you have to make suggestions!]] Alones are counterproductive here; I hope you see it the same way. They all applauded again when Mrs. Bleckmann used one of her rhetorical, actually the rhetorical favorite figure. She said again: When you were still in the government, everything was much worse! – And I have now looked at that in terms of research and development. Since I am not Secretary-General in the main profession and can therefore study the documents up to the footnotes, I can inform you of the following. [[Abg. Wittauer: One thing I have to say: it's egg!]] When we talk about research and development, we hope to always talk about federal expenditure and not about what the companies produce, what the federal states produce and what the municipalities produce. We hopefully adorn ourselves with our own feathers and not with those of the others. So if we look at our own springs, that is, the research expenditure of the federal government, the following picture is given. [[The speaker presents the laptop, on whose screen a bar chart with the heading “F & E editions of the federal government” can be seen, in front of the speaker’s desk.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Call: What's going to be that now?]] This is a so-called bar chart, which shows: The red bars represent the last two research budgets that SPÖ ministers were responsible for, the blue bar represents the first budget your Mr Grasser had to answer: a reduction in public expenditure on research and development! Then came two good years. [[Call to the ÖVP: We don't see it!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[The speaker takes the laptop in his hand and keeps it in the direction of ÖVP.]] – You should all know the numbers, because you are sitting here because you judge them. So: That's Caspar One. This is Karl-Heinz Grasser. Then we'll be fine for two years. [[Abg. Neudeck: Mr Broukal, and what is the red light on the front?]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – The red light is that I am now in the end. I notice on the basis of your smile, it amuses you. I'll tell you: It is sad that you laugh at it when you prove that government expenditure, federal expenditure on research and development has increased by 3 per cent in four years, while research expenditure of enterprises has increased by 8 per cent and research expenditure of the federal states – you are all lucky anyway – has increased by 30 per cent. Vienna has an excellent share in this. - I wish I could eat.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6415	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Controller. The clock is set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6434	I suggest that we do not eat well, but continue to discuss. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] First of all, I wanted to say a word to Mrs Lichtenberger, but unfortunately she is not here – obviously she is not interested in what the others have to say about the traffic. I guess she's actually a very smart woman, but I'm always wondering that she's doing total refusal of reality. [[Abg. Wattaul: We don't want to exaggerate it!]] In addition, simple figures from the budget: The car drivers pay by way of mineral oil tax, standard consumption tax, motor insurance tax and motor vehicle tax this year 5.1 and € 5.3 billion next year – €5 300 million! What do you think is going on in high-ranking road construction? – 18 million €, a memorial post. Then a part goes to the countries and communities for their road construction – and what happens to the other part of the money? – 3.3 billion of this money is spent on railway infrastructure, public services of the railways and ÖBB-pensions. That is exactly what this amount is. They're already wondering: What are still high-level roads built of? – Well, that’s what it says: You pay these over €5 billion so that your conscience will be calmed if, instead of driving with the ÖBB, you drive by car, but as drivers you pay again: There's the vignette, there's the road pricing, and there's the special toads. This together again accounts for about € 1 billion, and that is the money with which the high-ranking streets are built. – Since it is being made too little for railway construction and too much for road construction, it is simply a denial of reality. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wattaul.]] I would like to say something to Mr Fleckl. I also regret that we have not come to the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel, I have always been an professing advocate of this... – Yes. [[Abg. Wattaul: That's the pomp too!]] I have always been a professing supporter of this project, and I have also been a member of the tunnel award commission. We were just before the award, but we had promised that the issuer would teach all the official approvals. We could not teach the nature protection permit, so we had to withdraw the procedure and can only rebuild it once we have all the permits. [[Abg. Wattaul: If the Lord wants Pröll!]] To the railway infrastructure. As I said, With the money for the railway infrastructure, there is an increase of €1 180 million in 2002 to €1 363 million in 2004. That's a huge increase. In addition, please add some €700 million each year, which are spent through the rail infrastructure financing company. So the relationship, which is constantly being used, is clearly in favour of the rail. For the public service, € 624 million is spent per year, this year and next year. Here, too, the State fulfils its mission to promote public transport. Public transport. I am pleased that the Federal Government is at least continuing to fulfil its obligations to promote transport associations. It is true that, although the amount fell from € 69 million in 2002 to € 63 million in 2004, the federal government had to withdraw from the public transport associations due to the ÖPNRVG. However, I am pleased that the proportion of about 50 percent in the East-Region Transport Association and a third in the other transport associations is nevertheless paid by the federal government, even if it is not a partner. And I ask that these grants be maintained in the future – the transport associations need them. As Vienna's representative, I am also very grateful for the fact that these around 1.5 billion schillings, which are now around 109 million euros, continue to flow for metro construction. But: Mr Federal Minister, this contract applies only to the current third phase of the extension of the metro construction. You know for sure that Vienna is currently preparing the fourth phase of expansion. I would therefore ask you to conclude another contract with the country of Vienna, so that these payments of € 109 million per year will also be made for the period of the fourth phase of expansion. For private railway promotion; this is the last point. It continues to provide € 25 million per year for private railways. This is very important so that the various national railways can survive and expand their infrastructure. [[Abg. Wattaul: They must be treated equally as the ÖBB!]] It's just that the private railway support law is running out now. At least it would have to be extended, but the very great request I would make on behalf of those public transport undertakings which do not belong to the Federal Government, to you, Mr Federal Minister, an indefinite extension of the Private Railway Support Act, so that these €25 million, including in the years after 2004, will continue to be available for public transport. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6522	Mrs Scharer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6541	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Although there has been only a slight increase in the number of road accidents involving personal injury in 2002, the sharp increase in alcohol-influenced accidents is striking. In the state of Salzburg, for example, there was an increase of plus 39 percent in 2002. Unfortunately, there is the impression that the legal drug alcohol has been pushed out of public consciousness. I think, Minister, that information campaigns on alcohol in road transport will undoubtedly not be enough to address this problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In particular, young people are very affected and at risk. In turn, I address the rural area with poorly developed public transport networks, excessive taxi charges, few disco buses. This, of course, causes young people to get alcoholized into the car. Alternative and appropriate public transport services are missing, and I think there is a high level of need. In this context, it will also be important to address the rehabilitation of neural accidents. The question is: Where are these measures packed in your budget? – Each of the 956 victims killed by road accidents in 2002 is one thing too much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A very important issue, Mr Minister, is undoubtedly the transport safety of the Austrian tunnels. The terrible events of the Tauerntunnel fire must not be forgotten. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I call on you to act quickly and to begin with the immediate construction of the second tunnel tube. There is no doubt that we must take into account the needs of the local people, but the ever-increasing volume of traffic in this Neuralgian north-south connection must be imperative for you, Mr Minister, to implement this construction project now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Already in the times of the former Minister of Transport Forstinger, it was promised to update the traffic safety of all Austrian tunnels. – There is little to nothing passing in this area. I can inform you of the latest ADAC study: Austria is in the final third of the reviews in the European comparison. All of the tunnels tested in Austria have been marked with “satisfying”. For example, in the field of transport and traffic monitoring, the pan tunnel is considered to be “favourable”. All the tunnels tested in Austria have inadequate facilities in the escape and rescue routes, Mr. Minister. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Need for action!]] As an operational leader in the crisis centre for members of the terrible tunnel disaster in Kaprun, I am still personally under the impression of this terrible event. I call on you, Minister and Secretary of State, to take appropriate measures to address the identified and known shortcomings in general, but primarily in relation to the Austrian tunnels. Act! – It's too late to react!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6595	Mr Gorbach has spoken. Time left: 5 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6614	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Scharer, to come straight to your remarks: Your demands, your wishes have arrived well with me, because when it comes to increasing safety on Austrian roads, I am always with you, especially as regards tunnels, keyword: second tube. However, I am not at all of the opinion of some experts who think that one-plugged traffic tunnels are safer than direction lanes in two-shaped tunnels! I will therefore do everything to increase tunnel expansions in the sense of safety. And I have also received your other demands, Mrs Scharer, in a positive way, especially as I am glad that I have your support. I would also like to say a few things about research, because there has been a relatively large amount of discussion, although the time is too short to discuss this more comprehensively. – It is nice that Mr Broukal and Dr. Grünewald have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Just sitting together: the two research experts within the opposition. I am very pleased, and I am also pleased that we now have more to do with each other, although you said, Mr Grünewald, that you would analyse the problem medically, but then immediately started with “resurrection” by saying that clear diagnostics are important, not pink-red glasses and so on. – Here I am also your opinion, just: I no longer agree with your cardiovascular method, Mr. Dr. Grünewald. In the future, I will continue to discuss this issue with you, Dr. Grünewald, but I will not consult you as a doctor, because you think too little positive. I need a doctor who also thinks positively, but above all I need to think about new methods. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, we must also not neglect conventional methods – and I am already with you, very much appreciated Mr Broukal, whom you have said here, anno would lack € 2 billion in this area. This must have been a mistake, because that's for three years, so in this legislative period. I would be glad if this were to be seen correctly, because it was a bit inaccurate, but Mr Gradwelt, your colleague for the political groups, meant that there would be €600 million for research in 2004. Mr Gradwelt has probably meant the special tranche. Unfortunately, that is not true! I would like this money, of course, but only get about €180 million of it. Nevertheless, I give you the right, Dr. Grünewald and Mr Broukal: We have, if the economic/industry/public funding ratio continues to develop as it is now, at just under 60 percent – around 59 percent of the share falls on the economy, the rest on the public hand – so if this goes on – you know these figures – we will have about €500 million too little. That is to say, not 2 billion, but 1.5 would be expected to be three times higher, resulting in 1.3 billion euros that we need during this legislative period. In order to reach 2.5 percent by 2006, countries may be able to contribute slightly, which is 1.1 percent. 600 million we have, 0.5 percent. If this ratio did not change, we would land at 2.2% of GDP. Only: We're on the right track. I confirm what you say. The research report states that Austria is an average country, which the R&D ratio reaches, but: We are now on the right track, on the right track, as far as the share is concerned. The share of industry and industry was still significantly lower until recently, therefore: It is also possible to make more investments through framework conditions that are “friendly” for the economy! We hope that we all hope that economics and industry will do more in the field of research and development. The State will, of course, also have to contribute to this, but it must, above all, vote on the framework conditions. To this end, Mr Lopatka has just said that, through incentives to promote, for example through tax exemptions, there can be a lot of things – and on that I do too! I am also with you that we have too few researchers in Austria. According to my information, 4 500 are missing; They mentioned the number of 10 000 in this context. But perhaps we can agree that in the EU as a whole, to reach the 3 percent target by 2010, there are no 500,000 researchers. There are still interesting figures to be exchanged, but I leave this now – and I would just like to say to you: Please acknowledge that this government attaches great importance to the R&D area and that as much investment is being made for this area, for the entire legislative period and not just for the year 2003, as much as never before! That's a fact you don't come around! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, because you already said in the committee that you lack a contact person, you need “one time a minister of research” because you never know who is actually responsible for it: I hope that this contact person is clearly recognizable for you! In any case, I am trying in this direction, and I, of course, as Minister of Research, would like to make more money available, but there is also a need to adapt to the circumstances, although I would like to conclude on this subject: Other countries envy us about the National Research Plan we have in place. And I expect a lot from the National Foundation we want to set up for this – by the way, this is also part of the government programme. I believe that with these considerations we are overall on the right path, namely to increase the research rate. Mr Gradwelt has said that we would be ‘rounding up’ there. – So I don’t see it that way, because four years ago we were at 1.8 and now we’re 1.96 percent. If this goes on, it will be 2.2 or 2.5 percent in 2006 when the economy participates. – And you can see that: The direction is right! Finally, I would like to call you: Why don't we try together? – I would now like to strengthen the favorite speech of a researcher, a recent-century hiking researcher, David Livingstone, who once said: “I am ready to go anywhere, provided it be forward!” – Translated: I'm going everywhere, provided it's moving forward! Please go, ladies and gentlemen, from the opposition parties, but also with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6711	Mr Kurzbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Desirable for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6729	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gradwelt said that this federal government was already in the fourth year – and that only air locks had been built by it. Mr. Broukal has put down another "buyer" and here spoke of a "fata Morgana". [[Abg. He's right!]] – I think you should call things very well by name, but stick to the truth. [[Abg. Broukal turns his laptop to the speaker, whose screen shows bar graphs and the words “F&E editions of the federal government”.]] Mr Broukal, you have tried to present this in this pillar programme, and you have said: the red bars under Minister One; the other under the government of Schüsel I. I have the figures of Statistics Austria here, and on page 18 you can read the following. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] On this page, the financing of the F&E quota is set out. Now I'm just talking about the part of the federal government: This share of the federal government – which can be clearly seen – remains the same from 1994 to 1998, with about € 1 billion. [[Abg. Gradwell: This is not the same thing!]] In 1994, ladies and gentlemen, the total R&D ratio was €2.5 billion. So let's look at the year 2002: In 2002, this total is € 4.2 billion, a plus of €1.7 billion and 68 percent respectively. – In view of this fact, I therefore find it not quite fair to stand out here and claim that in this area the government has done nothing in recent years! Another correction, Mr Broukal: Total expenditure in this area in 2002, i.e. around € 4.2 billion, means an increase of 4.6 percent compared to 2001 – and not, as you have said, of about 3%. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Broukal: I am now talking about the federal share!]] Since my speaking time is coming to an end: Ladies and gentlemen, especially with this EUR 600 million offensive programme, divided into the years 2004 to 2006, sufficient funds are available, so that it will ultimately succeed in achieving this 2.5 percent of GDP target. This, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore a good condition – and this should also help the economy to further develop Austria's economic location in particular. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6813	The next speaker is Mr Schopf. He's got the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6832	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! High house! It is a fact, especially in the field of research and development, not only in Austria, but of course also at European and international level, that economic growth, competitiveness of our enterprises and national economies are determined by research and development, as well as by the training and exploitation of modern technologies. The aim of all – especially the Federal Government – must be to increase the research rate from year to year. A high research rate means positive signals for the economy, positive signals for employment, for the labour market – and: relatively low unemployment rates. The problem is low: poor economic indicators, higher unemployment rates. The government has set itself a reasonable objective, namely to spend 2.5% of GDP on research and development. The fact is that, to read in some press releases of the most diverse ministries – it is not a minister, but there are three or four ministers responsible for this field – has set this target for 2003. And see: In recent months, in recent weeks, this has been changed by moving this target by three years, just to 2006. – Obviously there are more important things for you. At this point I can refer to the twenty billion expensive fighters. For that money that's going to be shot there, research and development in un- to encourage the future of our country to a great extent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to point out here – Mrs ÖVP Member Friser has already done so – that there are a number of countries with lower R&D ratios, but also: There are a number of European countries which have a much higher rate of research and development: Germany, France, Sweden or Finland, to name just a few. Unlike you from the government parties, I believe that these tasks and duties are neglected. However, there are a number of companies that have taken a lot of money into their hands for research and development. A warm thank you to this company! And I think that the key figures of these companies speak a clear language. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, need to create economic incentives so that those companies which have so far invested very little money in this area invest more in the future, and we also need to create the necessary important framework conditions for this. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6914	The motion for a resolution, which has been read by Mr Schopf, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Glaser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the The clock is set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6935	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! As one who cannot drive around the largest building site in Austria around the A 2 in the south of Vienna, I would like to begin by saying a word of recognition to those persons who ensure that this construction site is managed in such a way that one actually progresses more or less fluidly on three tracks. [[Call the SPÖ: Drive by train!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: There is no one there!]] Of course, it happens from time to time, but still: I am grateful and admire these people there how great they manage this construction site. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also grateful that the main rails on the motorways, both on the side and in the middle, are exchanged. Especially as far as the concrete main rails in the middle are concerned, I think one has a really much higher sense of security. We are also happy to take up temporary disabilities for this purpose. But now on the subject of traffic. That is my biggest concern, how we can cope with traffic towards the east in the next few years. Since the fall of the Iron Curtain, road traffic has multiplied here. For a period of time, the existing federal roads have been built up, but with the EU enlargement next year, this is impossible. However, this federal government has responded accordingly to the general transport plan, but not only with the plan, but also with its implementation, which will really be driven forward in the coming years, so that it can be hoped that by 2010 much of the high-level links will be completed towards the east and the north – an important prerequisite, as I believe, for the economy of this area to develop accordingly. Here too, this Federal Government deserves a great deal of thanks! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr. Bundesminister Gorbach, an Achillesferse, you have so to speak, namely, the south-east of Austria with the entire infrastructure; In this context, they have called Carinthia and Styria. I would be grateful, Mr Federal Minister, if in future you would also consider the middle and southern Burgenland, my constituency, because of course we are also heavily affected: especially with the extension of the S7, the connection of the motorway from Ilz towards Hungary. [[Federal Minister Gorbach: Of course!]] – But I still believe that we are on a good path. Not only the extension of the road, but also that of the rail is extremely important. We already had a discussion about the Semmering Base Tunnel, also about the Koralm Tunnel. I do not wish to interfere as a Burgenländer deliberately, but I would already point out that a railway link in the West Hungarian region, a very dynamic area with a population of 1 million people, with Ödenburg and Steinamanger as centers, with Eisenstadt, with the south and east of Styria, is necessary and that this space simply needs a corresponding high-level transport connection on the rails. I would therefore ask that the extension of this railway line should also be taken seriously and that it should be carried out massively and in a short time. In this sense, I hope that we will see and experience a lot of positive things in the next few years as far as the development of the transport lines to the east and the north is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7005	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7023	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. Federal Minister Gorbach, you said in your speech: Go with the opposition parties too! – The question is only how we should go, Minister of State. There are just legitimate doubts as to whether what you have presented goes in the right direction. Finally, I would like to point out that the transport problem is in itself an essential reason for the failure to achieve the Kyoto objectives. This problem is certainly not easy to solve! There is a need for future concepts that take place over several legislative periods; of course, this is clear to us. The priority for public transport should not be just a key word that is constantly being taken into the mouth. It is about showing right here that this is also being implemented, Minister of State. In my opinion, the three-track extension of the West motorway is not a signal in this direction, because there heavy traffic – who is often on this road, knows it – is increasing from year to year. The figures speak for themselves. In the future, traffic on the north-south axis will also increase dramatically, and it has already increased. In particular, from this point of view, and also from the above-Austrian point of view, we are concerned, especially now that there is still the opportunity to address future-oriented concepts and, in line with the North-South axes in the public sector, to make sure that, in the future, the heavy traffic between Graz and Prague is on the rails. I would therefore urge you to support us, Mr Federal Minister, and I would also like to ask the Members from Upper Austria to support our motion for a resolution, which we have already tabled here, in order to include the extension of the Pyrn Corridor and Summerauer Bahn in the list of priority projects. This would be a central necessity from the above-mentioned point of view. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to address the opportunities you have in your research and development department in order to make greater use of renewable energies in the future. I think that, in the future, your department will also be responsible for the mailboxes, it was about converting them and using biofuels in this area. This would be a first step towards promoting the use of renewable energy in public transport, even in the sense of a model effect. I would just like to say one to Mr Kukacka. In his understanding as a State Secretary, he obviously tends to be similar to that of the Minister of Finance, who wants to advertise and want to advertise advertising customers for the People's Party newspapers on the letter paper of the Ministry of Infrastructure. [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: This is an old hat!]] Mr Kukacka, I think this is really difficult and would like to ask you to take the consequences from it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7066	The next speaker is Mr Kainz. Also the same speaking time, as all the following speakers. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7084	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Transport infrastructure means mobility, and mobility is an important part of our society today. It is a basis for Austria's economic location, but also an indispensable and no longer necessary basis in today's leisure design. Being mobile is also part of the quality of life. As a regional representative from the southern Lower Austria, I am well aware of the increase in the frequency of passenger and truck transport. The daily traffic on the A2, the South motorway, amounts to 90 000 vehicles, at the level of Mödling 110 000 and in the area of the node Vösendorf even 150 000 vehicles. We in the southern Lower Austria have not only a high level of transport, but also excellent public transport. In my district, in my district capital, the South Railway, the Badener Bahn and Buses operate in tact traffic and are also excellently accepted by the population. The improvement of transport infrastructure is not only included in the government programme. It is above all a policy in the sense of people in the regions, just as we see it from the EIA, but also from the FPÖ and will also implement it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Transport infrastructure must also be further improved in the sense of Austria's economic location. However, with transport infrastructure I mean not only the road network, but of course also the rail network and the railways. There are also projects – and these are also important measures in transport policy – on the subject of “saving traffic”. With us in the region of Wienerwald, there is now a model project “Save Transport”, which also involves the useful and targeted use of bicycle traffic or the intention to walk short distances on foot, involved and with it. The two-track extension of the Pottendorfer line from Inzersdorf to Wampersdorf is also important, which not only increases safety, but also brings a significant improvement for the commuters. The four-track extension of the A 2 from Guntramsdorf to Vösendorf, but above all the increased extension of the South motorway in the area of the southern Lower Austria to Vienna Neustadt are important measures. The districts of Baden and Bruck an der Leitha face huge opportunities as a result of the forthcoming EU enlargement. The Federal State of Lower Austria has been exemplary in the Lower Austrian national transport concept. It also provides for new bridges and transport links with our neighbouring countries, and these projects will be implemented. I believe that the Federal Government has put in place proper measures in the sense of transport infrastructure. Support this budget! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7141	Mr Steindl has been invited to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7181	Thank you for the invitation, Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! At the last meeting of the Transport Committee, one of the topics was the recurring review of agricultural tractors and tractors. At present, some 335,000 tractors and tractors are allowed, and the annual new registration is approximately 6,000 units. The annual review period for agricultural vehicles such as tractors and tractors should now also be adjusted to three – two – passenger cars after first registration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Is it good, isn't it?]] The high technical standard as well as the significantly longer maintenance intervals of these new tractors and tractors enable the increase of the assessment intervals. As a car entrepreneur, I am engaged in the practice of recurring review, so I would like to give you a brief report on the technical review of the car wesen. In Austria, 4 021,000 passenger cars, 891 000 trucks and some 600 000 single-track motor vehicles are currently approved. For about 30 years, the authorised car workshops and the automobile racing clubs have been authorised by the respective national governments to carry out the recurring reviews in accordance with § 57a on passenger cars and motorcycles. These authorised workshops and test facilities are subject to strict legal regulations and standards, both in the training of the respective test bodies and in the technical equipment of these test bodies. For a number of years, the review of trucks and trailers according to § 55 is also possible for car workshops with appropriate technical equipment and correspondingly trained personnel. This new possibility is often used by the fleet companies because it has become possible to carry out the technical inspections during the maintenance work. Thus, standing times of the vehicles can be avoided and costs reduced. Overall, the reviews on motor vehicles at the car workshops and the test stations of the clubs have developed very well according to § 57a and § 55. The federal states were thus able to relieve their technical departments considerably and thus save administrative costs. Along the main roads such as Brenner Autobahn, Tauern Autobahn or West Autobahn, technical test points have been set up in recent years by the competent national authorities to verify trucks and trailers. In these test stations, the technical condition of domestic and foreign trucks as well as the loading state shall be checked. Experience has shown that very often foreign trucks with gross technical deficiencies are on the way on Austria's motorways, thus affecting road safety on Austria's roads. These new test sites thus provide additional safeguards for road users. Overall, in Austria, we have an excellently functioning test system for motor vehicles and have a leading position within Europe. Technically sound vehicles are the prerequisite for road safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7224	Mr Ing. Winkler is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7242	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! As a Carinthian Member of Parliament, it is of course a special concern to me to talk about the lifeline of the North-South connection. In particular, we are concerned that the extension of the South Railway with the construction of the Koralm Railway and the Semmering Base Tunnel is being carried forward. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we are also concerned about the necessary loophole by extending the former Trieste federal road between Jüdenburg and Friesach. I do not think it is necessary to mention in particular that it is of great importance for the economic sites of Carinthia and Styria, but especially for the many businesses in Carinthia and Styria, that this vein of life, as I have already said, be extended accordingly. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dobnigg.]] The Koralm Railway is not only an indispensable transport life nerve for the Styria and Carinthia, it is an economic necessity for the entire Republic. The Federal Government has decreed the concrete planning of the Graz–Koralm-Tunnel–Klagenfurt section. With a total investment volume of around €2.3 billion, according to the IHS study 2002, this route has a national economic impact of € 18.7 billion. The city of Graz is the Koralmbahn so important that it also invests €35 million in its urban area. The Graz–Koralm-Tunnel–Klagenfurt line brings from a regional economic point of view a forecast annual economic impulse of around € 167 million. Mr. Federal Minister Gorbach, if your first impression on taking office It has led to the statement that the new South Railway with the Semmering Base Tunnel and the Koralm Tunnel is an important measure, so your first impression has certainly confirmed itself, and you have certainly not been wrong, because the first impression is, as you say so beautifully, always the best. I am convinced that this impression will be confirmed, not least because, with the EU enlargement, both to the north and to the south, Austria no longer has the external border, but is at the centre of economic life, and therefore this link between the economic area from the north and the south is of particular importance. The construction of the Semmering base tunnel is therefore of such importance and importance that this has even moved us to submit the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7318	The motion for a resolution on the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7340	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I am not speaking now as a Lower Austrian to the Semmering Base Tunnel, but rather to the speech by Mr Gradwelt – he is not here now, unfortunately! – come back. Mr Gradwelt spoke of airlocks in connection with the transport policy of this Federal Government. Air locks and locks as a whole always have a past, but in particular this reminds me of the ruins of transport policy. In this connection, I can mention the inter-urban railway from the Sekanina era, the Federal Minister One and also, because I come from the inter-regional region. I am rather with Mr Eder or Mr Marizzi, who, in connection with the Eastern Region, have meant that some 70 percent of the measures needed to increase freight transport are necessary. These measures, which are necessary, relate to events and failures of this time. What can be found in the area around Wiener Neustadt today, in the municipalities of Sollau or Felixdorf? – Mr deputies, you know the situation: [[Abg. Marizzi: That was Farnleitner!]] 14 000 vehicles a day by Sollau! This federal government has enabled us to find rapid solutions – in cooperation with the city of Wiener Neustadt and with the municipalities, across political party borders – so that we can build the east crossing and finally get a fourth track in connection with the South motorway. 1964 – there is a very long-lasting competence of SPÖ Transport Ministers – we had 6,000 vehicles on the South motorway, today there are 150 000 vehicles! We need measures in Lower Austria for our economic location. Lower Austria has experienced economic growth that is set off from the other federal states. We are geopolitically driven from the Iron Curtain to the centre of Europe, so we must also align the traffic flows there. With regard to the resolution on broadband offensive introduced by the SPÖ, I can say that the country of Lower Austria is again a pioneer. We have provided €14.5 million to start this broadband offensive in our federal state within one year. We are currently at a 40 percent coverage requirement, and 60 percent of companies already have this possibility. In short, the general transport plan of the Federal Government and the measures in the field of infrastructure: €2.2 billion for the next government period, many opportunities remain. My concern would be that sustainability in the environment will not be forgotten and that we should focus on the use of depleted fuels, but also on the possibility of Russian particulate filters. [[Abg. Wittauer: In the government program!]] Because of the short period of time, I can conclude. I believe that good measures are being taken on the part of this Federal Government in the field of infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7389	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7408	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to follow Mr Glaser, who thanked him for various areas that are positive in terms of transport. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] But I would like to extend this thanks to hundreds, if not thousands of Heinzelmänn, who along all roads at federal and national level ensure that we have such a well-functioning road network, and that Make sure we have a clean road network. If you look into other countries of Europe, you know, I think that great things are done here! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, I would like to emphasise the importance of Carinthia as a transit country once again from the Carinthian side – Mr Winkler has done it – because besides Tyrol and Salzburg, I think Carinthia plays an important role there. We have on the one hand the A 10, the Tauern motorway. Much has already been said about the expansion, Katschberg Tunnel, Tauerntunnel – I think something really has to happen very soon here. From this point of view, I would also like to ask the state government in Salzburg to become active and perhaps not to leave some citizen initiative too much space. That's where, I mean, we really have to give priority to expansion. I am convinced that the issue of toll exemption is not from the table. The district of Spittal has a bad position with regard to the district of Lungau or the Lungau as such, and one should also argue that we demand equality here so that we do not make the state of Carinthia worse. In addition, a short excursion to the B 100, a much debated topic in recent weeks and months. I respect the views of the Tyroleans that they too want money for the expansion of the B 100, I also respect the opinion that the Drautal does not stop in Oberdrauburg, but must say that I do not respect that decisions taken by the Constitutional Court are lifted, I do not respect the fact that money that has been promised fixed is put aside and thus not only blocked the Carinthians, but also the Tyroleans. I really call here on the Carinthian representatives of all parties, but also on the Tyrolean colleagues, to try to find a decent solution, because the inhabitants of the Drautales do not deserve to stand on a semi-finished road and lose these funds again after a 30-year struggle. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the subject of rail still a short time. The two-track expansion of the Tauernbahn is probably a very fruitful and truly forward-looking project. Here there is an investment of over 1.6 billion schilling in the next few years. This is a very important impulse, not only for the creation of this transit route, but also an important impetus for the economy. However, I would like to make it clear here that we should do everything we can to ensure in the future that we do not only have large companies carrying out such projects – with all my appreciation for these companies; they are important, they are certainly important employers – but we should also be careful that through tendering procedures we start trying to let the companies in the region get to the train. It cannot be that such a thing is recorded in the block and only large corporations come to the train. We have local small and medium-sized enterprises, contractors, earth-moving companies that also deserve to have a place here that deserves to get orders here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Finally, taking note of the fact that the 3 minutes are over very quickly, I would like to make a top-kärnt request: I appeal to all those responsible in the politics that the exchange lock also remains really preserved. This is a very important needle tube between Salzburg and Carinthia, between the Gasteinertal and Oberkärnten. Zig Pendler live by the fact that there is this lock. Please, make sure that we have a working exchange lock in the future too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7495	The last speech in the debate on this chapter is made by Mr Eßl. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7513	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I can't follow my previous speaker's remarks now if he thinks that the district of St. Veit would be worse placed against the Lungau. [[Abg. Neudeck: I think so!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Spittal!]] Excuse me that the district of Spittal would be worse compared to the Lungau. – I think it's more reverse. That is why I would like to take this short time to draw attention to the problems in my home country. The Lungau is a district which is economically disadvantaged because of its geographical situation. Nearly 2,500 people, more than a quarter of the employees, have to do their work outside the district, in a significant number of weekly commuters. Since there is no railway connection other than the more or less nostalgic Murtal train, our businesses are fully dependent on the road transport link. There are two problems. Problem one: The Lungau is only reachable by the Tauerntunnel or the Katschberg Tunnel in de facto. This means special toll and thus a significant competitive disadvantage, especially in connection with the new road pricing. This effect is reinforced by the great distance from the strong economic areas. On the other hand, what acts as a desirable brake for transit traffic also inhibits healthy economic development in this district. I would therefore like to make the urgent request to all to oppose this injustice and to advocate a special regulation on the transport of destination and source in the Lungau and the Lungau, as we did some years ago. Problem two: The Tauern motorway A 10 is of great importance as a transport connection. We speak for the construction of the second tunnel tube, both in the Katschberg tunnel and in the Tauern Tunnel, but it is absolutely necessary to take into account the local interests of the inhabitants of the communities along the Tauern motorway, in particular the Zederhaus valley. I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to work to ensure that the negotiations and, as you have said in a reply to a question, the voting on the time and financial framework with the neighbouring countries are speedily progressed and properly taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7561	I have no further comments to make on this chapter. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, was that a word? [[Abg. May. Molterer: (pointing to the gallery) No, my aunt!]] [[A lady is waving down the gallery.]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] That's not a word report. Education, Science and Culture Chapter 12: Education and culture Chapter 14: Science
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7613	We are now entering into the negotiation of the part of education, science and culture. Mr Ddr. spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Decliner. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7634	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! After the discussion on innovation in technology, we now come to innovation in our minds, education policy. This morning again, an urgent call for help from a trade academy for professionals has reached us. The maturants fear that the hourly cuts threaten the international recognition of their matura. And, in fact, The cuts in lessons especially in schools for professionals, which have already had a very, very short hourly table, are the best example of the fact that it was only about savings and not about redundancies. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Brosz.]] With this saving course, the future of education, science and research and thus the future of our country is at stake. You have admitted, Mrs Gehrer, the saving course in education in a press conference and you have spoken about the need to take the bacon that has been collected in good times. That, Mrs. Minister, was still honest, and we registered it. It is all the more reprehensible that the Minister of Finance wanted to make us aware of the fact that the budget for science and research has been doubled since 1999. I was horrified at the fact that last week the Federal Chancellor himself repeated these figures again. – This is not a serious deal with Parliament! We expect a minimum of honesty, not only from a member of the government, but from the entire government. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Brosz.]] They are constantly stressing – you will certainly do this again today – that education is a priority of this budget. What does this focus really bring? – More than 6,000 teachers have been saved and will be saved, the Federation will block its adult education funding facilities and send a significant proportion of early retirement staff. . Ladies and gentlemen will provide you with further examples of this saving course. Education and science are therefore not a focus, but a weakness of this budget and of this black and blue government. This is an important reason for us from the SPÖ, an educational party, not to give the budget our consent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us now turn to something more encouraging, the Future Commission. She should “rethink the school. ” The author of the book by the same name, Hartmut von Hentig, has added a subtitles: ‘A training in educational reason’. This has always been our approach to education policy, and reason tells us that it is wrong and unfair if around 15 percent of children and Youths in school and partly through the school get their chance to look to the future. For this I count those who cannot read when they are finished with school, those children from remote layers or mentally and physically disadvantaged, but also simply inappropriate children. We cannot afford this socially and economically. Reason also tells us that we need schools that do not strengthen the differences and inequalities that prevail in society, but help to reduce these inequalities. Reason also tells us that we need to bring the share of women in employment into the EU's cut and that it already plays a role in whether the children come home at 12 o'clock or at 4 p.m. In a survey in Upper Austria and Vienna, about three-quarters of the parents voted in favour of expanding the range of all-day schools in their different forms. And in a growing Europe, we are well advised to learn from those who are in front of us in these comparative studies. All the countries in front of us in the PISA study have schools that are run all day, and all those in front of us do not have an early decision on the education career of the children with the 10. Year of life. They provide motivated teachers who work in teams with more autonomous schools, a good education and training in didactics and a constant review of the curriculum. You have no money for all of this, and for what would cost nothing, you still don't set the right priorities for ideological concerns. Today’s “NEWS”, Mrs. Minister – and that didn’t please me at all – leads you among the seats and writes: “Bad grades for the schoollord. 47 percent of the minister misses a four or five. It is hard, but not undeserved." I'm just adding: Save us all the review!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7736	The next speaker is Mr Amon. Preferred speaking time: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7754	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If I see that, for example, we are first in the education expenditure of the six to fifteen years of age worldwide, then I have to say, the Federal Minister is a favorite student, and I do not think you need to worry about whether she is going to do well this school year or not. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rossmann.]] But now on education policy. I mean – I also want to admit – it is right to say that it is difficult to implement what the Minister for Education is doing in times of budgetary reorganisation. And if there is talk of saving in education here, that is not the reality. If you look at the figures for the education budget about in 2002, you will notice that we had an education budget of €5.65 billion in 2002, in 2003, we have an education budget of €5.85 billion, an increase, and we will have an education budget of €5.87 billion in 2004. Is that more or less? – It is an increase in the educational budget, ladies and gentlemen, and for the sake of honesty one should acknowledge that, I think, too. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rossmann.]] However, I would be quite right if we did not just talk about the budget on the issues of education policy, but actually asked us – Mr Niederwieser did this in part – specifically also educational questions. You have raised a few interesting points here that I would like to address. For example, you ask for all-day school forms – especially your city school council president in Vienna is a precursor to this – and here you claim that there are practically all European states, especially in the successful, all-day school forms. There are also school forms in Austria all day long. But it is essential – and I think it must be possible to find a political form here too – that such a full-day school form, such an afternoon service offer should be made on a voluntary basis and that such a full-day school form should be offered where there is a need for it. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: I said yes, in the different forms!]] In addition, it must be a flexible model, where you also have the opportunity to give children not over a whole semester or even a whole year in the afternoon care, but also for about two or three weeks. This is a model where we can find ourselves. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rossmann.]] A full-day school form to which children are obliged is nowhere in Europe. Even in very successful education systems, such as those in Finland – we looked at this very carefully, Mr Brosz was there at the time – there is a full day care offer, but there is no obligation on young people. But that's exactly what your city council councillor calls for. And that's where I tell you: That won't be to do with us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Moreover, the PISA study also shows very clearly that it is not the organisational form of schools that is crucial to whether an education system is successful or not. There are a number of factors that are decisive. They want to abolish the primary schools – at least the Vienna city council president. But I tell you, we are not available for this because we have a positive experience with the primary schools. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] About 50 percent of the maturants in Austria come across the main schools. We have excellent primary schools, especially in rural areas, but we have a problem in the agglomeration centres, for example in Vienna, where we no longer have first and second performance groups in most primary schools, but only third performance groups. There the primary schools become deadlocks, ladies and gentlemen, and this is contrary to the education policy we are seeking. We want the right answers here. Their answer to the problem of the urban primary schools is to abolish the primary schools and establish an overall school, a common school of between 10 and 14 years old in the AHS sub-level, which is indistinguishable. That's not our educational draft. We want a differentiated education system, we want a system of education, which distinguishes according to inclinations, by talent. We see this clearly in Finland or Sweden, where there are schools that are developed, for example, according to the Skolverket model, or where there are successful private schools according to the model of the former Minister of Education Per Unclel, in fact, a differentiated model. I think we should think much more about how we can develop quality in all Austrian schools. We have a relatively good international comparison, but we are not yet where we want to go. I say that in all clear terms. However, it is the merit of the Minister for Education that we have these comparisons today. There were no international comparisons at all in the past. Only since Minister of Education Elisabeth Gehrer is in office have there been these international comparisons that are necessary to further improve quality. I think we should find ourselves politically and think about how we can further improve the quality of Austrian schools, and not think about how we violently destroy individual forms of school.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7833	Mr Brosz spoke next. 10 minutes of speech time will be adjusted. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7851	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister for Education! At the beginning of this educational debate, it is appropriate to clarify what the figures in the educational budget actually look like, since the Minister of Finance has tried to make it clear to us that over the next two years university expenditures are supposed to double in particular and there is a massive increase in educational expenditures in total. First of all, I would like to deal with an argument put forward by Mr Amon, who has always meant that expenditure does not increase to the extent compared to GDP, but that is true for the entire budget, because expenditure is currently being generally reduced on the basis of a more restrictive budgetary policy. This is why the OECD still measures in relation to gross domestic product. – This is done, and you have to consider whether this is an adequate comparison size. But I would also like to comment on the discussion with you: Let us go the other way, and let us look at how educational expenditure develops compared to the total expenditure of Austria, namely only to budgetary expenditure. That would be a fair comparison from your point of view. I mention only the gross domestic product of the years 2000 – which is probably a serious comparison, since this was the first year in which the Federal Government worked – until 2004. Prognosis clearly. According to the Budget Statement of the Minister of Finance, it increases by just over 11 percent. Let us continue by looking at the functional breakdown – I quote only the figures that Mr Grasser has written in the budget issue – and the development of total expenditure from 2000 to 2004. I emphasize: the functional structure, because that's what's relevant. In the case of the so-called accounting system, there is a problem with the extension of the balance sheet, and if you look at expenditure and not what really comes out, that is too little. So let's look at the functional structure. There is an increase in total expenditure from € 58.25 billion in 2000 to € 62.57 billion in 2004. – This is an increase of 7.42 percent. If you continue to browse the issue and look at the field of education and education – i.e. school – you can see that the increase there is 3.18 percent. Thus, from 2000 to 2004 there was an increase of 7.42 percent in total expenditure, but the increase in schools was only 3.18 percent. – This is a difference of over 4 percent. [[Abg. Amon: But no reduction!]] In absolute figures, the school budget would rise as much as the total budget, by €235 million per year; that would be about 3 billion schilling for these four years. – That’s a fact. This is what budgetary policy looks like! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Lowering student numbers!]] These are the figures of the Minister of Finance who is not here. Minister for Education! Federal Chancellor! Please don't come to us constantly with the claim that there is a focus here. The educational budget has become a massive field of savings, and we criticize that vehemently! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: This is strange green mathematics!]] Interestingly, we have talked about 91 laws in the budget accompanying legislation, the hourly cuts, a not really insignificant element of financial policy, but we have not been able to do so because in Austria it is enough to cut hours by regulation. – Theoretically, you can cut half of the hours by regulation if you want. However, a two - thirds majority need to be changed to “moving and sports, ” for example. This shows that the proportionality of the legislation is not quite given here. That is why, in view of this debate, there is for the first time the possibility to present it in a slightly more detailed way. So what about these OECD data on comparison of teaching times? There is an annual study entitled “Learning for Life”. [[The speaker keeps a copy of a study up to date.]] - No, that's the PISA study, that's the wrong thing. I left the other one in the square. It is called ‘education at a glance’, and it will publish – Mr Green Forest will show it – how high the number of lessons in Austria and the OECD countries is on average. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald holds a copy of the study to the height]] According to this study, the average annual lessons for OECD countries are 1 148 for the 12- to 14-year-olds. – That’s wrong, that was the Austrian value. The average value of OECD countries is about 930 hours. [[Abg. Hornek: Now it’s going to be embarrassing! What's right about your speech?]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: What's right now?]] - I just corrected myself. Perhaps you could take note that you can make a mistake and then correct it without you being subordinated to anything. The Minister of Finance has not, by the way, done this: He has said the untruth several times! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] So: The OECD average is 936 hours, in Austria it is 1 148 hours. When you look at that, you think: That's a lot of things, there's a huge difference. Therefore, one goes into the depth and sees how this value should be calculated, one enters correspondence with the OECD, and a formula is announced to one how this should be calculated. You then calculate the value with the formula again and it comes to the point that the correct calculation for Austria results in 970 hours, not 1 148 hours, quite simply by not calculating free items and subtracting the teaching-free days. It is then seen that Austria has a difference of one hour more time per week to the OECD average before this planned hourly reduction, and not seven hours as the Ministry has indicated. Mrs. Federal Minister! That's where my criticism goes: We have repeatedly tried to get a clear answer from you through requests from the Budget Committee, which is the result of this false calculation. – You did not provide the answer. It's gonna be time you finally put the cards on the table. Your numbers are incorrect! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you look at the figures further and consider what this hourly reduction will result, it will be noted that Austria is below the OECD section after the hourly reduction one lesson per week. Of course, this could also be left in the room and say that it may not matter at an hour more or less. But you should look even deeper, and then you will see that school systems differ considerably. Austria has a school system that is still marked by the fact that de facto is the exclusive form of standard teaching, i.e. teaching, which is offered together for all in classes. However, if you look at countries such as Finland – and I come to that, Mr Amon – you will find that a non-insignificant part of the offer does not take place within this standard lesson, but that there are additional offers, promotions, which are held for parts of the students individually or in small groups. These hours are not included in the calculation. So when you make comparisons, you have to be very careful to light up the situation fairly. [[Abg. Amon: Mr Brosz, our teaching of funding is not included!]] I just call you a value for this: In the OECD study “Education at a Glance” there is also a statistics on follow-up from teachers and offers to under-educated students. – I hope these statistics are more valid than the other you provided to the OECD. 32 percent of pupils in Austria receive these special support. In the OECD average, the value for remedial assistance is 68 percent compared to 32 percent in Austria – meant by teachers in school, not private remedial assistance – and in Finland it is 93 percent. This is just the massive difference: There is a system that builds very heavily on individual support, here a system, where this is not so. If you pull these two elements together, that is, less lessons on the one hand, no support measures on the other, then you can only see the drama that this will bring with you. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Krainer.]] Since this is probably the last opportunity for this today, I make the following request: – The students will certainly not be pleased about this measure either. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Großruck: There the students will be happy!]] You can then “step ahead” me, in which the discharge consists by shortening musical objects and gymnastics. Whether this is a discharge from the students, who will no longer get exactly what was already an addition, we will see that first! [[Abg. Big Truck: 60 hours a week for an HTL student!]] Whether it is a relief from students when the learning work is increasingly transferred to the private sector, to the after-help system, if you just cut down the teaching, but the requirements remain the same, that will only show reality, Mr. Großruck! To Mr Amon, I find that remarkable. We were in Scandinavia together – at the time, Mr. Niederweiser was not an educational speaker yet, but a scientific speaker, so he was not there. We were in several schools and have everywhere seen that the common lunch and the interruption is a standard of the school system, that the school is not finished at 12 o'clock, but continues afterwards, in all the schools we have attended. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Time is over!]] The misunderstanding is that you act like a whole day school that the students sit in school until 7 p.m. or 8 p.m. This is not meant for all day school, but the class time will be there until afternoon, until 3 p.m. or 4 p.m. – This is understood by school forms all day long. This is not only a different form of care, in which parents get a care option if they can't look at their children in the afternoon, but the teaching really differs fundamentally: There are forms of interruption, there are other hourly units, there is the possibility not to work in 50 minute blocks 6 hours in a row, but after an intensive learning period, to build lunch break, care time and other forms, and that is what works. I think it is quite difficult to argue about all day school ideologically and to say that it is the “left image” that is being shaped there. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Dr. Haider, not from Carinthia, but from the head of the PISA Centre in Austria – recently during a discussion on the “standard” – I was also present at the discussion – has drawn attention to the fact that he supports the expansion of the school of the whole day. Mr Gusenbauer asked for this in the discussion at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Even in Bavaria!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Amon.]] - You weren't there! I was there and can tell you that it was so and that this is a model that is de facto undisputed in education policy. Finally, I would like to say the following: It is interesting that you always talk about how well the primary schools work in the context of rural areas. [[Abg. Hornek: That's it!]] - That's right. They are also talking about the problem in the agglomerations. Now I ask you: Where do we have the differentiation? – In the rural area, where there is de facto a system in which all students go to the same school because there are just fewer school offers there? – You can name it as you want: When everyone goes to the same school, you can say that it is a “common school” – no matter how you name it – but exactly there, what you paint in the agglomerations as the great devil on the wall works. You have to explain to me what the meaning is! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] No one has claimed that we want or want to favor an overall school system, a common school, in which there is no differentiation. That would also be completely pointless and absurd. After the PISA study, no one would demand it. The fraud is just whether a system like the Austrian, which is extremely early selected, is ideal. Finally, I just need to quote the PISA study. There are very few specific calls to countries, but it says that Austria and Germany are countries where the average economic, social and cultural status of schools has a significant impact on student performance. The recommendation to Austria is that if Austria wants to improve the school system, it must see that the social selection is abolished or reduced. – You will certainly not do this with a selective system that separates as early as possible!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8124	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, ladies and gentlemen is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8146	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the last day of the budget discussions, school policy is no longer receiving the full attention of the House, but I am still pleased that the subject is still being addressed, although the series are shaky. [[Abg. Schasching: We are very attentive!]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: We'll be careful!]] Like society, school is, of course, in constant change, need to adapt to changing conditions, react and also deal with ongoing changes. Today, the school can only prepare very limited for the future profession, but together with the parents, it forms the basis for a well-founded general education, the foundation for preparing self-confidence and self-determined young people for adulthood. At this point I would also like to welcome the school classes in the gallery, who are watching and listening to us during this debate today. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The school gets more and more tasks. Even by working mostly for both parents or especially for single mothers or fathers, she accomplishes more and more tasks of education and communication of values. Teachers have more responsibility today than they have in the last 10 or 20 years or still in my generation. On the basis of this aspect, I am quite prepared to think about other forms of school, including all day care in schools. However, this can only be based on a voluntary basis and must be designed in such a way that it is also manageable for parents, especially for single and single educators. Keeping up with the exemplary current Austrian school system is, I believe, a command of the hour. We have a school system which is second in all areas on average in Europe, even if you do not want to hear it. Therefore, it is also important to deal with the education budget in such a way that on the one hand, costs do not explode, but on the other hand, quality is ensured. That is why we also insist on the very far-reaching reform of the upper-levels and also have great expectations of the Commission on the Future, which has already come to light today. In particular, we consider the measurement of performance standards at different stages to be very important. I just remember that there was also the AHS recording test in my generation. This was simply a survey of the standard of performance to consider whether the student is mature for the AHS. I do not insist on the introduction of a recording examination into the AHS – one can discuss it, it has advantages and disadvantages – but what we need are really clear specifications of performance standards. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this context, I would also like to refer to the problem of children whose mother tongue is not German. – It must not be a taboo theme to think about how, especially in the cities, the relationship of the children does not define the German mother tongue and the children who do not speak German well, to the children of German mother tongue in the classes. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: By integrating them in time! By integrating them very early, and you don't want to!]] The very word “equal opportunities” always comes from the SPÖ. I ask you: Where does equal opportunities remain if children are enrolled in primary school who do not have German as a mother tongue and who cannot follow the teaching? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Really integrate!]] - That's your opinion. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's what we want!]] As a result, these children do not receive a proper school degree and then do not receive a teaching place. – This is one of the foundations of youth unemployment in Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It must not be a taboo theme to force German knowledge already in preschools. - That's your opinion. As in Finland, models should also be developed with an evaluation of language skills prior to entry into school. Then we can talk about real equal opportunities, if the starting position is the same. The Commission for the Future will probably have to deal with such models. In this connection, I would like to refer to the school entry stage. We liberals were at the time vehement against the model of the school entrance phase. Unfortunately, it is now again that we were right that the school entrance phase did not prove itself. That is why I also ask: How can you not bring German speaking children, above all those who live in Austria, to school with appropriate German skills? I therefore advocate rethinking the school entrance phase and sticking to pre-school models. It is also apparent that where preschool was held, it has continued to prove itself. – These schools still have great access. Like every year in summer, we have a summer school topic. Last year it was Latin lessons, this year it is the holiday reorder, the reduction of holiday times. We are quite open there and can discuss a lot of things. I am also very happy to discuss autumn holidays. This – like everything – has advantages and disadvantages. But I am also quite willing to shorten the summer holidays from the point of view of using the time for teacher training – teacher training during the holidays. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rada.]] Accordingly, teacher training courses would have to be made possible during the holidays. This is, of course, closely intertwined. However, it must also be allowed to criticise and to think out loud about how to handle the spa stays of teachers, especially those who are not directly compulsive for professional training, which must not take place immediately after a period of illness or surgery. Statistics show that most spa stays are still observed during schooling. I think it is quite reasonable to take part in the holiday, especially during the summer holidays, spa stays. What you also need to talk about are the school autonomous days. Each of us has his experience with it – from the circle of acquaintances or his own experience, no matter what: School autonomous days are often decided by the schools in such a way that sometimes a family cannot travel together on vacation, free themselves, can design leisure together, because the children have different school autonomous days, even during these so-called window days. That is why I am also pleading for the rethinking of the school autonomous days when we debate all of this now in connection with the holiday regulations. Perhaps you can take back the school autonomous days and coordinate the window days nationally and, just as winter holidays are staggered, the school autonomous days are staggering on these window days, as we now have one in front of us. This would result in a detachment of the flow of travel flows, and families could relax together – in the sense of common leisure and more shared family experience. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, the Future Commission will also have to deal with cross-border teaching. I am glad that not only we are aware of this issue, because the new Councillor in Styria has already spoken about cross-border teaching. No one can explain it to me: Why can't you teach mathematics, physics, chemistry together, or with modern communication technology? Why can't you construct graphics, curves on the computer? That would be great! And why can't you teach languages cross-border? Why is there not even a geographical or historical lesson in English or French? That would be exciting! These are the requirements that we now have to meet; these include, above all, team and project work. I think we will also have the acceptance of young people. If students are critically saying that they are being taken too little seriously throughout school development, then the reasons for looking for education is that it is not yet optimal. Only with frontal education can you no longer motivate a student. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] It is not the teachers who teach a subject where they have music power, but who have a subject that they teach alive. And there everyone has his personal experience. Thus, the Latin professor can also become the most popular professor of the school, as was the case in my daughter's school. Finally, I would like to make an appeal to the teachers, especially to those who have reached out. I'm really looking for you: Take care of the emergency, especially where important lessons have been missed by strike! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] And a second appeal or actually a request to the teachers, to the teachers in our country: Please, give me funding lessons! Work A few hours you have missed, in the form of promotion lessons – especially in summer holidays, towards the end of the summer holidays – in order to make the children fit for examinations or to promote them in objects where the children themselves want to see or promote funding needs. [[Abg. May. Trunk: Please, visit a school again so you know what you're talking about!]] In this sense, I wish everyone, including all students in the gallery, a beautiful witness and a relaxing holiday! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8321	Mrs Gehrer has now come to speak. – Mrs Federal Minister, you have 20 minutes of speech. If you talk longer, the time of the ÖVP fraction will be deducted. I'll set the clock to 20 minutes. You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8339	Mr President. High house! On several occasions, the opposition addressed the framework conditions that were supposed to be so bad for the school sector, and it was spoken of by the savings course. I would like to highlight these conditions. The framework conditions in school construction are as follows: Since 2000, 77 projects have been completed with a total cost of €380 million. 8 850 new schools were created in Austria – excellent federal schools, well equipped! At present 137 school construction projects are under planning, with an estimated construction cost of € 736 million. I ask you: Where is there a bad framework condition? The municipalities, the school holders, the countries provide the best framework conditions for schools, for primary schools, for compulsory schools, for vocational schools, and to thank them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Other key figures also indicate that we clearly have very good conditions. In the primary school, aggregated in all industrialized states, on average come to a teacher 17.7 people's students. In Austria, there is a teacher of 14.3 people's students. We have a special top position at primary schools, at secondary level 1. Here we are Europe-wide and worldwide top: For 9,6 students we provide a teacher! The average in the OECD countries is 15, ladies and gentlemen. We have the best conditions for our students! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Other facts that can all be easily read if you want to read them: In Austria, a computer comes to seven students. We are at the forefront of this Europe-wide and worldwide! In recent years, with the technology offensive, the offer has been expanded in this area. We have also invested €36 million in the technology offensive in recent years. And if you look at the budget this year, if you really read it, you'll see that this year's $36 million for this technology offensive again. We have more students in the Federal Schools. In addition, € 28 million is foreseen in the 2003 budget and € 28 million in the 2004 budget. Ladies and gentlemen! This shows that we are very likely to invest in education. For educational innovations, which you all always call for, in the various areas – educational, didactic, further developments – the so-called educational investment billion for 2004, 2005, – still in Schilling – or € 72 million, of which a third – you know, if you have read the budget – is already included in the 2004 budget. [[Abg. Broukal: I read it! I read it again and again!]] When we look at what is happening in educational innovation – I had Professor Krainer from Carinthia with me yesterday, who introduced me to the IMST project – in educational innovation in the field of natural sciences, in the field of modern didactics, in the field of modern methodology, we must say: We can be proud of our schools, be proud of our teachers and our teachers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, we have a little less expenditure on staff costs for compulsory school teachers, but, ladies and gentlemen, I also tell you where this comes from. Look The statistics are available at: Since the school year 2000/01, we have less of 13 000 people's students! Of course, this decline in the number of students will continue in the individual schools, and this also means that a slightly lower amount is necessary for staffing. This is once the framework, and I can say that: We have created good conditions with the 2003/2004 budgets, although not abundant. All that is said here is already sad at a very high level, and the responsible handling of taxpayers must be the assignment of every politician and every politician! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Second: Here at the speaker's desk, crocodile tears are constantly shed over the hours that are supposed to be deleted. [[Abg. Krainer: Amon?]] – From the speakers of the opposition! – I am now very happy to show you a whole bunch of APA broadcasts, which have been required for years: The students have to be relieved, the hours are too much, the homework is too much, the content is too much. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But reasonable! Not so conceptual!]] The last thing that was required, namely by the AKS – clearly achievable – is: Shorter working time for students! [[Abg. Brosz: That's not happening!]] We have complied with this call. [[Further call of the Abg. Brosz.]] We have complied with this call! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The first step was the 1999 curriculum: In the 1999 curriculum, the subject-matter of the programme has been discharged: with key areas, with areas of enlargement. The second step is a moderate hourly reduction. If I require from 10 to 14-year-olds that they sit in school for 30 hours and work ten to twelve hours at home, from students of the high-level gymnasium, that they sit 32,5 hours in school, and from HTL students that they have 37 hours in school – only in school! – sitting, I must also see that these are more hours than anyone who works as an employee in a farm must work weekly. I ask you: Let us not encourage the children more than we imagine ourselves! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now to the great crocodile tears, which are shed by many sides to reduce turn hours, to reduce the musical-creative hours: Look You're looking at the hourboards – the base-hour tables! Nothing's been shortened! The school has the opportunity to add something in autonomy! To demand that two hours of gym lessons be secured a week, I tell you: Two hours of gym lessons a week are secured. – This can be read out to anyone who looks at the hourboard that looks at the regulation. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Why did you shorten English?]] English will not be shortened! Look Why don't you turn on the base-hour board? I think you should be serious about this before you put false claims into the world. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In music lessons, in music-creative subjects we are at the forefront of Europe! 16 percent of our teaching is the artistic-creative subjects, and far behind are all other European countries, such as Germany and so on. 16 percent, and we're proud of that. It has been repeatedly claimed that foreign languages are shortened. – I have a request, namely a very urgent request to the ladies and gentlemen, especially the opposition: Please – please! – make your explanations, in particular regarding compulsory schooling, as they correspond to the facts! [[Abg. Brosz: Yes, we would ask you!]] At present, it is common for compulsory schools in Vienna to claim that it is the Gehrer hourly cuts that one has a few hours less in primary and compulsory school. The posts allocated to the Federal States for compulsory schools have taken up the heads of state with the Minister of Finance. These posts, which Mr Mayor Häupl has packed with the Minister of Finance, receive the country, receives the city of Vienna for distribution. By reducing the number of hours of moderate, there are more opportunities for pedagogical measures at primary schools and compulsory schools, there are more opportunities for additional offers. So one should be quite honest and really should say: If there are fewer posts, then Mr Häupl has packed with Mr Finanzminister and then it is because of the decline in school pupils. – The hourly reduction in this area does not bring a single cent and a single euro to the federal budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At this point, I would not like to miss out on thanking my employees for creating this good budget, this good framework. I do not want to miss out on thanking all my staff in schools, teachers and teachers for their commitment. I mean, these many dedicated teachers deserve to be properly informed, and they deserve to be positively represented in the public. [[Abg. Brosz: Then do it at last!]] – I ask you for this support.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8539	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8557	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Subsumingly, I understand what you have now told us, Mrs. Federal Minister: We are in one place in Europe in education expenditure, we are in 10th place according to the PISA study in the successes – Mrs. Federal Minister, you are responsible for the difference. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Ms. Schasching, but you are also a teacher! Are you guilty of it, too?]] Education should focus on the policy of the ÖVP/FPÖ government. . We note that it is not a priority in any of these points, but, as in the last period of government, it is already a very large weakness. Unfortunately, education policy is increasingly coming to an anti-opportunity policy for our youth, and that is really a pity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The budget of plus 1.4 percent does not even cover the increasing structural costs by 3.5 percent. And once again, there is less money for education – even if you always claim the opposite. Her approach has not been a pedagogicalally oriented approach for three years, but is based on the brutal spasm of the marketing finance minister Grasser. That's how it looks! How else could it be that in the middle of the implementation of curriculum reforms – you yourself have addressed it: Teaching plan 1999/2000 in the sub-level, curriculum 2002 in the upper level – an hourly reduction regulation that alone justifys the savings for the Minister of Finance and does not constitute a pedagogical measure? – That, Mrs. Federal Minister, we as SPÖ reject the sharpest! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In all these savings – even if you are constantly claiming the opposite – I find the saving of gymnastic hours, because the health of children – and this is demonstrated in the smart-fit study, where 65 000 children between the ages of 11 and 14 have been assessed and observed – the physical state of the children is worrying, and therefore I will make a corresponding request today that this be taken back. Please take this back, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are no concepts and innovative ideas, it governs against better knowledge of the Savingstift. But what do children need to be optimally prepared for life? School needs to be optimal living and learning space, so we need and demand smaller classes – that is: Reduction of the maximum number of students – and we also demand and need all day long run forms of school, not as a proposal that should only be blessed, but really as a possibility, as an option. We will all experience it and see it: If there is an offer of all-day school forms – for the benefit of children and their education – this will also be accepted by the majority of the population. That is where we find ourselves to be a consensus, but we need to get through to create this possibility where we agree. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is possible and feasible to organise learning processes in the social context in all-day school forms. It is there enough time for movement and creativity, and it opens up the possibility for working men and women to take place in school and thus reduce the exploding after-supply costs again. Mrs. Federal Minister! You have found yourself in a newspaper interview in the last few days: We need to get out of the organizational trap. – Mrs Federal Minister! You yourself have maneuvered into this organizational trap! For the benefit of our children, we want to enter into a content discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8628	The next speaker is Mrs Brinek. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8646	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to speak to the science chapter, to the universities, and start my remarks with a thank you. In the previous year, at about the same time, we were gathered here in Parliament to decide on the biggest university policy change that has taken place since the Second World War. The 2002 UG was decided by a majority – unfortunately “only” by a majority, because I believe that there could have been a greater majority in the field of universities and those interested in education. I would like to thank the universities, the actors at the universities that have implemented this law so decisively and exemplaryly, for preparing, starting and deciding to make all decisions – human and organizational – all elections, all decisions, all nominations, and I congratulate from this point of view all elected and all nominated representatives and acting persons at the universities very warmly! [[General condolences.]] I am very glad that Mrs. Federal Minister managed to nominate 50 percent of women among the university councils – that was your word, Mr. Col. – so that she showed the universities a little bit where there is still a need for action. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm coming to the Budget section. As I have already said in press releases, I say it again today: 2003 – the financial policymakers say that this is a year of the world, because we really reached the end of the first half of the year – we are sure to live with a slightly tighter budget. But priorities can be set with imagination, creativity and some effort – which should not be so difficult for university actors. In any case, this will also ensure the provision, i.e. the scope of performance in teaching and research, especially if the reserves, which would otherwise be available to the Minister of Finance, can be resolved, and thus a certain budget flexibility is achieved. Investments can and should be resettled in order to guarantee basic security in the field of teaching. Since we already decide on the 2004 budget, the universities can also plan. At the 2004 budget, we can speak with Fug and law of a very solid global budget, which in every respect ensures a great margin for the design of university life in research and teaching. Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for the preparation, thanks also to officials in your home and also to the Ministry of Finance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to use this opportunity today to present some perspectives from a personal point of view. I wish – like a previous speaker in the field of opposition – I think it was Mr Broukal, who said – for the research institutions a multi-annual global budget. This is necessary in the same way as the universities. Firstly, the persons acting are partly identical, and secondly, this is also the absolute wish of the persons acting. So I do not defend an idea that would not fit the people acting, but I do this with thoughts and a desire, and I would like to give it the same importance as the universities. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out that in the next few years and with the next budgets there will be no change as to the level and, of course, the contributions in the form of university billions will be equal to 72.7 million, the universities will remain full. 2004 – particularly gratifying, and this can be seen as an absolute budget increase – so the study contributions remain fully at the university's disposal. This is a profit, in terms of money and planning security. One more word on Mr Grünewald's comments. You didn't give the universities a good service when you compared them to sick patients. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] – Okay, you haven’t excluded the research at the universities, and if universities see more and more as research institutions, you also meant it. I do not agree with your diagnosis. These are clients who may need some input in terms of wellness and fitness, of illness is not a talk. I mean, I also know as a non-medicine that when it comes to motivation and positive reinforcement, you have to face patients with mutilation and illness, in your case or image. So motivating can't be achieved through sick speech. I think that should also apply to university and research. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One of my views, which I consider necessary, is still mentioned in terms of research and research offensive, for example in the field of stem cell research. We are faced with a moratorium at European level, i.e. at this break we have to consider which way Austria wants to go, which way Europe wants to go. In the field of gene research, in the field of gene diagnostics, I would like an offensive answer to the problems we have started with in vitro fertilization. We have crossed the Rubikon with this in vitro fertilization – and that is what all ethics say – and now we have to give answers on the other side of the river. I think it would be good for us in the next few days to present and find answers to the problems of embryo research, embryonic stem cell research and the associated pre-implantation diagnostics. I would like the research institutions to submit applications for research. On the basis of a research application, it is then possible to say transparently and under the accompanying observation and designation of parameters and conditions under which this research should be approved, supported or promoted. According to an international model, I could also imagine more investment in specific pregnancies and adult advice, in terms of the genetic equipment of humans. The research carried out in the AKH in Vienna on mamma-carcinoma prevention is a real step, an important development. We know we can't say much exactly in gene diagnostics, but information and right to knowledge should be given to everyone. His life can then anyway shape everyone and everyone as he or she wants. Finally, because of fear of science fiction and threats, I do not think we should shut down a rational, that is, mind-oriented research and technology policy. The budget is a good basis for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8755	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. Second speech in this debate. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 10 minutes. Time left: 13 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8774	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I think the pult here is already relatively damp from the lucky tears, not from the crocodile tears, as Gehrer meant, from your lucky tears as far as patients are concerned, Mrs. Brinek. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Clients! That's a difference!]] – Clients or patients – let me talk! If you call them sick, it's not messing, because illness is not a mess. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The rectors' conference spoke of inability to pay, which might occur in autumn. That is what I call a sick budget for research and teaching, of course. Gehrer meant that this place would be saddened at the highest level. It may be, but you can also dye on a relatively low level. I don't like that either. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] If you call the universities so to speak: Finally stop the pity!, then I have to say that does not replace for me a sustainable and credible recipe for the universities. It is really difficult for me to believe, I would even say hardly tolerable if the expertise of many professionals and renowned institutions – I read it to you: Institute for Higher Studies, Economic Research Institute, Statistics Austria, ÖH, even the Austrian Research and Technology Report – is simply ignored by you. I have mentioned figures, comments and analyses from this report and from these experts and institutions, but you simply do not take note of this. And if you're still blaming universities for a long time, just because they're calculating their budget and the deficits that have occurred, then I think that's an extremely risky thing and not a collegial approach to those institutions and institutions that should ultimately protect and represent you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is just as unbearable – Mr Mitterlehner meant that I should not repeat it all the time, but that must be repeated for the population and for the universities – if Grasser has 800 million € of the staff budget, which it has always been, in his budget report only builds up from one side to the other and then says: The universities now get so much more! and it's a zero-sum game, then it's really very worrying and more than horse-sattering to use no grosser expression here. Mrs Bundesminister, you said: Let's stay honest! - I'll stay honest now. You can comment on whether I was dishonest or not. Mr Grossruck, who is now no longer here, said today that the opposition or I would be as vain as a Nobel Prizewinner or a second Goethe or something like that. To distinguish fairy tales and reality, there is no need for a second Goethe and no Nobel Laureate. That is enough for a simple Tyrolean MP who is a science speaker, but I will already bear it. To the members of the governmental parties: If you look at me as a vain case, I have to say: That's what I'm gonna do! You've been wrong more often, it wouldn't be the first time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But if Mrs. Gehrer, if Brinek, if Hakl, Großruck and Lopatka are convinced that the analyses of the Court of Auditors, the IHS, the WIFO, the ÖH, the Statistics Austria, have been prepared by FWF, the FFF, the large research institutions and funding institutions of Austria, the professor conference, the rectors' conference, the Federal Conference of Scientific Staff and the Council of Research and Technology Development of Minors appointed by her, or by using the same expression, full-cases, then only the statistical possibility that Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer and her parties are mistaken is very high. Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They talk to all professionals or at least the majority of professionals. Another thing: Mrs Brinek: They thanked all for the implementation of the 2002 UOG, which was rejected by 80 percent of those concerned. I can already allow the swivel now to note that the much-quoted industrial association has advertised for this reform on almost all-page paid ads with large photos of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, calling it a world class and otherwise. This has to be said here! Remember Grasser. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I also believe that truth and nude numbers cannot be negotiated. [[Abg. Wittauer: Something positive would also be important!]] Can I tell you something? – There are, of course, some positive things. You can list that. But you will already allow the opposition to decompose fairy tales, myths and promises. Look at this. You have sold gypsies of your reason with a hunch car – and with a big photo in the paper! Make You don't have your mouth so big here, please! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Once again, the facts that can also be read by the audience: 50 percent of additional expenditure on the budget is necessary to achieve this 2.5 percent of GDP in 2006 – by one year you have already postponed it anyway. 3 billion cumulative financial extra expenses are needed to achieve what you are constantly preaching to us as a world class – which I would like to admit. 1.2 billion would have to cover the public sector. And you're talking about 600 million € for this legislative period, cizerly divided! That's too little! Let's be honest! If you're honest, I'll tell you, I'll already be able to swallow it, that there's no more money. It is unfortunate, and I will also criticize it. But it would be fair and honest to operate with the truth, instead of worshipping down a blasphemous liturgy of painting by some ministrans and ministrants. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] You're laughing? – But it is. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: It's not like that!]] - Well, it's not like that. See how to learn You are? Lifelong learning must have stopped with you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now on planning security and on other untruths. The largest Austrian research fund has received €92 million last year. The sister organizations in Switzerland and Germany receive, if you charge it per capita of the inhabitants – which is, of course, fair, that’s what you have to say – € 120 million. That means something's missing. Today, 75 million have been committed in the budget. That's much less, that's 17 million € less! All other measures do not provide any planning certainty. They come from the National Bank and other sponsors. I am very pleased to see the money of the industrial association. But it doesn't make too much of it, I can only teach you. The fact that the FWF, as a liberal Member said, was not customer-friendly, which would be difficult to access, is simply and simply wrong. I was in the board of trustees of the FWF. Unfortunately, I know myself a little bit. That's just wrong. With the institutions which seem politically not to be facing you, because they trust themselves to say the truth, because they regret, if it is necessary and appropriate, you should consider not defaming them so quickly, but coming at your own door. We Greens have always demanded: the research competences into one hand! You'd have been right. We were even with you. And what happened? – The Court of Auditors criticises... [[Abg. Wittauer: The diffamation policy is yours!]] - You're always right. Follow your private announcements further and drive away Gypsies with your jauchenwagen. That's all right. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So bundle the skills in your department! There you failed! There is the Council for Research and Technology Development appointed by Mrs Minister, and I have figures in this regard. What's up? – I read it to you: The risk capital market for applied economic research is so thin in Austria: 0.075 percent of gross domestic product. This puts Austria in the final place of the EU! How should the economy be stimulated to run research innovation, to employ researchers as well? Finally, within the EU! That's not a pity, these are truths! Look at that. I notice that you're already a little different. Women's promotion is also insufficient! Too few women in research! Career opportunities are criticized. These are weak because of your service right, through temporary contracts, and it also complains of the president of the Austrian Research Fund that best people from his institute in Innsbruck move to the pharmaceutical industry that good people who have worked in the most internationally renowned university institutes in Australia and the USA no longer want to return to Austria. That's the truth! Doctorate programmes are requested. However, doctoral programs mean studying longer, paying longer tuition fees. That's what it means! A study on the situation of students was recently published. By far, the study fees do not look as rosy as they were presented today. Last but not least, Mrs Brinek: As a doctor, I'm quite optimistic. You may not know any patients from me. I've always had a maxim: For a good relationship with clients or patients is... [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's the difference!]] – Look, you've never treated anyone before, and I don't know your research and innovation at the university either. – But for good clients... – [[New call of the abg. Dr. Brinek.]] That's not last-class! The University of Vienna has even resigned because of partiality, I just say. I'm just saying that when someone takes his mouth so full and does it. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You are a pre-potent ignorant!]] In order to establish a good client relationship, the truth needs to be on the bed. They will also be able to bear you, Mrs Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8951	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann. This is also your second speech in this debate. You wanted 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8969	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Professor Grünewald! Where is he? - There he is! – I was also at the university for some time, and for me again the rules I have learned at the university, namely two rules: Section number one: The professor is always right. Paragraph number two: Even if he is not right, paragraph number one enters into force. And then you act! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] He didn't hear it? - It's a shame! All right, Mr. Professor. You regret – and this is the truth that you have just said about the pult – because that is your opinion of opposition. You said that yourself. You said it was your job to see only the bad. That's why you've got to be sick of everything here. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I didn't say that was the task!]] That's your opinion of opposition! That's the truth you just said. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I said there was also good!]] It's good you finally said it. But you don't talk about the good. They're just talking about the bad one, and they're kidding the whole system sick. You do not do anything good in your own stand, and you do nothing good for universities, because they have to be competitive in the European comparison. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I'm asking for this!]] You don't do anything good for the universities. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we are already distinguishing fairy tales and reality, then the computer you are setting up will not help anything – and not remind us of “Modern Times”, for he also has only the numbers you feed him in. If you don't feed the numbers of the ministry, but your own, then between the fairy tale and reality will lie your own reality, which is now different. It does nothing if you use wrong data, numbers and facts to better represent the things you want to say. [[Abg. Broukal: Tell me your numbers!]] If Mr. Grünewald says... [[Abg. Broukal: Tell me your numbers!]] – I have said this before in my speech. I'm not going to repeat this now, you can read it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Listen and then talk!]] So again for colleagues Broukal: We have special funds of € 600 million for research and development. [[Abg. Broukal: Maybe!]] – Not “perhaps”. You'll see it's being implemented. The two FFF and FWF funds each have € 28.8 million more. These are figures, facts and figures. Food If you insert these into your computer, then you will see that you have the right numbers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Grünewald said that he was also helping some institutions. That is why I am telling you about a conversation that I have held with representatives of these institutions, who have now led you – who are also sick and who, in your opinion, are right. It is a conversation with leading gentlemen from a fund, and I asked them what they are doing to get more EU funding for research funding. The gentlemen ask me: For what? – We do not need EU funding. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Which fund?]] It is far more important that we do something in Austria to get through with our own resources. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Which fund?]] That's mentality. We only need the funds and resources made available to us by the State of Austria, and we do not need to seek anything else. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Which fund?]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That's not true! Which fund?]] You weren't there at the conversation. I was amazed at bass and I thought of how it is. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Which fund?]] I don't want to discredit the gentlemen. I personally told them that I do not think it is right that they do not think they have to pick up EU funding. That's the wrong way if all the funds think they can only congratulate those funds that sponsor the ministry. This is simply too little in European competition! This is simply too little for the EU and European competition. That's not enough. That is why these gentlemen are sorry, and that is why they are sorry. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Do you know how much money we get from the EU?]] That's the point. These people are also invited to face up to international competition, to adapt to these things and to develop new ideas on how to get money. You can't always say the state is financing and doing everything for me. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now on the study contributions you have attracted: You just have to note that this federal government is reacting to some criticism, and that is why there is now – and this is also stated in the report – the tax deductibility of study fees for professionals, because for these there was a real problem. The government immediately responded and introduced the tax deductibility of the study contributions for students who are employed. And you should also recognize this: If there are problems, it will be changed and it will be improved. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: For 3,000 students, 200 000 are available!]] Professor and colleagues from the SPÖ! Let us confess to this common objective of achieving 2.5% of GDP. If we do not even have a goal, as the government did earlier, then we will not be able to achieve it either. But if we have a goal, then we can do and do the best we can to achieve this goal. You're still invited to help you, and don't be sick of everything.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9221	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9242	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to express my thanks to you for the appeal that you made in our direction here in the House a few minutes ago, which was that you should seriously deal with the matter before you put incorrect claims into the world. I think you're right. In my view, this appeal has been directed primarily against Mr Amon. Deputies! Amon, in your contribution to the debate, you said there were no students in the first and second performance groups in the main schools in Vienna. [[Abg. Amon: I didn't say that!]] I heard it like that. This claim is not correct! – It is true that in the main schools of Vienna, of course, attention is given to groups of services, and therefore the question arises: Why do you claim such a thing? – Either you don’t know what you’re talking about, or you just want to do a little bad again like many others in Vienna. I think that is not fair and serious, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would also like to use my speaking time to expressly thank all dedicated teachers in our country on behalf of the Socialist Group for their not always easy work. I believe that if we are discussing the budget and the future, then we should be grateful for the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The teaching budget is part of the total budget. Each department and each minister also has overall responsibility. Allow me to point out once again that last week we decided on a pension reform, in view of which most of the population was said, up to 65 years, so working longer is important, then you get the pension. There has, of course, been no time to point out that there is, among other things, a group, namely the teachers, who can already retire at the age of 55 – but with cancellations, that is right. [[Abg. Amon: 56,5 years!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This rule, as far as I am informed, continues for many years, and we come to the situation that the one group that receives the message from the government, up to 65 years you have to work against the other group that is said, of course, you may go earlier. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] I would like to point out and think that in the future there will be a great responsibility to ensure the harmonisation of pension systems that we can count on and work for everyone in the same way. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What do you want?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have deliberately mentioned the question of harmonisation in this context, because I believe it is unfair to say that you can go earlier because we also need a place for young people, and for the other population, for example in the private sector, this argument should not apply. It is measured by two measures. And I wanted to point out that this does not actually fulfil the right to responsibility and justice which you, as the Federal Government, always put in the foreground. I would also have liked to have heard your position, Mrs Federal Minister, on this subject. In this context, we experience in some schools a flight to the pension of 55-year-old teachers, and this also involves a quality problem in some schools. If you do not see this, you have the opportunity to address it here, Mrs Federal Minister. Finally, I would like to underline the criticism of many – and it has also been voiced here by previous speakers of my group – that: Education is not a focus, but a weakness of this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9323	The next speaker was Mrs Wolfmayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9341	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, under great effort, we have made the start of the rightfulness of the museums. Now these museums are working, they prove themselves on the market, and they are also suing considerable additional revenue available for this area. At the same time, their basic remuneration is secured. In short, the figures: The cultural budget is € 144 226,000 this year, € 149 442,000 in 2002, and € 147,471 000 in 2004. The budget thus has a minus of 3.49 percent compared to the previous year's result. So that of you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, the 12 percent-coported minus is not right. In 2004, it will even return to an increase of 2.25 percent. Considering the enormous achievements and expenses of recent years, it is right and proper to say that this is a respectable budget, a good budget adapted to the needs of our Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The focus in the museum In view of a budget intended to secure more than investment at the given time, the area lies in the restoration and conservation of museum objects of supraregional importance, inventory, measures to safeguard them, when using new media for the purpose of archiving, presentation and mediation and electronic access. According to the major construction projects completed, such as MuseumsQuartier, Technical Museum, Albertina is now the priority of securing the present. A few words about the library area, which is very important to me personally: There is also an important technical upgrade to be involved in the Austrian Library Association and to have a common standard. Networking, the same systems, the corresponding hardware, all this is done and also works very well. [[Abg. Eder: Take a look at a modern one in Vienna!]] The training of full-time and voluntary librarians is also essential. Similar to the monument protection: Priorities are set according to urgency, so first of all are preservation, restoration and renovation. Now a comment on the situation in the Styria: Together with the "Verein Musis", the Museum Forum Joanneum is very committed to the preservation and storage of valuable cultural assets and is also very resourceful and creative in the exploration of the most cost-effective depots in which the collected objects can be kept safe and protected. The field of inventory and digitization is equally important for them, so that a large and well-ordered reservoir can be accessed quickly and unproblematically for hiking and exchange exhibitions. Last but not least, a beautiful, up-to-date example: Recently, the “most contrasting private museum of Austria” was opened in the Benedictine Stift Admont, including the library and the museum, a unique mixture between Baroque monastery library and manuscript collection, art and natural history museum, a museum of contemporary art with multimedia presentation, with special exhibitions, a museum shop, innovative and very much visited for a few weeks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, I can only say: Ladies and gentlemen! These are our museums, so they work – and modern museum practice cost-effectively and efficiently – that is our common goal in the federal government and in the countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9390	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9408	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to talk about the cultural budget and, above all, look at the fact that we have massive budget cuts in this area, which is a minus of 12.16 percent for 2003. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's just not true!]] In 2004, the budget increases slightly again, but still stands at 10 percent below the 2002 figure. On the one hand, there are the distributed institutions of federal museums and National Library, which are covered in which these cuts are not felt. However, these cuts will be staggering in very important other areas, namely in the field of everyday culture with minus 10 percent, adult education with minus 15 percent and also in the area of the Bundesdenkmalamt. I find this very unfortunate, because these are areas in which cultural policy, general cultural awareness and education meet. And saving in this The area is actually in conflict with what should also be very important from the point of view of the ÖVP, namely education and mediation. Books will suffer – this is very dramatic – because, according to the Minister's statement, they are now increasingly financially supported by the countries. We know, however, that there is no additional provision for books in the countries. This means that daily reading, everyday culture and, in principle, reading for young people will be reduced. This is particularly a pity because we have experienced a dramatic breakdown in reading behavior as far as young people are concerned. Young people read much less than the generation before them. And closing the books is simply the wrong signal in this situation. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Shortening daily culture and mediation is the wrong way. However, there is also another area that is critical, which needs to be discussed, which is the whole area of the Federal Museums. Not only did we have a scandal by stealing the salt barrel in the Art History Museum, but we have also reached a point in terms of the overall picture of the Austrian and Vienna museum landscape that we need to have a comprehensive discussion about how this landscape becomes more manageable, so that we do not compete with each other to the death, that the legal orders of the collection facilities are not neglected and all meet on a market, namely on an art exhibition market and do something that is not their task. In this context, the Albertina must be mentioned in particular. Klaus Albrecht Schröder has begun to give Vienna a world museum, but the task is another, he has expanded the Albertina concept relatively popular. He has put in the background the ancient graphic collection and what is actually the legal order and is now making generous exchange exhibitions. Munch screamed picturesqueally at the opening, and soon the masses followed the signal, writing the “standard” very plausible, and that also describes very precisely the problem. We now have a wealth of houses with a wealth of exhibition spaces that compete each other. It even goes so far that the graphic collection, the study hall is no longer accessible and that sentences like: Of course, this is only extra effort for the few hundred study hall visitors, which does not make the herb fat, one has to put its focus on the exhibition area. – This is clear against the legal order. As far as the competitive situation between the museums is concerned, a very serious situation has also arisen, because it is only around exhibition space, around more gold exhibitions, around everything that attracts mass culture, that creates a competition and neglects the true collection, the preservation and the accessibility, also the scientific accessibility of such facilities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Minister, you have not yet responded to it, or have you taken the view that it is not necessary to intervene in it and make a museum concept. I mean, that's very urgent. We are now experiencing the negative effects of a breakdown, a commercialization, a partial privatisation as well as the federal museums, precisely with the success that the classic, the original mission is no longer fulfilled. You have to intervene in order. That is why we have proposed – and that is what we have put in the negotiations with the ÖVP – that you make a museum study, a museum concept, so that the original tasks do not fall under the table. Mrs. Minister, you have now commissioned something like that. I'm very excited about the result. However, I hope that in the end not only the argument you have always brought will prevail, namely that it does not need an orderly hand, because, on the contrary, it needs an orderly hand. Culture and cultural policy need politics, also need decisions, and especially in this unmistakable landscape, which has opened up there, a cultural vision and a cultural policy concept, so that the wealth and treasures that can be seen above all in Vienna do not only exist in the depths and cellars, but that the original mission remains preserved. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would ask you to take this seriously and to work with the masters who run these museums in a constructive way in such a way that for the general public, the original mission of the museums is once again guaranteed for the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9467	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. This is the second speech in today's debate. Please, honourable Member. [[At the speaker's desk, the red lamb shines.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: (stirring) Does the red apply to me?]] - No, no.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9527	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Education, science and culture are certainly a very important area. I have to say that I am a little sad at the fact that one side of this House has so far only approached this subject complex with pity, but we want to find another access to it. Let us first take the field of education and training. This is certainly one of the most central issues in our daily life. After all, this is the future of our children and thus, ladies and gentlemen, the future of ourselves. I think that deserves the greatest attention. I am now allowed to speak on my own, as I am also a young family father, have two children and one of my children comes to school next year. I would like to make a little criticism because I believe that the pressure of performance in today's times is perhaps too great. Let's be honest. Everyone here who also has children of this age will give me the right. Where does it start? – There are already English courses in Kindergarten on Monday. On Tuesday children's tournaments are announced, on Wednesday is music school. Every day, I believe, the children are already called upon beyond their actual capacity. I think they have too little time – too little time for personal development, too little time to play and therefore too little time for themselves. In folk school this continues, there is enormous pressure to do so. I have recently experienced that there are lists in the first class of folk school, which are published in which the ranking of the individual students is presented, who is the best who is the worst. I do not think this is very good, I think it is worrying in certain areas. I mean, pressure's all right. Achieving performance is very important, but I am convinced – and I would like to say this again – that: Children should have time to play, children should have time for their friends, children should have time for their lives – and now and then, too, to be bad. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] - I've had enough time, right. That's why I'm so awake today. But – that should also be said in the direction of the opposition colleagues –: It's really not the place to be sorry. I do not think it can do well to be saddened and insulted here in the case of some of the justified criticism. This cannot be conducive to us and our state. Subjectual criticism is appropriate – for that I am – but constantly to talk stupidly, I really can't do that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In this context, I would also like to address a subject which is too little attention here, namely schooling in rural areas. Let's take the Carinthian country again! There are branched valleys, there are small schools everywhere, in the remotest regions we find really small schools. I mean, it's important that these schools are preserved. I think it is particularly important that children between the ages of six and ten do not have to be carried miles away with buses to their training facilities. To obtain these schools would be a positive access for the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Second part of my speech, a few sentences on culture. What is culture? – I chose the definition out of the dud, so as not to quote it wrong. There are a lot of entrances: ‘Culture is the rootstock of the soil’, ‘Culture is the artificial establishment of a forest stock’. – All of this is access to culture, but... – The agricultural culture, the most important culture, right, Mr Oillinger, good that you recognize it once. [[Abg. Oillinger: Which vintage anniversary is this?]] But: “Culture is the totality of the expression of life of human society in language, religion, science, art and others.” That, ladies and gentlemen, we should keep in mind. There is not only high culture, there is also folk culture. People's culture also deserves to be mentioned here. There are not only museums, there are not only any agglomerations and metropolises where culture takes place. Culture takes place outside: Culture takes place in the regions, in the countries, in the valleys. I believe that this should be mentioned positively here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] Let's be honest: The importance of this folk culture is great for the country, for the region, for the valleys. This culture strengthens identities, this culture seeks an open encounter with the citizens. [[Abg. Oillinger: What do you mean?]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What about the unculture?]] A pure elitist culture, as we sometimes find it, in which the evening seal counts more than the content, cannot be the access to our future. That's too little, I can tell you! We'll probably be on a bad path to the future. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Lead Lei!]] Finally, since I am not allowed to speak a third time today, I still need to address a quote from Mr Broukal. - Yeah, he's here, he's just hiding behind his laptop. Mr Broukal, you have spoken about a Fata Morgana in the course of today's debate. They have said: far from promising, near then disappointing. – I can imagine where you have this quote: probably from your own ranks! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9662	The next speaker is Mr Faul. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9681	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For me, colleague Scheuch is really the living example of the fact that someone who has once entered school is also presumptuous about understanding something from school. He may have been at the concert of Minister Grasser in black evening seal; he confused the cultural concept with the evening seal. So this is an access, I have to say. But in theory, Mr Scheuch, have I'm sure you're missing in school. I'd like to say that clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs. Minister! I would like to say one thing: Today you have talked about the Federal Services for the Schools, but you would have to say fairly that you can only speak there for the higher education schools and for the higher schools in general. If you're talking about your performance for primary schools, Mrs. Minister, then you're gonna hang around something that's not right. [[Abg. Amon: And the personnel costs?]] They are talking about the services of the municipalities, the mayors, who are very concerned about the primary schools and the preservation of primary schools. [[Federal Minister Gehrer: I did that too!]] Mrs. Minister! If you want to talk to us about the problems of primary school, as we often do about the SPÖ, then please refer quite lapidar – you have done this again today – to the agreement of the Minister of Finance with the countries, to the financial compensation. In this context, you are not interested in anything at all. You're making it very easy, Mrs. Minister. The financial hostage in which you have taken your Noch-Finanzminister to simply hang around the countries is not the last conclusion of wisdom. The problems of schools and primary schools have suddenly become problems of the countries. It is very different and depending on the national councils, especially on the national school councils, whether these schools in the federal states are better or – as we see recently – worse. From this point of view, Mrs Minister, I would say: Give the responsibilities for compulsory schools to the countries at all, because by closing the departments for compulsory schools in your ministry you can certainly save a lot of money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grossruck: But there is no emergency in training!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] A second problem is that national governments are able to distribute and pass on these funds. In the past, the national school councils themselves were solely responsible for the forwarding of laws, regulations and ultimately also for the ideas in school development, as you have stated in your ministry for them. In this direction nothing comes from you, therefore the development in primary and secondary schools in the countries is still in this direction too. Madam Minister, unfortunately the time is not enough to make a lot of proposals to you, but let me give you a thought: In contrast to Austria, where the family budget is used 90 percent for direct payments – I even say: exploited; these are direct payments like family money – Norwegians, Finns and Sweden use only 40 to 50 percent for these direct payments. Most of them go to children's and family facilities, all day kindergartens, all day schools and afternoon care, which really relieve families and make parents flexible on the labour market. Take an example of this, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9756	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. Desirable 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9774	Mr President. Minister! High house! In my remarks, I would like to refer primarily to the positive effects, especially on school and working conditions. Based on the performance requirements for a young person, it is perfectly right that English should be preserved as an independent subject in folk school and not affected by the hourly relief regulation. This measure is the right step towards Europe, because Europe and the communication that takes place here among the people will play a much more important role for today's youth. English is developing into the world's language, especially when a language is still playful to learn, it is essential to acquire languages as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: How was French? Shorten French!]] If Austria wants to expand its international competitiveness, English as well as our mother tongue must be dominated by German – but also across all social and educational classes, from apprentices to university graduates. A second point is the school partnership. Austria has a leading position in Europe in its student, parent and teacher participation. I have already called for the introduction of the Federal School Community Committee, i.e. the School Partnership for Students, Teachers and Parents at the federal level, in my active time as a student representative, and I was able to implement this in a smaller form in my federal state of Burgenland as part of a national school community committee. The idea is quite simple, namely that problems can be dealt with on-the-spot and can also be designed by those involved in everyday school life. The increase in funding for the school partnership is unique in Europe, as already mentioned. The partnership and friendly handling of schools is thus greatly encouraged. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Another point: 99 percent of Austrian schools are on the network. [[Abg. Oillinger: At the limit, not on the net!]] This guarantees good and responsible handling of the new media today. There is only one small problem here, namely that teachers will have to act much more than knowledge coaches in the future, and there will be no school referendums in such a way that students will print out documents on the Internet and then deliver them. Teachers gain knowledge coach and qualitative knowledge with the help of the Internet, which is on the agenda here. [[Abg. Oil: Where? Which schools?]] Let me mention, as the last point, the fight against illiteracy! The European target formulation is clear and forward-looking. The reduction of illiteracy in Europe makes us economically competitive, so the “readfit” action is also excellent to combat illiteracy at an early stage. Summary: The budget in the field of education does not only consist of naked figures, but clearly shows the improvements for everyday school life.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9849	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9868	Mr President. High house! The empty government bank behind me is a symbol...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9883	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Federal Minister has been following our deliberations for several hours now and wanted to go and wash her hands; she will come back soon.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9898	This is very bad because I wanted to address the issue of adult education, and the Minister of Education sued the fact that very good conditions were created, but at a very high level there would be pity. [[Abg. Grillisch: That's right!]] Mrs. Minister! There is no need to lament, here you have to demand and criticize, and unfortunately this at not at all high level. - That's right, yes. [[Call: That's right.]] It is true that Austria is sparse in adult education; you know that just as well as we do. This is a matter of bringing about substantial deficits. [[Federal Minister Gehrer returns to the government bank.]] - I'm glad, Mrs. Minister. . I am talking about adult education and the massive deficits that we regret in this area in Austria. You know and we know that an urgent plan for lifelong learning would be presented in Austria. This has not yet been done. This has already been criticised by the EU Commission because Austria has failed to fulfil this task. It is about defining qualitative and quantitative criteria for adult education. As always, I have looked at your government programme on this point. There is nothing about this area of lifelong learning that would indicate a plan for this whole area. There are four detailed points, but nothing that points to the overall plan. One important question is also: How should funding be ensured in this area? – Lifelong Learning is an area that needs to be expanded more and more and more. And what are you doing? – Instead of investing more strongly, reduce funding in the field of adult education! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They reduce, for example, the staffing of the pedagogical staff. In the last five years, there has been a reduction of minus 25 percent alone. Imagine if You would do that in other areas! In a central education area, you simply cut by 25 percent! The trend is also to promote only projects, rather than also to promote institutions. The result is that employees must spend a large part of their working time doing projects at all, finding subsidies and completing applications rather than providing educational work. This is not the development of adult education that we need, Mrs Minister. We need a good funding of the institutions as such, which is then extended in addition to project funding – but not through a single project funding, which ultimately leaves the institutions in the rain. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have the impression that you do not consider the importance of education as a national asset to the extent that it deserves it. In this respect, there are calculations that education can be seen as a national asset in factor 1 : 3 on property. In other words, education is one of the greatest values that we can save in Austria, so to speak, when it comes to the future development of the country. In the field of adult education, voluntary work continues to have a very high priority, which is often praised in any speeches, but where it is so that it is not aware that it is also costing money and in the field of voluntary work to be made according to budgetary provision. Honorary work means that the people who work volunteering must be accompanied, must be advised, partly led, that they need further training, that they need supervision. Only with such basics can volunteer work continue to work positively and run well. Here, too, the direction is, unfortunately, that one says it's only about purely organizational work, but one completely forgets in this calculation that honor simply means a very high effort in the area of “care” – under quotation marks – the volunteer doer. Mrs. Minister! In addition to schools and universities, further training needs to become an equal educational position in Austria. It must not continue to be neglected, as it is at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9975	Mr Walch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9994	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think just polemizing educationally is the right way. This will not lead to any success in Austria. To make changes, one must be willing to reform. I already admit that in the last decade, perhaps not as much as you would have imagined, but if you are prepared to do something together for the future of youth and to take appropriate measures in education, then this will also benefit young people and older workers on the labour market, for it is lifelong learning. In the private sector, it is also common for you to constantly learn to continue your education, otherwise you will soon have no work. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is therefore also important, and I am pleased to note, that in general higher schools, the funds for continuing training measures were increased from € 1 million to € 1.048 000 million in the previous year and € 1.056 000 million in higher education. That is, as I said, very important. It is also very important that, through further education and training, an up-to-date assessment is carried out especially in those professional groups where there is a shortage of skilled workers. This applies in particular to the construction workers, to the professional group from which I come, to the masons. That is what we are talking about “golden craftsmanship”, but so that this is really the case, we are all called for, both the economy and our politicians. We must ensure that there is a training there that gives you the opportunity to go on the labour market and get a better wage. I think that's an important thing. It is also very important to rethink at school. It is necessary to align the teaching contents in such a way that they are adapted to the changes in the individual professional sectors. However, changes are also necessary for the professionals. Changes are particularly important in teaching professions. We have introduced a rotational teaching in Upper Austria, where several professions, for example window builder – colleague, you can talk afterwards! – Maurer, Rooms are taught as part of a training course. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederweiser]] One learns several occupations in one and one can, if, for example, one becomes unemployed as a window builder, as well as masons or carpenters. In Upper Austria, the additional 2 400 young people have been taught. I believe that this is very important to address the problem of the shortage of skilled workers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that we are on the right track in the field of education. We must continue to adapt training needs to the labour market. Money must not play a role in continuing training, as it is necessary to make a lot of money available, as that ensures jobs. – Thank you
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10054	The next honourable Member is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10072	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Max Walch, I agree with your sentence: Money must not play a role in continuing training! But you are in the government, and I think Mrs. Federal Minister will certainly be happy to follow this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am not trying to cry here, not to shed crocodile tears, but I will give you, Mrs. Federal Minister, a very simple report on a compulsory school – “only” a primary school, Mr. Amon! – how this school feels about your budget cuts. You can think I'm talking about the primary school in my home town – a primary school, with very dedicated teachers and with students I heard about that school is still making them happy. This primary school has developed its own school profile in recent years and made its own priorities. This was possible because of the autonomy granted to her. In this school, one has autonomously reduced six compulsory hours and has set up as a priority rather than a suitable choice of duties. The focus was on languages, technology and computer – however, without seeing even a cent or, earlier, a schilling of the famous technology billions. You can't see that at the compulsory schools. In the second years, this new form of education, this new form of school, has been introduced, and now comes Her approval with the hourly cuts, Mrs. Minister. At this school one is now no longer able to take hours away, one is now no longer able to continue due to your hourly cuts of this model. The whole work of recent years has been in vain, dear Mrs. Federal Minister. The school has also told you this in a letter. It's perfectly clear to me that you can't answer everything yourself, let you answer. They answered the concerns of teachers, students and parents as follows – I may quote this literally –: You mentioned in your letter a number of very important considerations that we will include in our letter. The further development of the primary schools, which were created especially in the framework of autonomy, is essential and extremely important and is a qualitative contribution to strengthening the Austrian educational landscape. Especially your school, the primary school of Schwerberg, shows new perspectives of a pedagogical path. - Quote. Do you know what the teachers said to me? – We are not mocked by the Federal Minister! That was the statement on this letter, in which you have not in any way taken into account what measures, what reductions, which misrepresentations this primary school has to take now due to the reduction of hours. This is just an example of the many primary schools that do excellent work. Mr Amon, on your comment that SPÖ would like to abolish the primary schools: I am not going to go to the level of Mr. Scheuch, who spoke of ‘foolishness’, but I say to you: Either it's malicious from you, or you really don't know yourself! The primary schools deserve all our support and support! That's what I'm telling you, and I'd advise you to finally attend a high school.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10140	Mr Gaßner! You have absolutely right with your comment on the statement “Blessness” and I also have on the suggestion of Caspar A conversation was held with Mr Scheuch. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Brader. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10161	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said that our education system is one of the best in Europe, and this is also demonstrated by many studies. I know, Mr Niederweiser, that comparative studies are always a bit problematic and are not always comparable, but we can be a little proud already in our schools. I would just like to say that this will certainly remain the case despite savings measures. I would like to thank all my colleagues very much for the work done, and I would also like to thank those responsible for education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A good education system, such as ours, is characterized by good schools, which take account of the needs of children and in which a process of education takes place, which creates the basis for a successful life. The recognition of a child's unique needs faces a particular challenge in the education process of children with special needs. Unfortunately, the pedagogical discussion sometimes goes in the wrong direction. The question of whether children with disabilities should be cared for in inclusive or in special educational centres is secondary. The primary question must always be: How and where can best be helped in the formation of a child with special needs? In recognition of this question, ladies and gentlemen, of course, there must be an option in the education system. This budget allows this option, and I therefore agree with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A very different area is the field of vocational education. The hopes we have placed in high school have been fully fulfilled. Currently, about 18,000 students are studying in over 120 courses. 7,000 have already completed vocational education, 7 000 of these studies begin each year, and 40 percent of them are female, and this makes me very proud as a father of three daughters. I would also like to congratulate the responsible and wish the high school industry all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10213	Mrs. Gehrer, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke in turn. – I ask for your words, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10232	Mr President. High house! Mr Gaßner's speech has been given to me. It has shown how false information is really insecured in the compulsory schools. There are several responsibilities: The total service posts are allocated to the countries, according to the proportion of the financial compensation. We could just as well have left the 127 hours in the primary schools as it was, because they are covered. Out of this possibility to use more hours of free use, Lower Austria has even made its own project. The project “120 Plus” was created for the primary school: 120 basic hours, at least plus 7 hours in addition, because they are already covered, and in addition, the possibilities that have existed so far. I really think it's sad when you try to make compulsory schools know that through some hourly cuts I'm reducing the chances of schools. The service posts shall be assigned exactly according to the agreement. There is no less than one service post – no matter if 120 or 127 hours are required at primary school. There are now 120 hours of duty, and at least seven hours can also be made as additional offers for everything you mentioned. I find it very sad that this is being misinformed, and I would like to talk to you afterwards, because this uncertainty must stop at our primary schools! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have already given a presentation of the further development of the universities. For me, it is very pleasing that the University Law 2002 is implemented in a targeted way. I thank everyone who works with it. But we have also broken our heads very strongly over the budget. We have worked very hard on this, because on the one hand we have to deal with the taxpayers responsiblely, but on the other hand we have to ensure that innovations are possible. Therefore, I do not agree to admit that the 2003 educational budget framework is a little closer, but I can say that numerous opportunities have been created to ensure teaching, research and projects. I have created the following possibilities with my responsible employees who have been very busy with this: First: This year, the total budget of the universities is already being given as a global budget. The universities do not have to comply with the prescribed divisions. Secondly, The universities can resolve a deposit of € 28 million from the Ministry of Finance this year. That's good! We agreed with the Minister for Finance. This is a success, because just as well the Minister of Finance could keep this money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, The universities also have €30 million in reserves from the research funds they have received. The universities also have the opportunity to contribute forward-looking projects in the field of research and innovation. Fourth: I made a commitment to use: In September, we will look very closely at what has happened to additional implementation costs, and I will use the Minister of Finance to cover actual additional implementation costs with a supplementary budget. The education budget 2004 is a very good budget – a budget where there is no 3-percent reduction, where there is no 1-percent discount, with 15 million € for implementation measures alone. I believe that it is reasonable for the managers of our universities, like the rectors, to make their overall planning by the end of 2004, to highlight the teaching opportunities for the students, to guarantee this in the autumn and to make their plans with investments by 2004. I expect this from forward-looking rectors at future-oriented universities!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10320	Mrs. Federal Minister, you still have a remaining speaking time of 4.5 minutes. Just for your information! Mr Amon is speaking on a point of order. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure: The statement of the facts to be corrected and the comparison of the right facts, no political value judgments, and all of this in 2 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10344	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Gaßner claimed that there would be no one in the SPÖ who would stand for the abolition of the primary schools. I'm actually correcting and quoting for evidence from an APA report of 5. June this year, where the president of the Vienna City School Council, Dr. Brandsteidl, which, as far as I know, is still to be attributed to SPÖ and is in fact one of the most important SPÖ education politicians, is quoted as follows: “The Vienna City School Council President Susanne Brandsteidl is speaking out for the comprehensive introduction of school forms all day long. Thus, schoolchildren should press the school bench from Monday to Friday even in the afternoon, there would be no lessons on Saturdays. It is not foreseen that a separation in primary and lower secondary schools will occur after primary school." That means the abolition of the primary school!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10378	Mr Wittauer has also referred to an actual correction. The same rules apply to you, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10399	Mr Grünewald has said – I quote – that: “You have sold gypsies of your reason with a jauche car – and with a big photo in the paper.” – That’s unfair! It is true that a group of 50 Roma with 20 residential weights illegally occupied and devastated my agricultural area and hindered me from carrying out my biological manure. However, the expected smell of my biological dirt prompted her to leave the illegally occupied land within an hour.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10434	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10454	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Minister! Her colleague, Mrs Frauenminister Rauch-Kallat, has not grown tired in the last few days here in the House and in recent weeks also in various discussions to complain about the fact that in women and girls, when they opt for a job, three classic women's professions still make up about three-quarters of the professional decisions. This, of course, is not just a question of what is being transported in schools, in education to role models, but especially education has an important part to play. I would therefore like to ask you, Mrs Education Minister: What measures have been taken She has already set or planned to reduce the gender role ideas still given in the Austrian schools and to contribute to equal treatment for girls and boys, and also to achieve that girls attract a wider spectrum in their career choice. I believe that an important measure for this would certainly be to start with the teacher, with the teachers themselves and to continue to train them in terms of gender perceptiveness. Let me tell you a little example. I have had discussions with some of the teachers who said of themselves to pay very special attention to the same treatment of girls and boys, and who have voluntarily undergone self-testing and have conducted stricherlists about how often they take girls and how often they take boys in class and give them attention. To her own surprise, these teachers have found that, depending on the subject of teaching, the boys have received up to a third more often the attention of the teacher. They were quite shocked at what had come out of this self-test. Therefore, I believe that it would be important not to leave it up to teachers to make self-tests on their own initiative, but to help them with targeted instruments and with assistance to contribute to gender equality in teaching. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that it would be important, especially in the field of compulsory schooling, but also in the upper levels, to return to a measure which was already in place in previous years and which has achieved excellent results. There were self-confidence trainings for girls under the former Minister of Women, Dohnal, if I remember correctly. I think it is very important for girls in puberty, in a society that is very common to them, we say, at least difficult role model, to ensure that they are equipped with appropriate self-confidence at this sensitive stage of development, and that it is very important to motivate them to become self-confidence in untypical subjects, in untypical professional sectors and to conquer untypical areas for themselves. I therefore ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to offer these self-confidence trainings to girls as widely as possible. Let me now get away from the compulsory school and school life to the universities. Honestly, I just have a simple question: How can it be, Mrs. Minister, that at least half of all students are women, that female study success is nothing worse than men – on the contrary: the average is sometimes better – and we still find mainly male professors at universities? Do you explain this to me, please, and tell me what you want to do about it and will do it? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Here you should read the research results!]] Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his You will not want to explain to me that the research results have proved that the women in Austria would be unable to be university professors. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I therefore urge you to raise not only the academic rate, but also, above all, the quota of professors and women in scientific research in Austria in all areas, not only in social sciences! Or to formulate it salopp: If I look at so many ways of scientific work and teaching and teaching in Austria, I would have to say: Learn history, the story consisted not only of the achievements of men!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10516	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. 5 minutes' speaking time; it is your second speech, Mrs Deputies. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10534	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Broukal, you're here? - Yes. It is not a strange world when I speak today of successful educational institutions, namely the vocational colleges. The Austrian high school sector is booming, the andrang of the applicants is constantly rising. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Although the FPÖ was always against it!]] The concept of this post-secondary training has been completely increased because the education offer corresponds to the wishes of the students and – which is no less important – also to the needs of the economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The professional opportunities for graduates of the vocational colleges are excellent. There is usually a seamless transition of graduates to the economy. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That's not how it is anymore!]] In 2002/2003 there were over 18 000 students in 124 courses at 30 locations. The 21,000 courses planned for the 2004/2005 study year will certainly be reached earlier. In contrast to the universities, the funding of the technical universities is subject to study, and for the first time in the education sector, in addition to the federal government, countries, municipalities and interest groups act as beneficiaries. In 2002, €92 million was allocated by the federal government to the colleges. This value will certainly still increase, as the number of students is increasing. The budgets for 2003 and 2004 already provide € 107 million for the technical universities. In order to keep professional universities competitive, it is very important that they also conduct research and development. There is a very special programme of the BMVIT and the BMBWK, namely the FH-plus programme, for which €11 million are available, which aims to promote the development of research infrastructure and the implementation of cooperation projects with the economy. This brings real opportunities, opportunities for students to get practical training at the highest level and opportunities for SMEs, for really small businesses that have the opportunity to outsource cost-intensive research. This creates new impetus for the economy, increasing competitiveness, as new products and new services are created by these research agencies. This is indeed a technology policy of ÖVP and FPÖ for smaller businesses and not a Fata Morgana, as Mr Broukal said this morning! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The FH-plus programme triggers an additional increase in research and development expenditure and additional expenditure in the private and public sectors. It also contributes to the overall objective of raising the research rate, which, as we have heard today, should be increased to 2.5 percent of GDP in 2006. In the tertiary education sector, the colleges are in a field of tension between competition with universities and competition in the international environment, wherever they have to exist, and they have to implement the Bologna process, which means that the courses are designed in a two-member way, in a Baccalaureate and a Master's degree. Especially with this in mind, it will certainly be important that the question of the location of new high-school studies, which repeatedly leads to controversy, is carefully and responsibly examined. In consolidating the site, the creation of the critical mass must be a priority. The implementation of the high-school development plan, which is also enshrined in the government programme, and the strengthening of the internationalisation of the high-school sector, is important for the future of the technical universities. It is necessary to rethink the mode of financing in the field of higher education, and funding must be harmonised throughout Austria. Only then – and then safely! – the success of the technical universities will continue to be assured!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10596	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. Speaking time: 3 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10615	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Achleitner, you have addressed the technical colleges, and I can tell you: We have a budget of € 107 million, and as a result the operation can hardly be maintained now. We needed €120 million or more to maintain the operation, and the financial situation is absolutely not insured for 3,000 students. That's to be read from the budget. - Please, don't speak nicely, if it's not. In view of the importance of higher education, much more needs to be done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of her first speech, the Federal Minister thanked all the staff of the department, including all teachers. Of course I join this thanks, but as a youth speaker I also say: The students of Austria don't always have it easy – thanks, dear students! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer also said that the education budget was good and she was satisfied with it. This double disappointments, ladies and gentlemen, because this educational budget is neither good nor should it satisfy the Federal Minister. It leads the Ministry of the Future, and those who lead the Ministry of the Future would have to be the most dissatisfaction in the whole of the Federal Government, because for this area most budget resources were needed. Not only in Sunday's speeches, but also in other speeches the youth is always presented as the future of our country, but the budget resources are at best frozen, because, Mr Amon, this greater budget is structural effects, which you just did not say. This does not mean a single euro for children and young people in education policy. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Murauer and Mr Amon.]] For the students, but there is no more euro for them. It is structural effects that make up these increases, but not that you can make innovative education policy. They make a separate education policy and not an educational policy. They are making a socially selective education policy and not a policy of equal opportunities, just as it was the practice in Austria for 30 years, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I read the following in a magazine today – listen to me, a quote! –: "Not only in economic and social policy, the conservative path now shows its true face, but also in education policy this is the case. The lack of masters, academics are long-term endangering the economic development of Austria. The optimal education of each child is severely hampered by social barriers, the financial resources for schooling are dried out, and schooling is reduced.” That was more than 30 years ago in Austria when the ÖVP ruled alone, and now, in 2003, we are ready again, and that is sad, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: We now have more maturants than ever before!]] Sadly, the 14 to 18-year-olds in Austria are the absolute stepchildren of your education policy, they don't care about anyone – neither those who want to become something in the labour market, nor those who want to attend a school! But in the fairy tale Snow White, ladies and gentlemen, the evil stepmother has also failed to poison the young girl – I still have some hope.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10698	The next speaker is Mr Kainz. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10717	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The future of our home country Austria depends in particular on the education and training of our children and young people. Starting in kindergartens, schools and primary schools, to gymnasiums, we can rightly be proud of our education system in Austria, but we also want to take advantage of every opportunity for further improvements. With this our education system, the basis for a successful professional life and therefore also for strengthening our economic location in Austria will be achieved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But above all, we strengthen the personality formation of our children and young people and prepare them for the future challenges. The Austrian Federal Government wants to further improve the quality of education opportunities and respond to new developments – as a member of my region, I would like to support these efforts. Austria is at the forefront of the hourly panels in Europe. I share the opinion of the Federal Minister Gehrer, who plans a reduction, but above all also a reforestation of the curriculum. [[Abg. Oils: But how!]] I am convinced that these measures are reasonable measures in the sense of Austria and that Austria remains on track in the field of education. In the field of science, as a regional representative of the districts of Baden and Bruck, I am especially proud of the fact that the research centre Seibersdorf is located in our district. This facility is a driving force for many future-oriented projects. Research strengthens Austria's economic location. That is why I am glad that the Republic of Austria, together with the Federal State of Lower Austria and international partners, such as the Society for Heavyions from Germany or Cern in Switzerland, is implementing the MedAustron project. This project for our region, but also for our country, is about strengthening Austria's research and economic location. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The MedAustron project with its particle accelerator will be a significant improvement in medical care, but will also strengthen and further develop the scientific and research location of Austria. Finally, Austria also receives an institution of this kind, as it has long been common in other countries. This project is also of enormous importance in the light of the forthcoming EU enlargement. With this institution, Austria is gaining international importance as a research location and as a medical center for modern cancer therapy, but above all this institution ensures the quality of our future jobs. This is future policy, as we see it from the Austrian People's Party, that is future policy implemented by the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10771	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Lap. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. – Mrs Magistra, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10790	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! In the current budget debate on education, I would like to focus on the field of disabled people, disabled children and young people, in particular on concrete concerns, namely integrative vocational training. The Chamber of Labour, ÖGB and the Chamber of Commerce have agreed that inclusive vocational training offers disadvantaged young people a chance, either through extended training with a regular degree or through partial qualification, but linked to a vocational schooling visit. In the negotiations between the Ministries, it was so that the Ministry of Education has very much crossed itself and that the people concerned do not at all see that young people can learn in the profession, at the workplace, but that they are denied schooling. Mrs. Minister! We discuss a law on equality, we have the European Year of People with Disabilities – it will be time for you to clean up these discriminations in your place of business! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I know, Madam Minister, that you are always very distant on the issues of the integration of disabled children and young people in the school system, and that is a very kind formulation on my part. I think that the Future Commission working in the Ministry of Education will also have the task of convincing Mrs. Minister that the integration of disabled children and young people is very essential and important, because it cannot be so in a society that we do not have talents and skills, that we distinguish children just because they are different and because they have special needs. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The black night breaks into the education system. Reductions, savings, are precisely where schools focus. I have been talking to many school directors, school directors, teachers about this in recent days: No matter whether in general higher schools or in compulsory schools, it is saved where priorities have been set! We all know, however, that priorities are a good weapon for children and young people to stand in their professional lives, in their future lives. Instead of motivation and imagination and further development in this area there are cuts and savings. The end of the school is about to come, but the question remains whether the education system in Austria with this government is fit for the 21st century. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10841	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10859	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The black night, Mrs Lapp, does not break in, but I would rather talk about the sun. [[Abg. Oils: Black Sun?]] The bright sun, not the black one. In my remarks, therefore, I would like to refer specifically to the rural area, the rural education policy. As a result of a well-functioning infrastructure, the rural area today remains a popular and largely equivalent living and working space vis-à-vis the city. One of the most important tasks is therefore the preservation of schools in rural areas. It is about securing quality of life for young people as well. As the much quoted PISA study shows, Austria is far ahead of us in the international comparison. [[Abg. Oils: Wide front? In the middle field we are!]] The training of our educators is good, and our schools are largely modern. I can give you a nice example of strengthening rural areas, an example from Bregenz Forest: We were allowed to move in my community about two months ago to a new federal school building, which, of course, is to the delight of the entire population. The reference of this federal school building was also celebrated by the population as a milestone in education policy. – This means equal opportunities for rural areas, and it is a real commitment by the Ministry of Education to this region. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On behalf of my region, Bregenzer Wald, I would like to thank Mrs. Gehrer and also her employees for this performance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Education is an investment in the future. Let us ensure that there are equal opportunities in rural areas, including in education policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10924	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10943	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The double budget 2003 and 2004 will have a negative impact in many areas, including culture, especially where research and development are concerned. I would like to address two issues today: the situation of federal museums and creative education. To the museums: Austria has a relatively high museum density in relation to the number of inhabitants in Europe, the offer is good and wide. What is lacking are sharper profiles of the individual museums. Here, Mrs Federal Minister, it would be your responsibility, and that has been for years, to define specifications and to carry out coordination functions, so that not many of the museums fish in the same waters, namely in those of classical modern and contemporary art. A study that we are demanding seems to be coming up now, and I am already very curious about the results. However, we are also concerned that the restrictive budget policy could lead to a reduction of staff directly in the museums and thus the research operation and, above all, the art communication offers could remain on the track. This also leads me directly to my second focus, namely the reduction of creative educational opportunities in school. Yesterday, there was a joint call by the art universities, museums, gallerists and teachers in this area, which have turned against the reduction, because these creative areas are also affected by cuts – and this, although cultural education is an enormously important part of general education, and although key competences such as social competence, team ability, discussion with different conflict resolution strategies and so on can be acquired particularly well through cultural educational opportunities; because I think where free thinking can be thought where free work can be done can also arise innovatives and creatives. It is not for nothing that large companies always get creative people who have the task of thinking “against the line. ” In addition to research and general education, it should also be shortened in creative subjects – another area that is important for the future of our country. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only say: No to this inconsistency, the pedagogical inconsistency that can be felt here! – Yes to a school that gives the possibility of a comprehensive and holistic education! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10989	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11009	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The aim of the European Union is to make Europe the most competitive economic and knowledge area in the world by 2010 and to increase the research rate to 3 percent of the gross domestic product. In order to secure the Austrian economic location and jobs, the Federal Government wants to increase investment in research to 2.5 percent of GDP by the end of the legislative period and to 3% by 2010. At present, we are still just under 2%. The expenditure of the Federal Government for Research – you see it at this table, at this graph – is €147 billion in 2003 and €1.56 billion next year. [[the speaker shows a graphic]] This is an increase of 6 percent, and if you even refer to 1999, it is an increase of 23 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Who is actually researching in Austria? The universities are in their entirety the largest research institution in our country. There are also the research companies and the research industry, and there are many non-university institutions, such as the Academy of Sciences, and the Federal Scientific Institutions. One of these federal institutions that conduct research is the Bundesanstalt für Landtechnik in Wieselburg, which I also belong to. There a handful of scientists are researching biomass and renewable raw materials. This issue is also explicitly mentioned in the Government Convention. We have been a pioneer on the subject of biodiesel, which is Europe-wide. This project began in the late 1980s under Dipl.-Ing. Josef Riegler. The use of bio-fuels will also provide further impetus through an EU-directive: The share of biofuels in total fuel consumption is to be increased to 2% by the end of 2005 and to 5.75 percent by 2010. Another great success was achieved by the Bundesanstalt für Landtechnik, together with Grazer and Wiener Instituten, to the effect that an application for an “Austrian Bioenergy Center” was approved by the BMVIT in the “K-plus” programme. This centre has its headquarters at TU Graz, with an outdoor office in Wieselburg, and will conduct high-quality, internationally competitive research and development in all areas of thermal biomass use. This will further force the Austrian position in this field and contribute to an expansion of the international market share of the Austrian economy. I wanted to show by this example that small, powerful institutes can also carry out efficient applied research and, in terms of renewable raw materials, can contribute to climate protection as well as to the sustainable supply of energy and raw materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11068	Mr Reheis has now come to speak. 3 minutes speaking time, second word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11086	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! In such a debate one must of course also address the subject of art and art objects or the question of how a country deals with such objects of art. As it stands in a country around culture, one also sees, among other things, how this country deals with its cultural goods. It is not possible to avoid talking about the latest art theft. I say: Incredible negligence, negligence and sluggishness, even superiority of a museum multi enabled art thieves to have relatively easy access to the “Saliera” from the Art History Museum estimated at €50 million. [[Abg. Wittauer: Gerhard! Were these the safeguard measures taken by the Social Democrats? They missed that!]] It has been made relatively easy for criminals: Unsecured scaffoldings, disabled alarm systems, the “Saliera” was not protected by tank glass, and the video system was disabled. The consequences, ladies and gentlemen, are not to be feared by Mr Hofrat Seipel. It is in an openly celebrated close relationship with the ÖVP and therefore does not need to lead to any consequences. [[Abg. Wittauer: He has taken an old safeguard from you!]] On the contrary, my colleague: He is protected and defended by the Federal Minister, and the Federal Minister said that, despite the proven “technical assistance” – under quotation marks – for the thieves who robbed these “saliera”, the security in the Art History Museum is sufficient. [[Abg. Wittauer: Because he can't do anything for it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is also art robbery with the help of the state! I am horrified and worried about how to deal with his art treasures in Austria, because not only in the Kunsthistorische Museum do art treasures disappear, no, even in the Belvedere gallery this is obviously almost normality. The Court of Auditors report presents the Belvedere Gallery with a shockingly bad witness about the administration, preservation, collection of the works of art entrusted and the financial performance. And in this case too, the Managing Director, Director Frodl, is protected and even rewarded by the Federal Government with a doubling of the annual subscription. [[Abg. Wittauer: Was that the case under State Secretary Wittmann?]] Here are some examples of the negligent handling of the Austrian Gallery Belvedere 410 works of art, one of which worth around € 1.09 million, were stored in an area with a significant risk of fire and explosion. [[Abg. Wittauer: Gerhard! Was that with Wittmann at the time?]] 226 art objects are lost with an unexplained stay. The "Collection Poiret", 14 leaves by Egon Schiele and numerous other works of art have disappeared at all. Ladies and gentlemen! The causes of these losses are the best conditions in the inventory and in the resistance of the objects. Double inventory could not be corrected. The Austrian Gallery Belvedere has not under control the conditions set out by the Court of Auditors. The responsible persons are protected by the Federal Minister Gehrer and even, as can be seen from the example of Director Frodl, are rewarded with double references. Obviously, in Austria you only have to belong to the right party!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11179	The next speaker is Mrs Schefermair. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11199	Mr President, I should like to thank the Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Resting on what you learned a long time ago is not enough today. One million Upper Austrians – Upper Austria is my home country – have used an opportunity for training last year. They show willingness to lifelong learning. The range of education ranges from general education courses, second-level education, vocational training courses to management courses and personal education courses. In a survey conducted by the Fessel Institute, in which one wanted to know how the continuing training activities have looked like in the last three years among the under 50s, it was found that 48 percent are attending “active” and “frequently active” training courses. Additional funds from the European Social Fund are available for adult education through redeployment in 2003 and 2004. This will increase the use of adult education institutions, the possibility of participating in projects under EU programmes. On the basis of this measure, the reductions in national funding do not have a concrete impact on adult education. In total, € 179.5 million will be spent in this field of education. I myself am a trainer in adult education for rural areas. This course is called “BFU”, “Agricultural Family Business”. There, people in various modules are getting knowledge expansion in the field of technical, that is, in the field of professional and personal further education. I was allowed to accompany people there and could experience that they really enriched out of these modules, have gone out of these courses. Now a brief remark: I have a daughter who is 16 years old and who visits a HBLA in Linz. She's got 39 hours a week. It still has a school path of ten hours a week and an average time required for exercise and learning of 12 hours. So she's coming up to 61 hours. It is actually not sad about the hourly reduction – but it is sad about the way it is discussed at school.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11239	The next speaker is Mr Christ. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11258	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Austria's museums have works of art of invaluable value. We can be very proud of that. But we are also obliged to protect them accordingly. Recent reports of the Federal Criminal Office confirm: Statistically speaking, an art theft is committed in Austria every day – which is taken into account by private individuals. Only 10 to 15 percent of all stolen art objects appear again. In the previous year, for example, Austrian cultural goods worth €1.8 million were stolen. The “Saliera” alone, on the other hand, has an estimated value of over €50 million. In general, however, it must be noted – and this is noted by the Federal Criminal Office – that the number of cases of art theft increases: In 2002, about 239 images disappeared – almost 50 percent more than 2001! And for example, 203 statues have been stolen from chapels and churches. To return to the theft of the “Saliera” [[Abg. Wittauer: This has already been told by Mr Reheis, Member of Parliament. Do you have anything else to talk about, Mr. Colleague?]] It is not only the task of the Federal Government to provide adequate financial support to museums for their primary activities, but also, above all, to ensure the appropriate safety of works of art. I brought light to the Art History Museum! – So recently the director of the museum Wilfried Seipel said. - I'm just guessing: In the room where the “Saliera” was located, Seipel obviously forgot to bring it, for the question of a journalist, why the surveillance camera had not filmed anything, came the answer: Because it's dark at night! Surprisingly shrewd – without a doubt – but in reality a very embarrassing and indebted statement by a responsible director! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As I have taken out the media reports, you too, Mrs Minister, still believe that the security measures would be sufficient. I don't think so. The thieves have invaded the museum via a structure. According to Burghauptmann, this scaffold was set up in front of the National Council election campaign and used as an advertising space, and only after that did the contract for the renovation of the facade – which is also not quite uninteresting. And security officials obviously didn't behave properly in the service. So there has been a lot of miscarriage. Now, if one hears that the risk factor of human beings in connection with the “Saliera” theft should be given greater attention, as was found at the safety summit in the Ministry of Education, then I would personally think of some risk factors by name that would be taken into account. It is certain, however, that we need to safeguard and protect our valuable cultural goods much more than it has been in the past. That's why I'm looking for you, Mrs. Minister: Support the Austrian museums especially with security issues! Dozen You have the necessary budget items accordingly! In this context, take your responsibility very seriously! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11300	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11319	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today, the budget debate is about to end, and we will vote in a few hours. The present budget for 2003 and 2004 provides a solid basis and ensures that the necessary reforms and measures can ultimately also be implemented. The priorities of these budgets could be summarized under the heading: Sustainable investment in the future – investments to secure and expand Austria's economic location on the one hand. It is investment in education – this is a big block – in infrastructure, in the protection of our pensions and our health system. It also includes a tax reform with a sustainable discharge, as well as a fundamental state and administrative reform. Dear ladies and gentlemen! These budgets have always been drawn up with a view to achieving a balanced budget over the economic cycle. That is to say, in the event of a weaker economy, to buy solid deficits, such as the 2003 and 2004 budgets, and in the case of good economic conditions, to generate surpluses. In my opinion, the University Reform 2000 is a milestone in the history of universities. I would like to mention a few points: There is a new age for universities, and there is budgetary security between 2004 and 2006. There will be a global budget of €1.66 billion per anno, and additional €15 billion will be available for the implementation of the University Law. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] ==References== January the universities have full autonomy. That means: Within human resources, operating and investment expenditure, re-transmissions are possible. This in particular brings the advantage of flexibility, but it also means a new responsibility and especially a challenge for the rectors. Dear ladies and gentlemen! ==References== January 2004, the study contributions remain directly with the universities – a new quality assurance. We will be happy to give this budget our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11370	The next speaker is Mr Broukal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11450	Mr Kurzbauer! I would like to thank you for the brief discussion we have held. I think it makes sense when I say: We two put together and try to make a common account on an Excel sheet. That helps both of us. I am willing to learn from you if my numbers – these are the figures of the Chamber of Workers – are wrongfully different from what you have told me. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Ledolter and Dr Ferdinand Maier.]] - I don't hear you talking silently. We only had 2 days to think. We may also see ourselves afterwards. [[Abg. Steibl: If you sit so often in the cafeteria...!]] All day school – my first topic. I am pleased that the ÖVP has now given its approval. We should not lose time now to keep track of each other reports in which you say that we cannot agree. I think the ground is wide enough that we can go over it together – right? Even parents would have deserved to have many children and students deserved that there is this school form in a wide range of courses. Of course, it cannot be to congratulate parents and children who do not want to. Only: It should also finally be concluded with the reverse, that those who need it are forced to be congratulated against their will with schools that are out at noon. [[Abg. Rossmann: You have reasonable views!]] We're on a good way here. Let's hope it goes on! Universities. – We have been confronted for years with a decline in budgetary resources, a slimming against will! Money would be, as we know, there, but it is used for other purposes. I'm sorry. I think the universities have arrived at the end of their savings. An internal e-mail from the University of Vienna to all institutes has shown where you have already arrived: There is simply the window cleaning set for this day! No more windows are cleaned, 200 000 € will be deleted from the cleaning budget. – If one assumes that there has been no unnecessary cleaning at the University of Vienna, then the journalists will see a lot of things during a local eyelet at the University of Vienna in October or November! [[Abg. Wittauer: It was consciously made that way! ...to deal with money, too!]] The universities are released into independence, but unfortunately with empty pockets! – Mrs Federal Minister! This always reminds me of my grandmother, who was in 1918 as a 13. Child of a forest-fourthly farmer with what she could carry in her hand, and with the wish that she could go well in life, was put on the street. So About Treating You're the universities! Autonomy is already something very fine, but the autonomy of a beggar probably not! However, the universities seem to be close to this condition at the moment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: Unrealistic!]] All the big funds complain, without exception, even the FWF, I don't need to invent anything. I have already quoted this morning the Federal Government's research and technology report, which itself concludes that Austria is an extremely average country in terms of expenditure on research and development. – What do you want to add to this, except that it is time for Mrs Bundesminister to change it as quickly as possible and to extend the hand of the opposition to you again? We are happy to help you, but it is not up to us, as we know, but it is up to the Minister for Finance, but it is also due to the priorities you yourself set in the Federal Government. They have priorities other than to promote research and development as sustainable as it should be. I come to my last point: Helmut Krunes is still a university councillor at the Technical University in Vienna. – Mrs Federal Minister, you know, since I met you as a journalist, I have always appreciated you, and I have a great deal of respect for you. I therefore have a problem to understand what it is about that you can't just sit down and say: There has been a mistake in my office; someone who was still a politician a year ago cannot be a university councillor; we are restoring this mistake, Mr. Dr. Krunes has seen it and has resigned from my initiative! You're trying to tell me that it's been three months since it took legal considerations to find out if someone who was on the 24th. On March 1, 2002, a political party, a politician, was a deputy country party to the law. I think your lawyers should conclude their work and give you the only advice: Dr. Helmut Krunes has to step back! [[Abg. Oillingers: And a few more too!]] Please make this possible!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11554	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11575	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Federal Minister Gehrer did not hide the fact that the 2003 budget of universities is scarce, but that, together with the 2004 budget and some supporting possibilities to be granted to these two budgets, such as the joint budgeting for two years, including 2004, such as a significantly better budget for 2004, but above all by providing universities with the possibilities of the global budget and thus a more flexible budgeting already in 2003, a sufficient basis for universities and science to develop positively in these two years. I would like to address the words of my previous speaker, Mr Broukal, who has just said that the universities will be released into autonomy with empty pockets and that more money would be needed for the universities. Let us therefore look at the alternatives to what Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer has presented here today from the not so far away perspective of the year. ==References== November 2002, the “Small Newspaper” in Carinthia reported that the so-called SPÖ ministerial candidate Broukal – I do not know where this is provided in the Constitution, but so he was then called – meant that there was a great lack of knowledge at the universities about the needs of the students. [[Abg. Steibl: Yes, yes, they are!]] Whether this is the case with the university and the professors you mentioned today, is another question. Above all, however, in November 2002, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Broukal, literally meant – I quote –: "There should also be no additional money for the universities under a Minister of Broukal. Saving and repainting are its recipes. ,There is so much bureaucracy there and... Obstacles that cost money, which is needed much more urgently elsewhere’,...’ And it also says: “Experience from his time at ORF shows that “in many areas, ten percent can be saved without anyone noticing anything.” – Citing. Mr Broukal! Perhaps you could make these experiences available to universities because they actually have more resources than in the past if they still save ten percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] Mr Broukal, one question, also referred to you yesterday: What is the right truth, Mr. Broukal? . Mr Broukal of today or that of Mr Broukal's Minister of Foreign Affairs, dated 16 November 2002?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11615	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11634	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. In view of my short speaking time, I would like to deal with a single subject, namely the impact of the tuition fees. From the report on the social situation of students we know that two thirds of students are already working today, working during the semester, not to earn a little money for the holidays, but – on the contrary! – because they constantly have to earn money for their livelihood. For a few days now, we have had a study commissioned by the Ministry of Science to investigate: Who did his studies after the introduction of the tuition fees? What were the reasons for this? And: What people were these? The study shows very impressively that after the introduction of the study fees, the social composition of the students has actually changed, and that those who have aborted the study due to the introduction of the study fees were by far not the so-called and much quoted cartels! On the contrary: The study shows that to a very, very high proportion of young people, as the study says, far-reaching shifts – I say: Young people who come from low-income families have had to quit their studies because, as it turned out, the tuition fees are an obstacle to low-income families to sending their children to universities. Those who have graduated have given a high degree of tuition fees as the reason for this. What is particularly sad about me – and I hope you too, Mrs Minister – is that in these young people who have had to quit their studies due to the tuition fees, the proportion of women is particularly high. And this confirms the fears that we always had, namely that the study fees will also lead to a discussion in the families in which only one child can be supported, who it will be, the daughter or the son, and that one often chooses to have the daughters studied. [[Abg. Großruck: There are scholarships for this!]] That would be a step back, which I am sure you too, Mrs Minister, do not want him. Therefore, we should consider together how we can deal with it. What are the consequences of this study? – On the one hand, I would say, of course: Stop the tuition fees! But I'm realist enough to know that this will not happen under your government. Since a high proportion of drop-offs were active, and more than 36 hours a week, I thought it was very important at least once to consider how to support and create the relevant framework conditions – on the one hand, as far as the courses are concerned, but also by amending the tuition fees if you already want to keep them! One of the problems that even the advocates call it is that the tuition fees are linked to time. This should be decoupled and thus supported by those who are particularly committed as they study and are still active. They deserved it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11670	I call Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11689	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The task of folk cultural work is to preserve and maintain our cultural heritage in order to preserve future generations. Each federal state has its own customs and cultural practices of a very individual nature, which must be maintained and promoted. As a musical director and chaplain of a music club, it is especially important that folk culture in Austria be preserved, maintained and supported accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Vorarlberg, ladies and gentlemen, is a country in which tradition and customs have a high priority and represent a strong link for generations. The Federal Ministry under the direction of Ms. Minister Gehrer provides financial support for the various activities, institutions, projects and events of popular culture of federal relevance in order to preserve our rich cultural landscape. It is necessary and important that the work of the countless volunteers in this area, without which much would not be possible and feasible, is supported accordingly. To this end, in Vorarlberg, the Ehrenamt action was set up, in which the achievements of the volunteers are especially appreciated and made aware of a broad public. At the same time, there is also the “Youth in front of the curtain” action in which committed young people are given the opportunity to present themselves and their initiative in the media. And I am pleased to be able to report that many young people benefit from this offer in a creative way and thus become, for example, for others. The Federal Ministry honours outstanding achievements through the award of the Austrian National Cultural Prize. This award was already awarded for the third time in 2001, and I am actually proud that the municipality of Bizau in Bregenzerwald was highlighted with this award. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The municipality of Bizau has been awarded both for its successful integration of modern architecture into the traditional townscape and for the performance of the “Bizau talks” on contemporary questions of art and culture. It is not only about preserving old things, but also about connecting old and new ones to enable further development. To achieve this objective, financial support was available in 2001 in the form of a basic project and personnel subsidies, amounting to € 556,000. In the sense of popular culture, it would be desirable for this amount to be increased, but the current resources have also led to the possibility of strengthening the folk culture and thereby preserving an important piece of our tradition and our identity and preserving it for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11752	The next speaker is Mrs Walther. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11770	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear guests, among them many students, who will probably be very interested in the topic! ==References== The Austrian rectors' conference on the budget situation of universities in 2003 was held in June 2003. Today, in the standard, you, Mrs. Minister, have called this statement or this reference to the dramatic budgetary situation as “pity”, which is definitely “necessary”. I would like to quote briefly from this opinion so that you can know what happened in there at all: “The ‘university billion’, about €73 million, will be completely deleted for 2003, as it is treated as a unique need for extra money! The study contributions obviously only serve to stop budget holes.” – This is also our impression! And on top of that: “They do not come to universities in 2003, in any case – contrary to all political commitments – they are not used for the improvement of the study situation or for investment. ... Even the necessary replacement investments cannot be made in 2003. The sum of the investment activity will be in line with the level of 2000 this year’, and the lack of funds compared with the previous year. - Quote. I am sorry that you, Mrs. Federal Minister, call it a pity. But in part you have already responded to this, namely with regard to the grant of study grants for working mothers, where there is now a grant for children. But, of course, this is not what the universities needed for the year 2003. And even if you admit that the budget is very thin, and claim that 2004 will be better again: Today, the situation is really dramatic, as only the example of window cleaning proves! The introduction of study fees has also timing its impact. There have really been a lot of students from far-reaching shifts – my previous speaker has already pointed out – who stopped studying. I think it is important to point out that the abolition of tuition fees would be urgently necessary for these students, but above all as a first step for the working students, the proposal by Members Kuntzl to decouple fees from time to time, would be put on the agenda. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11813	Mrs Gehrer has now come to speak. The clock is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11831	Mr President. High house! First to the universities. The university billion is of course included in the budget, namely in Division 3. For two years, university directors have been complaining that university billions are only awarded project-related, that they cannot even divide them at their universities, that they want to have the university billions in their own budget – we have done so. The university billion is, of course, included in the 2003 budget! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I strongly note: The universities have a slightly tighter budget this year, but they have numerous opportunities to compensate, and they have a very good budget next year. Future-oriented managers can be expected to plan them by the end of 2004, even if the year 2003 is already half over and they have come over very well. Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of study contributions, I note the following: Austria has free access to universities. The number of students active has not changed since the introduction of the study contributions. The inflow to the universities is unbroken – we have an increase of 12.4 percent in the first reported. The study's contributions are not social barriers, they have been identified in the study on the situation of students. The funding of studies is equal to social differences, and, Mrs Muttonen, those who are employed can work from 1. January 2004 to complete their study contributions. I'm really asking you: What do you want? You more? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In the field of research, I note the following: Research expenditure in Austria has been significantly increased since 2000 and reached a historic peak in 2002 at € 1 457,000,000. They are therefore 19 percent higher than the value of the year 2000. You can always say: That's too little! , but, ladies and gentlemen, there must also be the right accents. [[Abg. Oils: That's right!]] We will again have at our disposal € 600 million for additional research impulses in the next few years. Already in the 2004 budget – everyone can read this – €180 million is available for research impulses. [[Call the SPÖ: Too little!]] However, we also have the fact that in all countries of Europe, the division of research investment by the economy and research investment is different from that of the government. With us, investments in research come to 42 percent from the budget, 58 percent from the economy, from the private side. – The Barcelona target is that 33 percent come from the public sector and 67 percent from the business sector. Ladies and gentlemen! There are very positive developments: There are large companies, large industrial enterprises in Austria investing in institutes investing in research schools that are willing to go to these areas. There is also the consideration to establish the Austrian National Foundation, which also sets offensives for research. It is an overall package in the field of research that gives impetus to research and that will enable us to reach the target for Barcelona in 2010.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11893	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11911	Mr President. Ladies Minister! High house! Values listeners! A lot has been said, some things need to be repeated and more pronounced. International studies clearly show that education quality in Austria is high and that educational institutions also have good conditions. Every seventh euro available in the budget is spent on education today. Austria is an undisputed educational country. The best must be good enough for our young people. We need the highest quality of education for all, regardless of whether they are apprentices, students or students. [[Abg. Oils: We already know that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also make a personal comment, as my wife is a high school teacher: We are talking a lot about the situation in schools, and I can tell you that my wife is doing very well with the conditions. [[Call to the liberals: I think so!]] [[Abg. Oils: Incredible!]] The autonomy can then be lived positively if it is engaged, highly motivated teachers, directors and inspectors. Then it works wonderful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Incredible!]] In my opinion, however, it is also important to ensure a comprehensive education provision. [[Abg. Oillinger: What autonomy are you talking about?]] I mean, above all, corresponding infrastructures in rural areas. Since there are also a lot of small schools or dwarf schools in our rural areas, I am still expecting support for our children and young people in this regard. I welcome the fact that, with the reduction of hours for the students, the small schools in the country are better protected or secured, because no teachers are being reduced, but then they have more time for the few children. This is a very crucial measure for us by the ÖVP. It is up to the individual federal states to achieve an even better guarantee of these posts for teachers in future renegotiations of the financial compensation. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the adoption by Minister of Education Gehrer in 1995, much has also gone on outside compulsory schools. With its more than 30 locations – distributed throughout Austria – the specialized universities offer a wide range of education at the highest level. [[Abg. Oils: The sun shines!]] Not all locations are well secured, such as those of the Technique Carinthia. However, it is up to the foreign exchange not to put together sites, but to introduce new ideas for courses that are needed. I would have an inspiration for the future: There is already a programme of public management; it would also be necessary to develop a programme of regional management. This would close the circle to the small schools, to the dwarf schools, as I mentioned them earlier. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We also need sustainable projects and sustainability for the students, which has already been mentioned by my previous speakers. It is not only a matter of giving wings to young people, Mr Oellinger, but also of restoring their roots by conveying their values where they can be oriented – possibly through a new subject of teaching, such as sustainability. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: How is that supposed to go?]] That would be very important for the future. We should agree on this point. Investment in education is in particular investment in youth and therefore also sustainable investment in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But is your speech sustainable?]] Ionesco already said: One thing calms me down: “I don’t understand Einstein, but today’s students “understand him.” In order for the students to understand us in the future, we should support Mrs Gehrer's forward-looking education policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Please save us further details!]] Even if you raise your hands to prayer again, Mr. Ollinger, allow me a final sentence: To live education and to show a corresponding level, this also applies to this house. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12076	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12118	Ladies and gentlemen! The young people generally make three demands in their studies. First: It's supposed to be interesting. Secondly, It is supposed to be real and in a certain period of time really studyable. And thirdly, It's supposed to offer job prospects. The technical universities are obviously those training rails in Austria, which are relatively close to these requirements. I think this also explains the boom they have experienced in recent years. Unfortunately, there are far too few offers in this area, the ratio offer: Demand is about 1 : 3; that is unfortunate. But where we are, I think, on the right path, is the share of women. When the university studies were started in Austria, the proportion of women was 25 percent, and now it is more than a third. That's a good way. I believe that gender mainstreaming and women's promotion in this area are two ways to do this: First of all, it is about motivating young women to take also so-called non-traditional courses of study. Secondly, however, it is also about making offers that meet the interests of women. The Burgenland, for example, makes this quite excellent. In Burgenland, the proportion of women in higher education courses is more than 50 percent. This is due to the relevant offers made there. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] Yes, the Burgenland is great, no question. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] What has, of course, also contributed to increasing the proportion of women, is that the social academies have been upgraded and are now also specialized in higher education. I hope that this will also be the medical and technical and medical radiological training et cetera in the future. One area where there is much to do and where there is a great need for reflection in this regard is, for example, that of the social and health professions. There is the ratio between demand and supply even 8 : 1, for technical studies, for example it is only 2 : 1. That means that in reality there would still be a lot to do and a lot of opportunities would be given to promote women in this area. As I said, we're on the right track. Where we are not on the right path, where there has even been a pretty big step back, there is where it is about pausing people who do not have Matura into a university. While at the beginning, even after the introduction of the high-school courses, about 5.5 percent of young people have gone to the vocational college without traditional university maturity, it is now less than 2 percent. I think this is very alarming because it clearly failed to achieve an educational objective. There are no good preparation courses for people without Matura, and by the practice that those who do not have Matura are more and more not accepted, many young people without Matura are also deterred from applying at all. Summa summarum is to be criticised that the approach for the technical colleges in 2003 will also be frozen at € 107 million in 2004, preventing a successful education offer from very many young people. Whoever saves on education saves on the future, and that is certainly not the right way!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12185	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12203	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Even our children are trying to explain that they are learning not for school but for life. Sometimes they believe it, too. It is all the more important that we talk here in the hall about how we can keep education quality up to date and up-to-date, because education quality decides on quality of life: The better the education of our children, the higher their quality of life and thus the quality of life of society will be in the future. Responsible education policy needs the courage to constantly change and to be willing to respond to new developments. [[Abg. Oillinger: Think of my quality of life!]] And there are times when the spirits – Mr. Ollinger, you are one who is reluctant to respond to new things – because it is then obvious who stands for progress and future design and who prefers to block everything new, who covers spaces and individual development opportunities, and who wants to block and prevent reform approaches in the discussion phase, for example, through threats of strike. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Teachers do great work, but it also needs a certain vocation for this profession. The strikes on the occasion of the discussion on the reduction of hours were exclusively at the expense of the students and parents. If our students already spend more time in school than many in their workplaces, then something is wrong, and we need to change that in the sense of the students and in the sense of the quality of training. [[Abg. Oillingers: Then the strikes were very positive!]] Much of the union should think about how things are going, and not just about how things are not going. The teaching budget will continue to rise by around €200 million in this year and next year. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: That's where everyone else says numbers!]] This testifies to responsible, forward-looking education quality and education policy. For me, as a defender of rural regions, investment in educational content and the preservation of small and medium-sized schools is very important. Federal Minister Elisabeth Heir to a guarantee that our children will receive the best school education, no matter where they live.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12274	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12292	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition is not supposed to be all sick - I have heard today from the FPÖ and also from the ÖVP more often. [[Abg. Großruck: Because it doesn't work anyway!]] My feeling as a Member of Parliament – I have been here in the house for six months – is that these two parties are particularly sick here, namely the period between 1970 and 2000, which is particularly remarkable and somewhat peculiar, because these two parties were 17 years of it in government responsibility. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Economic, budgetary, that's all believable!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I have also listened very carefully to Mr Fuhrmann's speech. She said that she wanted to remove the positive from this budget. I have listened closely to what came out of it: on the one hand, thanks to the Minister for the fact that the schools are now 99 percent connected to the Internet. – Two-thirds of the schools, I believe, have been concerned with countries; they have become foreign feathers and their own feathers. The second thing she thought of – and that was really remarkable – was a thank you to the Minister for not shortening English education in the elementary school. So if that's the substrate of the positive, it's hard to add a lot to it, because this soup was very thin! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Unfortunately, Mr Rossmann has left the hall now, she has said something about integration, not quite wrong, namely that there are problems in integration when children with non-German mother tongues are brought to school and trained only in older years, with seven, eight, nine years. In this respect, we have also put forward a proposal which would do a great deal here immediately; it concerns the question of family integration. There is nothing for the Minister now, but after all, in the Council of Ministers, she takes part in the establishment regulation. At the moment we have a waiting period of two or three years in the family together. That is, we make sure that the children come to Austria only two or three years later and therefore are two or three years older when they come to school. This is also one of the major problems of integration in the school sector. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Since the lamb is already flashing and I do not want to take away too much time from my colleagues, just two very short points. One thing is: Mrs Minister, there is a skepticism as to how you deal with numbers. [[Abg. Oillinger: However!]] I remember how the budget was presented, how it should have made us aware that €700 million is now available – or €800 million – and that it is very soon that this is a budget trick. [[Abg. Oils: 800 million!]] That is why skepticism is appropriate. If you look closely at the numbers, you have to say that this scepticism is not quite wrong. What's really unimaginable is the way you save. They are trying to save in the education sector, and have initially tried to save on teachers. You probably didn't get through with this, and now you're going to go where the weakest seem to be, at the expense of the children, by shortening school hours, and at the expense of the young teachers whose contracts are not extended or who have no chance of being hired at all. This is at least inventive, if not negligent, especially if you say you are now burdening the children, these should be two hours less in school each week, so that the burden is lower. This will save you at least in quality, because I hope you too feel that the quality of the education system in school is higher than in the afternoon at home. It might be appropriate to save something in the afternoon, in the practice area and so on. One last sentence on behalf of my group. Mrs. Dr. Knollmayer is here in this house for the last time today, and we want to thank her for the great merits she has earned, especially in the field of equal treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12391	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12420	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear visitors, especially from the district of Grieskirchen, from the Young Economy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! After these dull arrows, which have been shot down from the opposition to the Federal Ministers who have missed their goal, I should like to congratulate and thank you very much once, Mrs Federal Minister. They are a politician, as we need them in times like these, who understand politics as forms, as reforming, as forward-looking actions, and who is also willing to take measures that are not always popular but necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They want measures, which are only populist, which do not develop Austria further, but stop, and they are known to be a step backwards. If you want to secure pensions, you have to reform. Those who want to secure the health system must reform and those who want to secure education, maintain or improve the quality standard must reform, ladies and gentlemen. The fact that your all kinds of threats and threats, your claims of driving, of the social cold, of the social emergency and so on do not benefit you can see the example of tuition fees. What have you weathered and set against the tuition fees in the last period! Mr Gusenbauer moved around and said: We'll get rid of them when we win the elections! – We still have the tuition fees, and we still have the same Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. May. Trunk: Unfortunately!]] You know why? – Because the population has failed a lot than you! It sees and contributes to the necessary reforms. The Mar, which Mrs Kuntzl announced again today, namely that the study fees would make a social choice, is simply wrong! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You get out of the SPÖ here and claim the wrong one, because you know exactly when someone gets a scholarship – and the scholarship is oriented according to the social situation – then he doesn't pay any tuition fees. Take note of this and do not always tell the untruth here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The second March, ladies and gentlemen, is that the students protest against hourly cuts. They were instrumentalized! [[Abg. Oils: Manipulated!]] Declare, you'll give me the right to remember your own schooling: I couldn't have imagined that any of my colleagues would have protested at a few hours of school. There must have been a quantum leap in the evolution of humanity in the last five to ten years when the students suddenly go out and protest at fewer hours of school. Something's wrong! That can't be! Every reasonable person knows that the students are happy when they have less hours. HTL students who spend over 60 hours in school can be happy that they are now experiencing a small reduction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you also support teachers' strikes! Everyone has the right to strike, of course, but you can already comment on whether it makes sense to strike with the students and the parents, who are also with us, to instrumentalize the students. I say no for my part. [[Abg. Oils: Most of them are at the ÖVP!]] Rather, reasonable negotiations are to be conducted, then one can see, and then school reform will also be carried out, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Why don't you praise the government?]] Finally, because the red light is already shining, I will not bring this time the usual four-liner, but, Mr Oellinger, I will amend a farmer's rule so that it will express the level and quality of the strike. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen, an Austrian farmer rule: Stairs in May the trade union leader, June is never far!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12538	The next speaker is Mr Rada. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12557	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! In view of the short period of time and after this long debate on education in particular and in general, I would like to devote myself once again to the general compulsory school at the end of this debate. It's not with God as you described, Mrs Rossmann, school. It may have been school, like she was 30, 40 years ago when you went to school. ==References== In the 19th century, compulsory school and, above all, primary school became a completely different one! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! They have explained why service posts become less: This is this “evil” financial compensation. And, Mrs. Federal Minister, you presented us with characteristics, just: These characteristics are no longer appropriate for the school year 2003 and 2004. We are no longer at the placardial 14.3 in the primary school, but at 14.8 with objective 15. We're not at the primary school at 9.7, but at more. Why I said “pastively” Because that sounds like for all those who have little idea of the compulsory school, as if a primary school teacher is actually available for 9,8 children. It's just the other way around! This means that the entire school organisation must be carried out, so that every sick person, every special holiday, every training leave must be managed. If today many representatives of the People's Party have always been praised to receive small schools: The exact opposite will be the case, because with these indicators it will no longer be possible to provide four-class schools with 50 and 60 children. [[Abg. Großruck: That's not true, it's wrong!]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Maybe this is the case in Vienna!]] [[Abg. Grandruck: That's wrong!]] Already in the coming school year from these former four-class small schools, two-class schools with departmental education, which we thought to have overcome 50 years ago. [[Abg. Grandruck: Wrong again!]] And another one: Our municipalities and mayors have made great financial efforts to renovate these small schools. What is the result: They will be reduced and they will also be closed if this so-called education reform is fully implemented. Another final point: the holiday reduction already mentioned several times. This holiday cut was propagated at a time when I can't stand the impression that this should be a penalty for the stretching teachers of the time: Because you've gone on strike, we'll cut down the vacations, and in this time you'll be happy to pick up the lost teaching material again! – Change holiday regulations, Mrs Minister, yes, but then according to learning psychological principles and not perhaps according to the notions of an economic lobby.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12642	There are no further statements on the Education and Science chapter. This concludes the debate on this chapter. I thank Mrs. Gehrer. Finance Chapter 50: Financial management Chapter 51: Cash account Chapter 52: Public charges Chapter 53: Financial compensation Chapter 54: Federal assets Chapter 55: Pensions Chapter 58: Community financing, foreign exchange agreements Text of the Federal Financial Laws and establishment plans
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12710	We are now entering into the negotiation of the part of finance in the Federal Finance Act for 2003 and 2004. We are going into the debate. Mr Matznetter spoke. Speech time: about 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12734	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government! High house! We are opening the chapter on finance after yesterday's opportunity to speak about the more private details to the Minister for Finance. Since yesterday, we know what's behind the saying: Less state, more private! He spends his time calling the IV when he needs money. So there are taxes not only for taxpayers, but also for other associations, just for other purposes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] But let's just stick to the loads. It was promised by the government of Schüssel I the year of harvest 2003. After all the high loads caused by the highest tax and tax rate of the Second Republic, there was the great, illustrious promise: The discharge will come in 2003! Members of the FPÖ remember this very well, because they did so in Knittelfeld to break the agreement in the air because they did not want to agree to a shift. And now you're making yourself up and saying, Great, 2 million Austrians are relieved by this package!Unknown term type: "%s".? Only: The reality is quite another: It is hard to disburse it by increasing energy taxes, by a higher mineral oil tax! A small circle, namely the one with income between €900 and €1 100, gets a little more, and that vast majority of people who either have less or more income, is disassembled length times width. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It will be saved, only not where it is in its own responsibility, not in the administration: There is a breakdown, and higher amounts are spent under “Sacrifice expenditure” after the jobs are first awarded. Separated, if, in the pocket of pensioners. Only: This is not a save when I grab into the wallets of others, which is just as much a burden as when taxes are increased. On the back of the people in Austria, a policy is being made that is disillusioned where people have not earned it, and where the money is shuddered, where the tax gifts are asked. This brings me to the measures to be taken with regard to the reserve for profits not collected. € 400 million will be spent in the form of a reduction in tax revenue to provide a tax advantage to those companies that no longer spend on research and development that no longer create jobs, which are no longer those that may invest but those... – The quatches, because they are probably again busy with private things, who can plug a money somewhere to make a new homepage. [[Interlocutory call at the SPÖ in response to that Federal Minister Mag. Grasser and State Secretary Dr. Finz talk to each other at the government bank.]] He's always busy with this, the office and the minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Violent calls at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Minister Grasser probably deals with most of the time, but with the effects of a tax reform, where investment benefits are removed, at a time when the economy is so bad that we experience quarterly a reduction in forecast values... [[Abg. May. Molterer: Deputies! I note that no Member of Parliament is squatting about the government groups in this House!]] – Sorry, you just gave the example during my speech, Mr Molterer, because you do not have on the matter yourself, but on the content... [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Again, I repeat, although time has advanced: Tax gifts are given to make a mini-stimulation in businesses. Small and medium-sized enterprises that need and invest the money to live will not get anything. Investment benefits end. The loads for the period 2004 to 2006 amount to € 1.4 billion. This is a burden government; the promised discharge will not take place until 2006. And now I come to the point of the overall programme: The focus is on marketing, the content work is without concept. And where a concept can be seen, it is a concept of redistribution from bottom to top. Let us not forget one thing, ladies and gentlemen: We have the highest level of government debt at the end of 2002. We have an administrative deficit of €3.9 billion this year. And at the end of this period we will have an additional €7 billion in debt. Nothing has happened structurally. The F&E quota stagnates at 1.9 percent. And we are experiencing a social reduction in Austria, through which the majority of people in this country have become poorer rather than richer. This is a policy which neither I nor my group deserves approval. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12813	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12831	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am in the rare situation today that I can address not only my previous speakers but also the following speakers, who have already announced via the media, he wants to lead today's final debate to the budget less on the ground, but rather at the level where it is about throwing a successful finance minister with dirt. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] I would ask you at the beginning of this last chapter, Mr Van der Bellen – you know, I have always appreciated you – to: Let us try to discuss this final chapter on the ground and not to ask in the centre of our discussion whether the homepage of the Minister of Finance is designed and financed in this way or so! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I really ask you to be with us even in the face of the members of the Committee on Budgets of the German Bundestag, which today honours us. Let us give them a good picture, Mr Van der Bellen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have seen very clearly yesterday at the urgent request, what this strategy is going to do. The strategy is based on the fact that what has failed to do with the sanctions is now trying to remove what has not been achieved with the demonstrations and strikes, namely this government, by pouring a successful finance minister with dirt. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Oils: Think of the listeners!]] Mr Oellinger, I know what I am talking about, because I know you long enough. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you are attacking a finance minister like Karl-Heinz Grasser today, you are attacking a finance minister who is facing the following key points of a forward-looking economic and budgetary policy. First: Stability in the government budget. Karl-Heinz Grasser is the Minister of Finance, who for the first time led a turn in budget policy, of course with the entire government, but he stands for the zero deficit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The zero deficit of 2001 was the prerequisite for us not to be tumultuous in terms of budget policy despite the economic flaw we have worldwide. He has said again and again – and we are pleased to say this: Stability means a balanced government budget over the economic cycle. Federal Minister Grasser has actually realized this turn with the support of the entire government under Chancellor Schüssel and Vice-chanzler Haupt. That was the turning point in budgetary policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] So this is a cornerstone in the sense of a long-term strategy, also in the sense of the Lisbon process: Austria is expected to be among the top three in the EU in 2010. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] This includes not only stability in the government budget, but also – Mr Matznetter – I come back to your point – the second strategic direction: discharge of citizens and businesses. They have said that under Minister of Finance Grasser, the highest tax and tax rate has been reached in Austria. This cannot be disputed for 2001. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, if you are honest, Mr Matznetter, and look at the tax rate we are going to have this year, 44.3 percent, and if you only have a little bit of basic accounting, then you will know the difference between 45.6 percent tax and tax rate and 44.3 percent is 1.3 percent of GDP. And 1.3 percent of GDP is €3 billion, 42 billion are schilling to reduce the tax and tax burden in this year. That means: Reducing the tax and tax rate to relieve citizens and businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, you have referred to the tax relief of the unscathed profit. I say to you that I have been criticizing this arrogance of some politicians here in this House for a few years now, who say that we know better what businesses need. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] While companies say that the most important thing is to build up the equity base. They say no, that's nothing, the investment exemption is important. You know better!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mr Matznetter, this is not our view of policy. We ask those concerned, and they tell us for years that the most important thing is that small and medium-sized enterprises can rebuild equity – and we realize that. And this too is a historical act. For the last ten years, the economy has called for better tax treatment of profits invested in jobs. Who, do you think, is investing in jobs, Mr Matznetter? It is our small and medium-sized enterprises that, despite economic flaws, keep jobs to the extent that we have labour market data to which our German friends envy us, Mr Matznetter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you ask – and I say so in the presence of our German friends – why do we so often use the example of Germany: That's two reasons. Firstly, we are not economically as interconnected with any country in the world as we are with Germany. That is why everything that is happening there has a profound effect on us. And second, we have for the first time in the German-speaking area the comparison between two political models: Red-green there and black-blue here. And the comparison makes us sure, Mr Matznetter. The comparison makes us sure! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, you cannot wipe out this comparison with such loud calls! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In addition to stability and in addition to discharge, the third strategic approach is: Investment in the future. – I have often criticized in the past years of the former coalition that we invest far too little in the future budget. It is this government, it is this Federal Chancellor, it is this Finance Minister with whom we have for the first time in investment in research and development, in infrastructure, in the family – including family investment is future investment – increases of 20 to 35 percent against those budgets that a SPÖ Chancellor and a SPÖ Finance Minister could be responsible. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Who makes it wrong!]] [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: Where?]] Compare the numbers: Here, too, the comparison makes us sure! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Eder: More for the rich, less for the poor!]] That's why another appeal from me: If we take advantage of the final phase of these budgetary negotiations here in plenary, we are using these last two hours to discuss the country's future issues objectively and not to go to the dirty level! [[Abg. Oillinger: Here you are suitable!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13045	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13063	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dummful, you have recognized it correctly: I'm going to make a mistrust request. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Only he won't find a majority!]] This request is not malicious, but it follows from the management of the Minister of Finance, and this has only to do with his budgetary policy on a conditional basis. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: But we are talking about budgetary policy!]] It also has something to do with budgetary policy, but it has something to do with the management of the Minister for Finance. Similarly, I do not think that our colleagues from Germany are quite strange. I don't know if Minister of Defense Sharping was a good or a bad Minister of Defense; in the matter he is interpreting about certain things in his office or in his personal behavior. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Not all that limps is a comparison!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. We have a budget debate, we have the chapter on finance in front of us, here the Minister of Finance is sitting. As a result, it must be possible to focus on questions of personal office. I do not know if you have followed the debate, I do not know if you have read today's "Falter" with an excellent search. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's a weak evidence!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Now the “Falter” is already a piece of evidence, an official one?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I should just like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a Minister of Finance in front of us, the first of which is under the urgent suspicion of abuse of office, because he cannot keep a public office and his private interests apart. We have a Finance Minister, who is the second most pressing suspect of tax evasion – a Finance Minister! – both in his personal field and in support of tax evasion. Thirdly, we have a Minister of Finance in front of us who, under criminal law, may still have to answer for forbidden gift acceptance. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Crime is not allowed!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Fourthly, last but not least, we have a Minister of Finance in front of us, who for weeks has been suspected of having banned the Republic's largest procurement process. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: If the action is dismissed, where do you stand?]] I shall now only mention this last point; we all know what is meant. It is the interception hunters, the Eurofighters, that the Minister of Finance has not been able to explain for weeks why he changed his opinion at the last minute and has turned from the cheapest to the most expensive product. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: yesterday explained everything!]] We know all this in the room. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not careful yesterday!]] I would also like to say very briefly that the credibility of the Minister of Finance was damaged weeks ago, on the occasion of his budget speech here in the house, when he seriously tried to present us with an X for an U in several points. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Yes!]] For his attempt to present a net tax burden as a tax burden, the Members of this House must be quite stupid if one believes that they do not see it through. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The second point was the alleged additional expenditure on education and science of €800 million, which turned out to be a bad joke, namely as a mere increase in the balance sheet within the budget. – This is only for memory, and to characterise the credibility of the Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But the last days, the last week, have really clarified a new dimension in the administration of the Minister of Finance. In an unprecedented way, the situation, I think, has become more acute. I must allow myself to recapitulate this shortly, to recapitulate the facts as we know them today. First: Grasser, Minister of Finance, comes to the Industrial Union and asks for a higher donation. – This is not an invention, that is the statement of the spokesman of the Industrial Union. Secondly, The Industrial Union says: Yes, let's do it, and the industrial union pays. – It is unclear at what level exactly whether it is € 150 000 or € 250 000; this is not particularly relevant today. Thirdly, The donation is handled through an association, this association calls itself “union for the promotion of the New Economy”. – It welcomes the payment of around €200 000 for the industrial association. Fourth: We do not know exactly what this “unity to promote the New Economy” is doing today. What he has done, so if he has perhaps done something to promote the New Economy, is unknown today. However, the following is known: This association operates private propaganda for the Minister, namely on the private homepage www.karlheinzgrasser.at, “private” according to the statements of the Minister of Finance of this week and last week. The association has the so-called domain rights on this homepage of the person Karl-Heinz Grasser. [[Abg. May. Molterer: As far as the budget contribution of the Greens to the budget ’03 and ’04! Great!]] Mr Molterer, you will still be sorry not to worry about this story in good time. It's getting even worse. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Fifth, you open a bottle The Board of Directors of this association consists of the closeest environment of the Minister, those are his subordinates, his employees. They are employees in his cabinet, the head of the cabinet in person and other members of the Office of the Minister of Finance. These persons are the swallows of the incense vessel, which is called “Homepage of Karl-Heinz Grasser” in the business life. I believe that if you express this less poetically, the close relationship between this association and the Minister of Finance is so close that the Minister of Finance and this association are one and the same economically and fiscally. They're a unit! - I'm afraid, no! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: This is a bold theory!]] [[Abg. Oils: No, for sure not!]] I'm afraid that's not so cool. He, the Minister of Finance, gets the money. His closest employees and subordinates form the association that manages and spends this money. [[Abg. Großruck: “Subjects ” do not exist!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: There are no ‘ subordinates ’ with us!]] He, the Minister of Finance, leaves his rights, his highest personal rights in his name Karl-Heinz Grasser – if you like – to the association “Karl-Heinz Grasser”. Would you do that, Mr. Molterer? To an x-any club you don't have anything to do with your name? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You'd do that? – I don't think so! I wouldn't do it, and you wouldn't do it if there wasn't the most intimate close relationship here, which can only be imagined at all. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Also “Molder” is a good name!]] This association works for the benefit of advertising, for the exclusive benefit of the Minister of Finance and no one else. If this is not an economic and fiscal unit of association and person Karl-Heinz Grasser, I don't know what else! But the authorities, not least the tax authorities, will have to judge it. [[Abg. Großruck: Because there's nothing in there with the interceptors – now you have the grass!]] Whether advertising itself is effective in this regard or not, this can be calmed down. My personal hope would be that the almost North Korean inflatedness of this homepage would result in the failure of the Minister of Finance and Karl-Heinz Grasser personally. But that doesn't matter here. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: How do you know how North Korea...?]] What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? – By the way: If that is not a budget debate, I do not know what it is! It follows from this an urgent suspicion of the abuse of office by Karl-Heinz Grasser as Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's what you got!]] The association, which consists of subordinates and employees of the Minister of Finance – these are public servants! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Again “Successful”!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: We only have employees, not “subjects ”!]] Mr. Col. von der ÖVP, these are public servants who are paid by Austrian taxpayers, and they are responsible for knowledge and probably on behalf of the Minister of Finance's private advertising homepage. If this is not a mixture between public office and private interests, I ask you, Mr Molterer: Call me the next time, until the next National Council summit, a better example for the mixing of public office and private interests! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Secondly, There is an urgent suspicion of circumventing the so-called prohibition on employment. As we all know, ministers – by the way also club people – are prohibited from working; that means that a job-oriented activity is not allowed outside the narrowest ministerial or club-man activity, but is prohibited. This is intended to ensure independence from certain interest groups, and of course this is also meant to hold back the allusion, smell or suspicion of corruption – in principle a good rule! But if a finance minister lets his subordinates, his employees set up an association and this association manages subsidies – with the active support of the Minister of Finance itself – subsidies with the help of which nothing other than the incense for the Minister: this is not a circumvention of the ban on employment? – Otherwise, he would have had to finance these activities himself, to finance privately. He is opposed to the urgent suspicion that Mr Financier, the Minister for Finance, deliberately disregarded the ban on employment. Thirdly, this leads us to the next point, the urgent suspicion of aid for tax evasion. – Mr colleague, you do not seem to study the newspapers, nor do you study the APA reports of today. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: I think you're studying the newspapers too much! The “Falter ” Too Much!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: We have a law book!]] A society whose sole purpose is to produce incense for the minister is not to be charitable. Sure not, isn't it? - He's not non-profit! If the association is not non-profit, it is liable to corporate tax. Has this association made corporate tax declarations so far? – Today’s APA I take away: The "Agreement to Promote the New Economy", which finances the Homepage of Minister of Finance Grasser, has not yet paid any taxes. This is reported by Ö 1- “Mitagsjournal” on Wednesday, so today. The association has no tax number and is registered as non-profit. [[Abg. Oils: Super!]] Is that not known to the Minister of Finance? The Minister for Finance, who is responsible for taxation in Austria, is not aware of the principle of the tax liability of non-profit associations? He has not examined this in his own case, a case in which he himself is concerned? Apart from being here in a rather classical conflict of interest: Who decides on the mutual benefit of an association? – The competent financial office! Who is Chief and Supervisory Authority? – The Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance himself, who personally has a keen interest in the fact that this association retains the common good! You do not find that problematic, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ? Yes, earlier, when the FPÖ was able to do some kind of Zunder – in such a situation, there would have been something going on in the House! [[Abg. Ollinger: Robin Hood!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That is not worthy of him!]] Today you hide behind your notes and try not to hear that. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Fourthly, there is the urgent suspicion that income tax or gift tax is being withdrawn in the personal field of the Minister of Finance itself, because if payments from the Industrial Union must be attributed economically and fiscally to the Minister of Finance – and he is the only one who, as far as we know to this day, benefits from this €200 000; to whom should they otherwise be attributed in view of the unity between this association and the person Karl-Heinz Grasser? – then, of course, the question arises of the taxation of these payments by the Industrial Union. I'm not a tax lawyer. I consider both possible, both a tax relevance and a gift tax relevance. There is no big difference between tax rates. In the press there are already reports of financial lawyers, tax judges – Mr. colleague, you know that – who urgently advise the Minister of Finance to self-advertise him so that he is not affected by criminal proceedings. Fifthly, it raises a separate question, the question of forbidden gift acceptance. This is a criminal offence – not a financial act, but a criminal offence – and will undoubtedly be examined accordingly by the courts. I would just like to remind you that § 304 para. 2 of the Criminal Code does not require that the person concerned – in this case the Minister of Finance – adopts a non-compulsory conduct, but § 304 para. 2 even if the Minister of Finance acts in his own right, however by third parties, of another person either demands, accepts or can be promised an advantage for himself or for a third party. – So even if the Minister of Finance did not take any advantage personally, § 304 could take advantage because in this context the association is a beneficiary!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13525	Mr Van der Bellen, I am now putting off the voluntary speaking time after 15 minutes and setting the last 4 minutes legal speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13541	Thank you very much. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: But nothing has come out yet!]] - Yes, if you believe that! If that's not enough for you?- Oh, my God! I am now saving myself to discuss the role of the Industrial Union. The industrial association will, of its own initiative, have the greatest interest in a reconnaissance: Was she deceived? Did she know everything? Did she only know a part? – There will be a correspondence, an agreement and so on. This is also not relevant in this context. It is only relevant that the Minister of Finance is, first of all, on a kind of payroll of the Industrial Association as a representative of interests and that he has also blamed the suspicion of the abuse of office, tax evasion and possibly the suspicion of the forbidden gift acceptance. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I believe that this mixture of public office and private interests, as it seems to be typical in this case, is also a typical feature of feudal systems. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That's crazy!]] This is unworthy of a democratic republic! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The Minister of Finance has just said in my back: “This is crazy.” – Unquestionably, he means my words; I refer this statement to his behavior. [[New appeal to the Greens and SPÖs.]] If anyone is not willing to comply with the minimum rules of a democratic republic, then, Mr President, we shall not be left with anything but to ask him to resign. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] I therefore make the following formal request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I thank you for your attention, although in part limited.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13628	The motion for a resolution referred to in Article 74(2). Mr Van der Bellen's report has been properly signed and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Bucher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13649	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the German Bundestag! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are, as it were, in the final part of the budget debate. Today, we close the bag and decide on a direction-setting and responsible budget, which has been discussed very intensively in recent weeks and days, in which a lot of cerebral malt has been brought in and which will make a very big contribution for the further cycle to the Austrian economic recovery. But how unimportant these important budget-accompaniment laws are for the opposition, we have now had to see with great wonder, because Mr. Klubobmann of the Greens has not said a word about the budget-accompanied laws with which we have 91 laws to adopt. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: It used to be! Today the Causa Grasser was on it!]] [[New calls to the Greens.]] They have been hateful to concentrate on the Minister of Finance, only because he has further renovated this budget with a great deal of responsibility and with a great deal of expertise and thus contributes to the further positive development of the Austrian economy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: What does “hateful ” mean?]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] What if someone has a homepage, since we know that there is an increased communication effort in the present day? What if someone buys advice externally to achieve cuts in the budget, to benefit from savings potential? [[Abg. Mandak: Please go! Don't close your eyes!]] And what is it – I really have to ask you – if a finance minister in the representation saves half of what his predecessor has spent, ladies and gentlemen? The soup is damn thin that you gave in here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The mistrust you have filed today is also a mistrust against the government, you must be aware of that. That is why we will show a corresponding reaction. Our club will certainly not agree to this request. What your strategy is behind it is obvious: It is nothing but a distraction from a budget with a number of measures and laws that will relieve the Austrian economy, which will make an excellent contribution to the future of our country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If we see Austria compared to the European Member States, we also see that the whole of the European Union is in a sluggish state and that Austria can, by comparison, show clearly good data that makes us hope and courage that we can continue this competition in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The first stage of the tax reform therefore comes at a right time, at a time when in Europe economic dynamics the air is outside and we again need to set accents and impulses, economic impulses, so that the economy can get back in motion. At this point I would like to clarify the error of Mr Matznetter, who criticises the taxation of non-taxable profits at half the tax rate. It is important for us that businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, have sufficient capital to make small investments. You know that, especially with regard to Basel II, the equity ratio is one of the most important measures in competition. We are convinced that this capital formation will generate investment activities. This capital formation, the removal of the 13th. Sales tax dates as well as tax exemption up to an annual gross income of €14 500, ladies and gentlemen, will feel a total of 1.5 million Austrians. They will feel it directly in the wallets, and thus we will also promote and support private households. Overall, these measures will contribute to Austria's promotion of the economic location of Austria and the capital market. Ladies and gentlemen! This tax reform – I give it to you openly – comes a little late. We would have liked this tax reform for this year. But this is a sensible economic budget, which includes steering measures that ensure employment in our country and promote prosperity. That is why our party will vote in favour of this budget accompanying law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13755	Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance, spoke next. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13774	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I am sure that I have heard more than five contributions from Professor Van der Bellen. The one I have heard today is the only one in which you have not said a sentence, which I think you have heard out, to the budget, so you have not said anything in terms of content. I'll do it the other way around. I have decided to say a little more than 3 minutes on this matter and to speak 15 minutes on the actual matter, namely the budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Professor, I met you and your club members yesterday with Aristotle, with the Eastrakismos, with the shearing court that is going on here. I just can't find any other words. This is a campaign of fortification, as I believe it has not yet been discovered in politics – but perhaps only because of the fact that you were not affected yourself – with points of which I must say that I did not trust you that this would happen in your responsibility as a party observer. Today, for example, on the home page of the Greens – you are also using electronic communications – you have opened your own field and asked for “society advice in the matter of Finance Minister Grasser”. [[Lively calls to the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is crazy! The Greens are really the last!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: These are methods!]] That's what it says: “Please write Use the appropriate information in the following text field. This goes directly to Peter Pilz, and he will treat it confidentially.” – I know “useful clues” of “acting signs XY” and similar things. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I have to tell you, this is a search campaign that also disqualifies you personally! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am once again holding to the completeness of what I have unfortunately had to do to God several times in this House: It is not at your premise of the abuse of office or at your hold of tax evasion, nor at your hold of the forbidden acceptance of the gift, nor at the influence of the taking of the interception of any word true of what you say of all the incriminating restraints you have made. [[Abg. Oellinger: Reason this!]] I am proud of a completely correct and impeccable management, and I am sure that the independent authorities – and there we should leave it, Professor; and I hope that they will examine as quickly as possible – will then achieve such a result. Professor Van der Bellen, I hope that you, just as you have been ready to be committed and pre-condemned today, will also be the size – I am already excited! – will apologize to me. I'd like to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As a last sentence, maybe to an interesting phone call this afternoon in the secretariat: Ms. Elke Widner, a personal assistant or someone from the secretariat, in all cases from Eva Glavischnig, that is from the Green Club, has called and asked if the Minister of Finance is willing to participate in an event of the Women's Platform in autumn. – Obviously you don't believe so much in the seriousness of the mistrust proposal in your own ranks, Professor! [[Lively ironic cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I can get to the point. The double budgets in 2003 and 2004, which we were allowed to present to you with Alfred Finz, are future budgets, are reform budgets, are relief budgets. We are investing in the future of our country. We implement reforms to ensure our social systems are sustainable. We are continuing the administrative reform and we are taking the first step towards sustainable tax relief. You can be sure, ladies and gentlemen: This is the right way for Austria, a way that makes the workplace more attractive, which upgrades the economic location, a way that will bring improvements to the citizens, and a way, Professor Van der Bellen, who would deserve your trust. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mrs Glavischnig has it clearly!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Mrs. Glavischnig has the confidence!]] – Glavischnig has the confidence, says honourable Member stupidly. Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen! We have three main objectives in our financial and economic policy: The first point is still a balanced budget over the economic cycle. Second point: We start with the fundamental and sustainable discharge, with the first stage of the 2004 tax reform. Third point is a clear focus on more growth in Austria and thus on more investment in research and development, in education and training and in infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! It remains in a way that we say stability-oriented fiscal policy is very important to us. It has been referred to as the turning point in financial policy, and it is simply so that from the beginning we have gone a very clear way under Chancellor Schüssel and had a clear concept of financial and economic policy. We have said from the outset that growth in Austria is only about change. Growth, growth, growth, growth, growth, Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about structural change and not about old debt policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That's why we looked at ourselves from the beginning: What problems do we have? What is the need for action in Austria? After that, we scratched the sleeves and developed solutions to these problems. I can remind you of our first legislative period: University reform, privatisation initiative, additional wage reduction, child care allowance, employee care, clear priorities – simply the pressure on structural reforms for Austria. This is the way we continue in this legislative period. After a hundred days this Federal Government has been on the table: a pension reform, an administrative reform, a health reform, the first stage of the tax reform. I really ask you, ladies and gentlemen: When did an Austrian government launch such a reform shift? – There has been none so far, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is why I understand the concern that you have, namely the concern that you have the impression that if you exchange policy on matters against abuse, if you have nothing more to do with content, then you will become the loser of policy. And you are right if you believe that this federal government and the majority of this Parliament will be so attached to the population that they will say: These politicians have solved problems, they have made decisions, they have secured the future of Austria – a way that deserves confidence, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to point out once again, so that you can really see: What have we done in Austria? What is the starting position for the years 2003 and 2004? I was able to explain to you in the budget speech what the current account of the year 2002 is. You know, with 4.1 percent, we have the third lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. We had a record employment of 3 155 000 in 2002. We now have 3 186 611 people in May. This is more than 30 000 employees than it did last year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have a greater, faster growth both in 2002 and in 2003 than in the euro area, i.e. on average of the twelve euro countries. We grow faster than Germany, than Italy, than the Netherlands, than Switzerland. With 1.7 percent, we have had the third lowest rate of inflation in the European Union. Today the value of May has come: 1.1 percent! – You see, this Austrian federal government succeeds in a sensational price stability and thus in maintaining value for money for the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Exports, ladies and gentlemen: Last year's exports of our companies amounted to € 113 billion – a record value that has never been reached before! Trade balance: For the first time since the existence of the Second Republic, a surplus of €3.5 billion has been recorded. Current account: A surplus of €1.6 billion – and that for the first time since 1990! Almost 28 000 newly founded companies. – Also a record in Austria! This is an excellent current account. To this end, we can congratulate our enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises and employees. This is an excellent starting position for the 2003/2004 budgets in a difficult situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Budget figures are also much better than in other countries. We planned for 2003 a general government Maastricht deficit of 1.3 percent and one of 0.7 percent for 2004. The average in the European Union is 2.3 per cent – 1.3 per cent in Austria, 2.3 per cent in the European Union – and 0.7 per cent in Austria next year, 2.2 per cent in the European Union. The debt in Austria is very clear in the downward trend. You're still saying that's not good enough. I would like to say to you: Viktor Klima was still pleased in 1997 that he was able to push the deficit to over 4 percent. We stand at 0.7 percent next year. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! In 30 years you have not been able to achieve such values. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It was a clear way of consolidating expenditure, which enabled these results, for example by reducing administrative costs. For this period, we have committed €3.2 billion in reductions in subsidies, as well as reductions in interest payments. Conversely, it was our way of setting priorities, taking initiatives, increasing forward-looking expenditure accordingly. And here you know that we have set real priorities in the field of research and development, in the field of education and training. We discussed university funding more than once. I have told you more than once that the gross principle of budgetary rights requires exactly this presentation that we have made. Under the rule, Professor, 130 million € remain for the universities in 2004! And that's what we're proud of. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In total, as far as research and development is concerned – you say, it is not enough what we have achieved – we have made significant increases. I can tell you the comparison: From 1997 to 1999, in the three-year period ahead of us, a little over €3.3 billion has been spent on research and development. We spent almost €4 billion between 2000 and 2002, i.e. about €600 million more. This is an increase of 20 percent. We have launched the broadband initiative, we have made the study contributions subject to certain conditions. All of this will give impetus to growth, which will improve the competitive position. That's the right way. You can see it, too. World Competitiveness Scoreboard: In 1999 Austria was the number 18, now we are the number 13. – institutional investor: 1999 Austria number 16, now we are number 9. For EU structural indicators, Austria is already number 5 in the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I really believe that we can rightly say that we have achieved a lot, we are well equipped, but of course we want more. We have an ambitious balance sheet, we have an ambitious work programme, we want to be among the top 3 of the economic sites, the workplaces in Europe, because we know that site benefits mean investment is jobs. Jobs are income, income means security and life opportunities for Austria. And that's our goal. That is why we are now taking the next steps, for example, with the sustainable relief and the first stage of the tax reform, which we have with 1. Adopted by the Council on 14 January. And the burden effects, ladies and gentlemen, really speak for themselves. If we calculate the first step in tax reform and economic recovery packages together, we will have a discharge of €731 million in 2004 and €968 million in 2005 and €1 310 million in 2006. That is to say, the tax rate is going back in Austria, the taxes are being reduced, we are taxing small and medium-sized incomes, we are taxing small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is a very important goal of ours: for more growth, for more incomes, for more employment in Austria. We are on a good path that deserves your trust. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, we can rightly say: We have never left the course of stability-oriented financial policy in Austria. Let's look at France, we look at Germany: There is – unfortunately, I say from the European point of view! – Record deficits on the one hand and record unemployment on the other. This is the fact from which we should learn and recognize: Growth over new debt does not work, ladies and gentlemen, but it is only about consistent structural reforms. This is underlined by Standard & Poor’s, the European Union, OECD, the International Monetary Fund and many others. That is why I say to you: These are solid, forward-looking budgets that we present to you – good for the economy, good for the workplace, good for social cohesion in Austria. And that's the budgets that deserve your trust! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13995	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Moser to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14016	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor! Minister! From this speech, I believe that many things could be heard that sound like goodbye. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] The ÖVP has been happy too. You already gave me massive applause, saying: Now we're finally rid of him, the boy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Don't let the Gusenbauer applause turn to other applause!]] Of these three targets for a balanced household, nothing remains, although Minister of Finance Grasser has commissioned an opinion from Arthur Andersen of € 4.3 million – almost 60 million Schilling. He had to take these figures back today, but we also know that the deficit of 1.3 percent will go towards 2%. Point two to your remarks: The forecast for economic growth, which you have practically made a policy target, will be withdrawn by the Institute of Higher Studies in the next two weeks. So there is no rising economic growth, but rather a disadvantage. As far as Mr Grasser's expenditure policy is concerned, I would like to refer to something else: It is planned for 106 million € or 1.5 billion schilling in the privatisation costs of the ÖIAG companies for the next three years. You have to think about it: 1.5 billion schilling! What a joy for the dingy investment industry! They're already waiting for these orders, which they won't get anywhere else. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There's really a scandal going on! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Without any economic need, these companies are now being placed on the market with ÖIAG participation, in the form of: It's got to go, cost it what it wants. – This is actually the main starting point for Minister of Finance Grasser. Ladies and gentlemen! This time pressure leads to a dramatic reduction in the proceeds for the state. I picked this up for three companies – Böhler Uddeholm, voestalpine and VA Tech: If you sell it now immediately, it means a loss of revenue of € 350 million – 5 billion schilling! – for the Austrian state. People's power is being squandered, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this connection, I would like to point out another case. The ÖIAG Supervisory Board has a representative of a potential buyer of voestalpine, Mr. Wolf, the former employer of Finance Minister Grasser. It was also heard that there is a right of return for the Minister of Finance. – Mr Finanzminister! I urge you to stop this inconsistency immediately, otherwise you will come into further turbulence on a sustainable basis! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These two examples show that this minister's sage is dealing with public assets. Here the industrial base is destroyed and the population power is wasted. Federal Minister! What you're doing here is economic vandalism. Drag and run the consequences and own-privatisation!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14100	I learned in history that the vandals were not as bad as it is always claimed – but please! [[Abg. Neudeck: You've confused this with the sandals now!]] The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14134	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I think it was visible, audible and noticeable to all today who really understands something from the budget and from finance Mr. Karl-Heinz Grasser or those who have not said anything about the budget, Mr. Professor. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Van der Bellen? [[Abg. Neudeck: He didn't say anything at all!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Spindelegger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Not only did he say little, he didn't say anything about the budget at all. [[Call at the ÖVP: He left!]] I even think that he did not want to do this way of presenting himself, and perhaps not deserve it, because a horrendous personality – at least known to us so far – should not, I think, sink to this level. We are used to this from Mr Pilz's report. [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] But if a university professor, who always thinks that he is an economic capacity, knows what it is all about in financial science, and can speak precisely, does not say a single word about the budget, then I am glad that here on the government bank Karl-Heinz Grasser and Dr. Alfred Finzsitz! [[Call the ÖVP:Solte!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is remarkable that, as we hear, the Green Club is asked if it would not be possible to invite the Minister of State to an event in autumn because he is aware that he is successful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] Professor Van der Bellen! – He is not present, judge him! – I just hope that you will not sit here in the autumn and that Mrs Glawischnig will not sit in front of you. – I hope you don’t. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on the accusations and allegations against the Federal Minister: Not everything a professor explains must be right, because I say another could come and maybe say something diametrically opposite. Ladies and gentlemen! Obviously, the Greens have come to waste the so laboriously built argument regarding the Saab grips – it is said to be crashed. Now one is desperately trying to find something for which the accumulated material could still be used. [[Abg. Brosz: Isn't that embarrassing to you?]] On the budget and that's on the matter. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Arrogance comes before the case!]] – But then you are already lying, Mr Niederwieser, if you think that pride comes before the case! Don't tell me, that's why you're ready! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Niederweiser, you should go into yourself: What you have done today for education, education and these chapters speaks for itself. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing can be determined by each budget officer: Whether he is in charge of finance in a municipality or as a national financial officer, even as an association and institution responsible for finance, he is acting like the Minister of Finance. In case of demands and wishes, all are brave, the demands are immeasurable and everyone thinks that his group and his institution would be the most important and that even more resources should be made available. And on the other hand, they're all big on the spappers: Saving has to be, you have to save costs and so on. Only when you are affected by yourself will the applause become very weak. - We know that. Then everyone screams and thinks it's chaos. Ladies and gentlemen! This double budget 2003/2004 shows and secures future development. The facts have already been presented: It is a budget of stability and responsibility. I also propose an amendment by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, colleagues on the Government template concerning the Federal Finance Act for 2004 and Appendices (61 and 61 of the Supplements) as amended by the Committee's Report (113 and 113 of the Supplements). Mr President, I can agree to the key points of this amendment concerning this Federal Finance Act 2004, which I am seeking to adopt in second reading, in accordance with § 53 para. 4 to explain the Rules of Procedure and seek its reproduction and distribution to all Members. First point: For the Austrian Convention, € 2 million will be allocated to the exceedance authority. Secondly, the increase in public employment expenditure at the Public Prosecutor's Office by €100 000 as a result of the provision of additional three planning posts. Third point: Dosage of the hardness compensation fund of pension insurance established in accordance with § 291e ASVG with € 10 million. Fourth point: Covering the additional funds provided in Chapter 51 and further amending the establishment plan by providing additional three planning posts to the Public Prosecutor's Office. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to give your consent to these important amendments. However, I would like to do something that seems to me personally, as a local politician, to be important in terms of the 2003 and 2004 budgets. This budget means stability and responsibility. It should not, however, be forgotten the next priority that is ahead of us, namely financial compensation. – This one is at the door and is announced, and I ask for justice of office, Minister of State! There is nothing to be argued with today that the settlement of war damage after the war was so practically the starting point and would thus support and justify the different tax income allocation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It must finally win justice here, because financial compensation is a disadvantage and not for one the strong municipal tax revenue and the double per capita quota and for the other the burden of water protection, nature conservation, Europe's protected areas and all other recreational areas. – That’s not how it can last. This can and should not be possible in the future, and this will be more than clearly acknowledged in future financial compensation, Minister of State! Overall, however, this double budget is a very good starting point for the future years.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14301	The request of Mr Jakob Auerund Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann has been properly signed, explained in his core points, he is duplicated and is under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15202	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kogler. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15220	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the ÖVP:Do you still have topics?]] The Federal Minister for Finance has preferred to make it particularly easy once again and to put aside the reservations by referring to the courts. Don't worry about it! But he overlooks the essentials: The aspects, which are, at least, criminal, tax-related, or will be relevant, are not the only ones that stand in the room and which can be discussed. [[Call the ÖVP: Anyway!]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That's what the court will decide!]] Of course, the first thing about this accusation is something like that – that is hard for you, I know! – political responsibility! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The fact that you are not using your majority as a standard to prevent necessary investigation committees does not yet mean that there is nothing to do with it. They are the preventers of the Enlightenment and say there is nothing to explain. Go inside, then you'd be quieter! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Why is this a question of political responsibility? – Let’s recapitulate – this has not been addressed at all! –: Mr. Federal Minister Grasser, I still find it inconceivable and I would not have expected you to become one of your own and/or your closest employees – and not one of them! – represent interests with the intention and the question of pilgrims: Can I get something? I want something! - He gets something! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Who is “pillared” then? Don't do it! Don't do it!]] What does the Secretary-General say about this association? - We, the union, have a mission to carry out. [[Call to the SPÖ: That’s why “pillared”!]] This isn't even about the New Economy. He says this quite clearly in an APA message – publicly it is no longer: It is about fulfilling the mission of a liberal policy. Karl-Heinz Grasser is, at the time still in the FPÖ, the one who represents this wing there, and he obviously belongs strengthened. You have presented the “little man ” by the liberals on your posters! – That is incredible and incompatible! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You invite a minister you don't want at all!]] – This is the incompatible thing, and you should really be interested in all of this! If then – and this is the particular perfide of this affair – tax laws are clearly and deliberately violated and the Minister of Finance does not say anything again, then this is not even a flight forward, but it is a resignation, dressed in the usual self-marketing, with which one saves himself in the next day. But the next fat nap will wait there, I'm convinced. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] All of this is still bad camouflage, as I mean. One obviously knows the problem of tax liability, acts as a non-profit association, and writes in the statutes: not based on profit. Mr Federal Minister, if you do not know the status of the association, which would not surprise me, because yesterday you did not even want to know the domain exactly and who is behind this site, although she bears your name, I may inform you: The same section of the association status reads: To promote the New Economy, the association aims... – and so on – whose activity is not focused on profit. – We now know: have been promoted You and not the New Economy. [[Abg. Neudeck: But Grasser is more for the New Economy than you are!]] It is even a question of whether the association has fulfilled its purpose, but this should be considered by the industrial association, which is not so much our topic. The sentence before which the purpose of the association is described begins – it must be broken on the tongue! – in the words: May. Karl-Heinz Grasser! – purpose of the association: May. Karl-Heinz Grasser! That's how your work looks! That's inconceivable! ‘Mag. Karl Heinz Grasser has the idea of the New Economy...” and so on. – But the sentence begins with “Karl-Heinz Grasser”. This cannot be surpassed by inconsistency! I don't know why you're going to be like that. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Should it start with “Kogler ”?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Are you jealous?]] They wanted to save themselves from the tax obligation. I wonder, Has it been speculated that you will not become taxable if the name of the Minister of Finance is entered in the purpose of the association, since it is obviously not a non-profit association? [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Obviously?]] And you lock up against an investigation committee and refer to the courts! In reality, he is also ready to resign without a committee of inquiry. – There you can wall as you want! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They will still be happy if he quickly turns to § 17 – Dissolution of the Association. – He should do the same! [[Abg. Neudeck: Mr Kogler, envy is getting old!]] This is not only necessary for a long time, but, in my opinion, it must actually happen. I don't know what you're waiting for! Why Make You don't have any institutions that this association is finally serving its purpose, paying its taxes, or being dissolved – and right away? What are you doing? That's your club! What are you doing? - You're silent! Silence! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's just another finding for this: The Minister of Finance has so to speak inhaled his ideological credo – one could argue about it; this is allowed in politics – and he is now also physically. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The second non-budget speech of the Greens!]] Everything should be privatized! Only with him – with him! – it leads to an improper mixture of the “res publica” with the private, and that in an office for the “res publica”! And this is the unbearable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] He does not have the office of himself and for himself, he has the office for the public cause. And what does he do? – Your own thing! And the club is actually a wonderful picture of it: He's for the whole thing. You can't keep public and private apart. That is unbearable for any politician, but only right for a politician in such a sensitive office! The case with tax evasion, according to today's APA, with the tax evasion de facto admitted, is the best proof of this. I don't know what you're waiting for. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: On one sentence to the budget! We're still waiting for that!]] You can now comment on this, Mr Molterer. As you have said, it will still be a pity for you to do such a wall here instead of turning to the clarification of this matter. Mr Ikrath, I very much appreciate your professional contributions. You were one of those who asked me how this was with these Eurofighters. The Minister of Finance said one thing yesterday: The Mr. Manfred Bishop is not managing director of EADS. Yeah, that's right. However, we have always quoted Mr Manfred Bischoff as being the chairman of the board, i.e. the chairman of the Supervisory Board of EADS – but the Chairman of the Board of Daimler-Chrysler! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That's wrong!]] It just makes things worse. Another hopper to the front in the middle of the hole! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That's wrong what you say!]] That's not wrong! The point is that Mr Manfred Bischoff is responsible for aerospace technology and industrial participation. The point is also that Daimler-Chrysler has massive business relations with that group in which you originally started your non-political career and to which you – and you have never demented it! – have a right of return. Yes, how much incompatibilities do you want to get served?- Oh, my God! Now you're fleeing forward by saying he's not managing director. But that's not what it was about. It was about you having special contacts with these men before the type decision – and also with another. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That is wrong!]] Read your own statements, and do not always call in between! You also said that you had contact with Mr Aloysius Rauen. Who is Mr. Aloysius Rauen? – He's with Eurofighter, right at the company, and that's a division of EADS. That's going to be You don't wonder. – And no word on this accusation! It has been violated by any correct awarding practice, but you are silent and say nothing! That's important. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Ikrath: A sentence to the budget!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: No word for the budget!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: On the matter!]] If you consider the 2003 and 2004 budget to be ‘what’, I can say that a budget can only be drawn up crediblely in 2003 and 2004 if the Minister is also credible. This is obviously no longer the case, so that has been the case. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a strange logic!]] But I would also like to say something about the 2003 budget, but above all about the 2004 budget. The Federal Minister for Finance – which can happen; we had originally not dealt with this subject particularly reproachably – has made a serious signifiable mistake, and a real burden has been presented as a burden. Don't worry about it. But in the political and budgetary interpretation of your figures for the year 2004 you do the same. You're not just blatant, you're obviously still with full intention of shattering things. And that is what we are holding out to you very much as far as the 2004 budget is concerned. It is always said here that there would be a massive discharge of citizens. That's wrong! If the tax were to be taxed and taxed together, but in particular the taxes were taxed – because there are only some added; there are no fewer taxes, otherwise they would have escaped us – then – Mr State Secretary, you know anyway – we are coming to a massive burden, at least in 2004, about which we are now talking. We all hope that things will turn out in 2006 because then the delayed effects will take place. We never disputed that. But you stand here and say in 2004 there are net reliefs. In reality, we find taxes of several hundred million euros. What do you want? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Since you are mastering the art of referring to the gross principle, because you originally made the, as I am now saying, intentional mistakes, the resulting compulsorily demarcation of a balance sheet extension as a multi-investment, to sell as so-called focus education, it is not surprising to me either, when “THE women’s platform” invites you, because such a gifted self-adjustment and marketing person would like to win to the consultant. Maybe it's going to be. You need this job, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15632	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann is the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15652	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A young Member, young or at least part of Parliament's membership, has now made a new name as the SPÖ's budget speaker, Mr Matznetter, to the budget. And what's going on? – That the old idea of SPÖ is also arrested by a young Member, with a new name: first take away, first collect, then distribute – with as many distribution costs as was the practice practiced in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing has become clear to me today: why, contrary to its earlier views, when it was still a state-bearing party, the SPÖ is acting against the Eurofighters: as I mean, Federal Minister, only out of concern for you. After all, I heard a call from Mr Matznetter, who called for Karl-Heinz Grasser to take an example of ex-minister Scharping, ex-minister of the German Bundeswehr. Ladies and gentlemen! I have come to realize why the SPÖ is so opposed to the Eurofighter: Karl-Heinz Grasser should not visit his girlfriend with the Eurofighter if possible, just as it has obviously been the case with Sharping. However, it should be noted that this Eurofighter is only one-seater and that there is no such danger. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the liberals.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! By Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen was actually not a single word about the budget to hear about the finances. At least at the end, Mr Kogler got the curve and made a few comments on the budget chapter of finance. Mr Van der Bellen has given his main attention to the request for distrust and the accusations made to the Minister of Finance. In itself, Mr Kogler, you must already have some experience with your requests for mistrust. During the previous legislative period, you have considered a very successful minister, namely Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer, with a total of seven requests for distrust. All your accusations and accusations have been dissolved in air. So they were not successful. Their accusations were unstoppable! Now you've started a new attempt to get back to one of my successful ministers. Now try it with Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The main points of the budget have already been mentioned: Benefits in the field of taxation, relief, abolition of the 13th. VAT, the tax exemption of gross income up to €14 500, the half-tax for profits not collected up to a level of €100 000. I would like to add a few additional aspects in this context. The fact is that this half-tax rate is based on the fact that an average tax rate is determined, of course, also benefits companies that exceed the level of € 100 000 with the unclaimed profit. Similarly, the introduction of the tax-free gross income scheme of €14 500 also has a positive impact on slightly higher earnings, so that a total of around 1.6 million workers benefit from a tax advantage. Also affected by this – and this should not be kept silent – is one, as I believe, but high number of pensioners, namely about 650 000 to 700 000. In the field of self-employed, this scheme also affects up to €21 800 annual income. Ladies and gentlemen! When I think about the contributions that the opposition parties have made to the budget, I have to say: There was actually only criticism, but no proposals. And of course it is also a question of credibility. If one has had the budgetary design itself in the past, it is now a little difficult to give good advice, so to speak, from Saul's budgetary policy to Paul. It was simply a distortion of the facts, and one has constructed a load out of a clear discharge. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The level of tax or relief is certainly the tax and tax rate, which will fall in 2003 and will continue to fall to 43 percent, a measure that will be met in the near future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If the figures are counted together – and I do not hide the area that could be considered as a burden – this 14 500 € tax-free income, which amounts to approximately €400 million in a budget order, is half the tax rate for non-compulsory profits, which also amounts to €400 million, plus the additional wage reduction of €150 million, and I also charge the eco-tax, the energy tax to the extent of 500 million, and a reduction of €500 to 600 million due to the economic pact last year – with an impact this year – which is expected to take place this year, the overall relief in the order of a little over one billion. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Trust is important, and optimism seems quite appropriate to me in these budget figures. The mood is crucial for the investment satisfaction of companies and therefore also for economic success. These budget figures are the reason for me to be optimistic. Sickness, scandalizing, criminalizing does not help. Optimizism, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, would certainly also be appropriate to you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] These are empowerments, whereby counter-financing will be carried out on the basis of savings and/or additional revenue in the field of cancer aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15793	The application is duly filed and is therefore under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). A speech over 10 minutes will be withdrawn from his group. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15814	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As we are now in the final phase of the budget consultation, it would be very good to have the debates carried out in Revue. I noticed that, of course, especially by members of the opposition, more staff and more money were required in each chapter. This has gone through like a red thread: more teachers, more... [[Abg. Broukal: You weren't there!]] I was there very often, and I also heard the speaker in the Chamber. That's where you can listen. So more teachers, more judges and so on and so on. Similarly, like a red thread, one has not made any funding proposals, that one has never said how something should be financed – with one exception: that one should not buy a interception hunter. However, I really want to hear from the experts, from the computers in the opposition series: How can I use the alleged non-expenditure for interception hunters, which will only take place from 2007, to finance the 2003 and 2004 budgets? For me, this is a mathematical impossibility – apart from how to defend the state, on the question of security. I was very surprised by the spokesperson of the SPÖ, Mr Gaál, that even he is against interceptors, in general, not only against any types, but in general. [[Abg. Gaál: I explained it to you! I'm against your fighter planes!]] You have shown with your demands, with your debates, that you have not learned anything from the past. It's as it always was: One simply spends on spending-oriented budget policies and does not think about how to finance them, or about financing over debt. You'd go on like this! The population has found this out: The SPÖ and the Greens support an old budgetary policy: You spend it because you just need it. One has a certain picture in mind, but how to finance it all cannot be explained. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Gaál: Do you know the Vienna election result, Mr. Wiener ÖVP-Parteiobmann?]] We were not bad at the National Council elections; we were in second place and came very close to the Vienna SPÖ. She's had a little negative result. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, I would also like to say here, because it has been said again and again that public service is important to you: He's important to us too! We also make a confession to the public service here. He's very important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We need a public service which provides the necessary public services for the public. That's very important. But we need an effective state, we need a slim state, and there we can show what we have done since 2000. Since 2000, we have actually saved more than 11,000 non-retirement staff – not as before, simply freezing official numbers in the form that they have been transferred to distributed areas. We will save another 10,000 staff by 2006. [[Abg. Gaál: They're destroying jobs!]] Because you spoke to Vienna: For example, the municipality of Vienna has not saved anything at all during this period. It has also not responded to pension reforms and other measures in the public service. We have proven that we can bring about a slim administration. We have saved more departments, sections, units and the like. But – and now it comes – savings without performance deterioration – that’s important! – or even with performance improvements. Do you know the time difference between that when you ask for a pass today and earlier? – Have earlier You have to wait for weeks, today you can wait with the stopwatch. [[Abg. Gaál: That's not true!]] If you had previously made a tax statement to the financial office, you would have to wait for weeks for the notice, now you will already receive the notice the next day. [[Abg. Gaál: That's not true!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have, of course, invited external consultants to these services. This was a good money because we are in the process of changing our administration to New Public Management, and have also changed it. Over 50 administrative reform projects! There has never been such a shift in reform in the past. Over 50 projects! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] When I remember that at that time in 1995 Federal Minister Streicher spent a million schillings on the issue of "How do I change my travel expenses in the department so that it can run fewer jobs?", but then the proposals have not been implemented, I have to say that there is a significant difference. Our money was good! We can prove that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Over 50 reform projects! Up to 2006 there will be 1.3 billion euros in current cost savings. That's nothing. So far, more than 11,000 staff? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] More than 11,000 staff since 2000 – is that nothing? And by the year 2006 another 10,000 staff! So if that's for You are not proof, then you have not read the schedules that are now in the budget. [[Abg. May. Gäßner: Exclusions!]] [[Call the ÖVP: They read nothing anyway!]] This has also been demonstrated there. We prove that we are taking an administrative reform seriously. We are striving for an orderly household. Only an orderly budget, a stabilised budget, a balanced budget over the economic period is the basis for implementing necessary fiscal measures. That is also the sense in this period that, when enlargement comes, we can secure the economic location of Austria with tax reductions, especially at this time with tax reductions. That's a concept you've never enforced during your time. They have had a higher level of loads or at least equal levels. Mr Matznetter would like to take a look at how high the tax rate was in 1996, 1997, 1998 and compare it with today's. Clearly, we have lowered the expenditure rate more than the revenue ratio. This is our budget programme, which we want to continue until 2006, and we will continue to succeed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15999	The next speaker is Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16017	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Abraham Lincoln once said that one can keep some people to fools at all times and all people at times, but not all people at all times. Federal Minister! They arrived at this point, and you arrived at this point at the earliest when you made an ideological change, namely, leaving the Freedom Party and being transferred to the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Neudeck: He's not!]] This action alone testifies to character, testifies to strength or weakness, or proves that you always want to swim on the butter side. This is a very crucial question for me once to be able to judge a person at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this picture exactly this homepage fits in. You are not concerned at all with the population. You are not at all concerned with a particular party, about the ÖVP or about the FPÖ, but in this case you are always concerned about yourself. You want to polish your own image. They use the ministerial careers to get a good position in the private sector again. That's your goal, that's what you want. Mr. Minister! This is not a strength to work for the public, but it is a weakness to work for the public. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Austrian with commitment!]] You always say, and you said this again earlier, you secure the future with the budget. Yes, but I think you can only secure your own future here with all possible means. I am convinced, however, that these funds will not be sufficient to ensure that this will not be enough. If you have been talking about a reform budget and once again in a flowering language very delicately tried to keep us all at fault with what you have been doing for many months, then I can only say again and again that this reform budget, which you are presenting here, is actually a threat, because that means quite simply: burden the little ones and relieve the big ones. What surprises me is that the Freedom Party is participating in this, but no longer in applause, I've noticed, but she's still in it. Who pays the token in the final effect? – The tokens pay in the final effect all wage dependents in our country and the pensioners. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Also written to you once again in the main book, according to the motto that the Mohr has done his guilt: Read the newspapers of recent times, for example, the “Kurier ” of 8. June 2003, which reads: After critical parliamentary elections speculations about changing to the Greens. ==References====External links== May: Black-green, why not? Or Friser: “This cannot be estimated. So: A solid partner is not the FPÖ," she says in the "Standard" of 9. ==References== And that's how it goes. I only hope, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, that, after you have approved a burden budget here today, you will have to pay a double budget, which will also have to be paid for yourself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16081	The next speaker is Dr. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16099	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a new Member here in the House for the first time to pursue such a budget debate is a very exciting thing. We had a lot of words in these four days. It has been said a lot. There were two urgent ones and, as has been said, also a mistrust that is already called chanceless in the evening edition of the “Kurier ” of tomorrow. [[Call at the SPÖ: Don't be deceived!]] I have found that there is an opposition here, which has made little proposals. I mean, it's the right right to criticize an opposition, but I'd actually be interested in concepts, proposals and ideas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But what I found particularly interesting is the role of Mr. Van der Bellen, Professor of the Party and Clubman, whom I warmly welcome back here in the House after the break for smoking. Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, I would compare your role today with the role of the editor-in-chief of “daily everything”. “daily everything”, the newspaper, which no longer exists – it will probably have a reason – and in particular its editor-in-chief has very often bubbled around, that it has only noiseed so much. What the Minister of Finance had to listen to in the sense of “daily everything”, yesterday, today, I assume, even tomorrow or perhaps the day after tomorrow, is actually – and he has said that – something that the independent authorities should deal with. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Which “independent authorities”?]] That's what I'm gonna do. I think we should leave that to them. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Do you also address the matter, Mr. Colleague?]] But what I found particularly great: It is about a homepage, and the way in which your homepage has been designed since today shows that you yourself do not know what you should blame the Minister of Finance, for otherwise you would not have installed such a search engine, where you would ask for appropriate instructions in order to get tips in any form through a peak box, for which actually this mistrust request had to be made today: to divert from what the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State has already said today. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Our homepage is not financed by the Industrial Association!]] But I have also admired – and this is really exciting – the role of colleague Matznetter – now he is not there. He's trying to profile himself here, but I don't know why. Alfred Gusenbauer didn't deserve to hear that he wants to profile for whatever reason, that's quite clear. I think he wants to play a great opposition role as he does, and he should continue to play this role. Just as he always claims things and repeats them over and over again – it usually doesn't get any more right – I think that's absolutely unnecessary, but it's his good right. And the group that put him up probably deserved him too. In fact, I wanted to say a little bit to the nationalized industry, because one can fix that paradigm change that Michael Ikrath has already spoken about. Unfortunately, that is no longer possible because of this red lamb. Therefore, at some point in time, I will repeat these clues sometime later. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16192	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16210	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Dear Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Look It is precisely you, especially white, that the West of the Minister is not today, both in real, physical and in political metaphorical terms. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is a sacco, and the other is a shirt!]] The accusations are clearly and clearly on the table. Mr. Minister, you've forgotten tax, that's our suspicion. Mr Minister, this is not a matter that can simply be rejected by the hand, but it is easy to prove, well proven and to document exactly. [[Abg. Neudeck: Now let me down! You're so honest otherwise!]] Your homepage...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16250	Mrs. Dr. Moser! Professor Van der Bellen has always expressed a suspicion for good reason. I'm asking you to stay with me.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16268	That's why I put it in the back as a suspicion. We insist on that, and that will harden up. That is why I stress this once again. So under tax experts it is clear that you are taxable, either as part of the gift tax or as part of the income tax. There are even more accurate calculations. Since the sum of the homepage expenses is €150 000, according to Prof. Doralt – it is all to be read – you have certainly avoided a gift tax of €57 000, and this is not just a year! This will be further explained later. Minister, that's not little! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Minister, that's not a cardboard handle either! Mr Minister, I mean that this is more than an average annual income. This is almost twice as much as an average annual income of Austrians. This is what you have avoided from the state, according to our current suspicions, which, however, tend to harden themselves. Minister Grasser, it is a fundamental problem in every respect that you, in your neo-liberal attitude, are virtually doing this privatisation again and again. While you – for me, this is the strain in the debate – on the one hand strict for the reduction of the state, strict for the separation of state and private, at the same time you represent in your own person an immense refreshment of private and public functions and interests, and all this possible, I say now extra, at the expense of taxpayers. This refreshment is what we urge, and above all your lack of awareness of injustice. I do not understand that I personally cannot understand that you are playing out a pure conscience here – at times I have the impression that the aid of Mr. Federal Chancellor would be necessary, not just punctual – where it is clearly in front of us and clearly documented that it is simply incompatible, completely incompatible, what you are doing with your home page of self-representation and what you as Minister of State, as Minister of Finance of a Republic, have to present to a seriality. I notice – and it is already to be read in tomorrow’s “Kurier” – that even in your former family series there are clear doubts. Mr Martin Strutz, a Carinthian, so to speak, a fellow countryman of yours, let us know in the “Kurier”: “I am thinking for myself that although Grasser is taken to the ground by the opposition, the liberals are well treated. He has massively damaged the FPÖ and should not be touched with velvet gloves.” – Quotes. Please read in the newspapers what your colleague from Carinthia says! [[Abg. Neudeck: Once we should hear about Carinthia, not once! What are we supposed to do now?]] Take advantage of the possibility of finally drawing consequences on the corresponding support of the distrust request, consequences that would have to be in your own party interest! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why, Minister Grasser, I ask you again: Take the consequences personally before it's too late! You have, if you confess yourself in good time and show yourself, even better chances of living in the private sector than if you don't. That is why you take our motion for distrust as a sign that you must finally pull the line! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16320	I call Mr Neudeck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16338	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! When you see the last days a little in the form of a script: There was a urgent request from the SPÖ and one of the Greens. Pillow came out. In the case of these accusations, they were meant to have several aces in the Talon. Mr Van der Bellen is saving himself for days, you think there's a special stunt coming today, he's going to be here. One hears of a mistrust request. I'm of the opinion that two, three aces are being played out. What's going on? - It was a pictim! You can't play poker with that. What you have offered here was actually rather levelless. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And then another thing happens: There's a greenish motion for distrust. At the same time, however, Mrs Glawischnig or her colleague at the Minister of Finance asks for an appointment in the autumn of this year or next year – I do not know that –. I remember, Mr. Edlinger said he had to tear the phone out of the wall when he left the ministry because he didn't want this finance minister to call his daughter because the number was stored. Now I don't know if the colleague Glavischnig meant that Grasser, even though he should no longer be Minister of Finance, is interesting as a person for green women, according to the motto: Bauknecht knows what women want. Glavish knows that too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: signal of trust!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the subject. The objective of the budget policy in Austria in recent years has been to bring the entire government budget into line, i.e. not to spend more than the State is taking in, as well as to comply with the directives of the European Growth and Stability Pact. Between 1997 and 1999, as far as the starting point is concerned, the general government deficit has expanded from 1.9 percent to 2.3% of gross domestic product in two years. This was the second worst result in the EU as a whole. Despite good economic conditions, Edlinger and his Social Democratic predecessors in the Ministry of Finance did not start fiscal consolidation, while other EU Member States continued to consolidate public budgets. In 1999, seven Member States had already been blessed with a budget surplus. As of 2000, there was an end to the planless SPÖ debt policy. The FPÖ/ÖVP government took over the tax under difficult conditions. I can remind you: Debts of €163 billion had been left behind. I didn't hear anything about eradication at the time. One million Austrians were at the poverty line. The new Federal Government decided in 2000 to take a consolidation course with the aim of achieving a balanced budget within two years. The zero deficit was already reached in 2001, i.e. a year earlier than planned, and in 2002, the overall government's main deficit was 0.6 percent of GDP. This is a good interim balance, which can be satisfied in the light of the international framework conditions. Austria today is considered to be a stable and safe country. ==References== In May, so many people were employed as never before. With 4.1 percent, we had the third lowest unemployment rate in the EU, 1.7 percent had the third lowest inflation rate, and export growth was twice as high as in the rest of the EU. The double budget 2003 and 2004 of this Federal Government is a further building block and ensures that the path continues, and this path carries a very clear handwriting of freedom. Ladies and gentlemen! We are particularly concerned about the reduction of small and medium-sized incomes. Taxable persons with a gross annual income of up to €14 500 will no longer pay taxes in the future, so that about 200 000 Austrians will be relieved. In particular, this increases the purchasing power of small income recipients and supports the economy at the right time. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This budget provides for the targeted promotion of equity formation by halving the tax rate for untapped profits, which gives companies more scope, and it finally ends with the 13th. Sales tax date, which represents a relic of the SPÖ Finance Minister's money procurement area. I have now deleted the comparison with Germany, because the German colleagues are no longer there. Finally, I would like to address the Greens: I think you're gonna stay alone with your mistrust request today. – There is a SPÖ club boss from the Styria who is on a red-crust cost. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: No! What you're not saying!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who is this?]] I am able to learn and have taken my colleague Cap as an example. You have to quote more from the newspapers: Around 30 employees of the Red Cross local office Törl made vacations in Greece. [[Abg. Faul: This is an old hat!]] Wait, colleague! I quote: Nearly 190 €, i.e. about a third, there was a grant from the cash register of the Red Cross. The organization is called “Red Cross”, but this has nothing to do with the SPÖ! However, colleagues from the Styrian Landtag said: Red's good, I'll get my grant! [[Abg. Faul: This is really an old hat!]] It may be an old hat, but still not bad if you bring it again! I quote: The fact that a social-democratic top politician receives a travel aid from the financially agitated Red Cross stimulates the political counterparts. I would like to know what your colleagues in Styria said when we took this up! Now a discharge for the Minister of Finance: Do you know who revealed the story just mentioned? – It was not their own Red Cross employees, nor was it the internal revision. Rather, it says that the Styrian Red Cross was lit through by a management company and one found massive criticism points. So much for outside consultants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16451	Mrs Bures. The clock is set to 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16485	Mr President. High house! Mr Neudeck, I would like to ask you because you have also taken the ‘curier’, which is recommended as a reading, which is in tomorrow’s freshly printed ‘curies’. In my opinion, the result here is best summarized. – The tomorrow “Kurier” titles: “Austrians have less and less in the wallet. Inflation and taxes devour narrow wage increases.” I mean, there's nothing to add to it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Look at tomorrow’s “Kronen Zeitung”, Mrs. Colleague!]] This fits well, even if we look at the key figures of the budget in connection with the behaviour of this Minister of Finance. First: Austria has the largest tax and tax rate of the Second Republic with redistribution effects from bottom to top. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Secondly, Austria has an extreme downturn in economic policy. Austria is the final indicator of economic growth and the former in wage developments, and therefore real income is falling in Austria. Thirdly, The development on the labour market in Austria – and for that you bear the responsibility! – is dramatic! There is a massive increase in unemployment and youth unemployment. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: What are you talking about?]] In your responsibility alone, there was an increase of 44.4 percent of youth unemployment! [[Abg. Neudeck: Where did you get this?]] Minister of Finance, with your budget you are robbing the Austrians of their prospects for the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are the key facts of your budgetary policy! [[Abg. Scheibner: Please don't talk so fast, otherwise we don't understand you!]] The responsibility for this is also yours, Minister of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen! What else does this Minister of Finance stand for? – First of all, this Minister of Finance still stands for Friendly Economy from the property-friend Plech to the company-friend Hochegger. Secondly, this Minister of Finance stands for wastefulness. € 27 million was spent solely for any dubious consultation and of which € 10 million was spent solely on self-advertising. And thirdly, for a few days this Minister of Finance has also been standing for the suspicion of the forbidden acceptance of gifts from the Industrial Association to the Fashion House of Hilfiger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Mr Grasser, I believe that you have the responsibility to do so, even if the government groups are trying to cover it up. You have a lack of awareness of injustice. If you still have a trace of character, then step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16591	The next speaker is Mr Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16610	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Dear colleagues from the opposition, I have to tell you: I haven't experienced that kind of ignorance at all! This Minister of Finance has presented a double budget, which Austria will make very substantial in the next few years. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That people will be heavily burdened!]] This Minister of Finance was only recently presented by the most renowned international rating agency, namely by Standard & Poor’s, for his policy – as well as this federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Any major entrepreneur and any international group would be all ten fingers if it were to have such a rating as that Minister of Finance and the Federal Government have gotten! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Do you know why this is important? You know, Professor Van der Bellen, but it obviously doesn't matter to you! And you, too, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, know! Mr Gusenbauer has once, I believe, proclaimed a solidaric service company. These are very well thought out. He knows, but that doesn't matter to him either! Do you know what this really means for Austrian taxpayers? – This means savings in interest rates to the extent of three-digit euro millions in a year and sustainable of billions. That means it's for the taxpayer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] But you obviously don't care! What does that mean for the future of this country? – That there is again room to invest in future fields such as family, research and science as well as in the needs of the Austrian – but they are obviously too removed for a long time to understand this – such as in external security! You do not seem to understand from the opposition that now a paradigm change is taking place in the work of politics, because it is being done serious, hard, consistent work contrary to what you are doing, because you find your fulfillment in that you are pouring, slandering, bad talking, denouncing, criminalizing! I'm going to tell you something – and that's what the voters will write to you in the main book: The voters will no longer move you into the majority, because he will not believe that he will be able to march with you sometime into the new time or, despite Josef Broukal, in Modern Times. Rather, the voters will feel quite well taken up by us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] Finally, I'll tell you – no matter if you want to hear this now or not: You will have to hear it –: We are proud of this Minister of Finance! We are proud of him and his financial policy, his and his team's! We are proud of the success for Austrians and for taxpayers! And we are also proud that the Chief Economist of the Deutsche Bank wishes this Minister of Finance for Germany. We will not, however, give him up! We will not give it up because we are in charge of Austria and the Austrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16686	I call Mrs Mandak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16705	Mr President. High house! I'm not proud of this Minister of Finance! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It surprises me, Mr Ikrath, that They are so proud because this Minister of Finance remains guilty of answers here and today! Mr Grasser, the Minister of Finance, just as you owe us the answers to our urgent questions, remains guilty to us today too! In front of you is an entire wall of FPÖ and ÖVP delegates who do not do what normally makes a line of defense at football. [[Abg. Scheibner: We are not here at the stadium, but in Parliament!]] Rather, keep your hands in front of the face and don't want to see anything. You don't want to see what's going on here right now! You don't want to see the links come true, and that's the accusation you've got to make here and now: You have no sign of understanding that something is not right, but you block everything from the beginning in a wrap! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In my opinion, they go into a desperation attack and then use such terms as “screw, ” “trace, ”“ slander, ” “screw. ” – What you call dirt were the allegations and accusations that Clubobmann Van der Bellen has made here as a reason for our mistrust. These are facts and facts, however, which you do not want to see true! [[Abg. Großruck: Bring evidence, black on white! We've heard all this so far!]] These facts and facts remain in the room because your Minister of Finance still refuses to give a correct and honest answer to all these questions here in this House! The FPÖ has once acted as a party to expose the abuses. – Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! You're mutated to a party today to cover the abuses! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The FPÖ is a party that covers abuses and ensures that the truth does not come to light that the suspicion of tax evasion and suspicion of unlawful conduct – such as the acquisition of the Eurofighter – as well as the suspicion of abuse of office cannot be investigated! That's your political attitude today, so far you've brought it! [[Abg. Scheibner: We needed you to do this!]] I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, of the liberals and of the ÖVP: What must happen in order for you to finally assume your political responsibility and agree to a mistrust that stands here today in the room, which has its hands and feet and can be supported with facts and facts? Think about it again, you still have time to vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16787	Mrs Tamandl has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16807	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you listen to Mrs Mandak this way, you have the feeling that she does not want to listen properly if the Minister for Finance answers the questions of the Greens. [[Abg. Mandak: I listen very attentively!]] Listen, then you don't have to say again and again, your inquiries will not be answered! That is not at all true! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You always only rely on assumptions and have no evidence at all! On the other hand, we from the ÖVP and the FPÖ bear responsibility and make reforms for this country. [[Abg. Eder: You pull the money out of your pocket!]] You will always be able to recognize that on the one hand the specialists and those who really take it seriously, while on the other hand, the polemists sit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My dear colleague Mandak! Now I will come to the subject so that you know that we do not always polemize! [[Abg. Eder: You are unsocial!]] As a result of EU enlargement, cities and communities are exposed to intense site competition, but they are also responsible for appropriate facilities for their ageing population. There is a certain degree of equality and predictability of the revenue of the cities and municipalities due to the widespread scattering of the shares in the Community's federal taxes and the relevant economic dependence of the Community's own taxes. From 1990 to 2002, the income of cities and municipalities increased by an average of 3.9% per year. The Federal Government's payments to the countries amounted to 10.2 billion in 2002 and will amount to around 11 billion in 2003 and 2004. So the trend is rising. The Federal Government, in its government programme, has become known as a reorganisation in the sense of replacing the declassified population key by a new system of distribution. In this context, the hopes are focused on a task-oriented population key. The financial compensation will always be a compromise. However, the compromise will be easier to achieve if objective data are available. The experts are therefore required to build a corresponding data frame. But it will again be the responsibility of the city and community representatives to accept this issue and find a just and meaningful solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This practice, not to dictate the financial compensation from above, but to be designed as far as possible by those concerned, has nothing to do with the fact that federal government and countries want to withdraw from their responsibilities, but can be described as living subsidiarity and requirement in a federal state.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16886	The next speaker is Mr Dietmar Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16908	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I am not only an employee representative of VOEST, but also in the interest of the Austrians the urgent appeal and the warning to the Federal Government, popular assets in the form of those companies, in which the federal government still holds holdings over the ÖIAG, do not easily hide! Ladies and gentlemen! Only two days after the decision to purchase the billions of Eurofighter fighters began last Friday, 13th. June, in the ÖIAG Supervisory Board, the acquisition of funds in the form of the sale of shares in VA Tech, and it now threatens similar negative results for Austrian taxpayers as for the totally unnecessary sale of highly profitable Austrian tobacco in 2001. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] The average dividends of this excellent company of over 300 million Schilling annually now no longer cash the Republic of Austria and thus all Austrians, but foreign investors. In addition, this company's substance and capital are forever lost for Austria, and now the reduction of domestic jobs in Austrian tobacco is also beginning. Ladies and gentlemen! With his sales policy, Minister of Finance Grasser does not have the interests of Austria in mind, but he seems to want to please his patron Frank Stronach, as can be seen in the contract for the fighter aircraft, for example. Whoever observed Karl-Heinz Grasser in satisfying his vanity, how he spent 27 million tax euros on self-representation and advertising, must fear that the Minister of Finance will proceed with a similar ease in the further sale of Austrian parade companies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You shouldn't read accusations from the leaf!]] In the case of the Minister of Finance Grasser, ladies and gentlemen, it is to be feared that he has advantages for himself and others, but not for the employees as well as for the current owners of the highly profitable companies, namely for the Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen! The argument that the state is a bad entrepreneur only serves to ensure that certain people receive cheap large stock packages, such as the “FOPs”, which are the “Friends of Prinzhorn”, as a journalist once called striking. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== February 2002, Minister of Finance Grasser invited friends to dinner in the ministry, and that is the day when the Wiener Philharmoniker gave the ministry free of charge. Among them were Frank Stronach and his European representative Siegfried Wolf. Ladies and gentlemen! How can it now be assessed that, with the agreement of the Minister of Finance, who is almost selected by the Magna Group, is sitting in the Supervisory Board of the ÖIAG since June 2002, i.e. three months after this dinner, Siegfried Wolf as a representative of Magna Europe? – This is the same company Magna, which is well known to be interested in buying the VOEST Alpine. How do you deal with these conflicts of interest of Supervisory Boards? Or what interests are really involved in this, Mr. Finanzminister? [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Two points would have to be met by the Minister of Finance in order to get back to the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16951	Your speaking time is over, Mr President. I would ask you to formulate the final sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16967	Mr Finanzminister! Remove Siegfried Wolf from ÖiaG's Supervisory Board immediately – and then step back! My final sentence is: Ladies and gentlemen! A good day begins for all Austrians, for the companies of ÖIAG and their employees with the resignation of the Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16999	The next speaker is Mr Ledolter. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17017	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Some illusion is that a budget debate would be the competition of the better ideas, the debate on substance. But what the opposition parties do best here, ladies and gentlemen, is a truly modest spectacle. In the absence of their own ideas and lack of their own approaches, the SPÖ is essentially disputing only those things that are very well taken up in the government and for which there are proper and clean solutions. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Of the Greens – that even meant President Fischer – there is only more suspicion. I notice that there is a suspicion in the Green Policy – suspicions that are supposed to conceal the fact that there is no longer much else. I have a problem with this, ladies and gentlemen, because the budget is okay from the diagnosis. The work for the country is good. We have a ministry that has something left for small and medium-sized enterprises – for the first time for periods. The Greens, however, know nothing but to set up a pointed box. This is not only an expression of helplessness, but also a special perfidy, as I mean. But there are parallels in Lower Austria. There is also a great head of state, a good policy for the country, and there too, the Greens are trying to call the people to join forces and to introduce submissions in a way that is similar to that in this Republic and probably in Europe too, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a process that is incredible, and I ask you to: Return to a reasonable work!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17064	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17082	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Grasser, Minister of Finance, spoke of the fact that he appears as in “actmark XY... unsolved”. I believe that not only “XY... unsolved” is a problem for him, but also “xxx... unsolved” is still a problem that will continue to concern Mr Finanzminister over the next few weeks and months – depending on how long his product life will last here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that these consecrations of the colleagues from the government groups are, in part, really a result of the ‘fresh’ of the presence in this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Controller.]] I only refer to colleagues Ikrath, who is deeply impressed by the currency gains that the Austrian government debt agency has succeeded. [[Abg. Neudeck: What about the HVB shares?]] I would just like to say to you, Mr Colleague: This agency has been in place for a very long time, it has been set up by Social Democratic Finance Ministers and has always been very successful. These billions of profits you are talking about are only virtual, do not really affect in practice and are not really effective in the budgets for taxpayers. [[Abg. Neudeck: What about the HVB shares?]] Only a banker can talk about it like that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Controller.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The budget for the years 2003 and 2004, the You want to talk sweetly, is already no longer a maculature, and you know that, due to the economic development and weak demand in Austria, these budget data cannot be kept at all and that the re-indebtedness of Austria will be much higher at the end of this year than it is currently. A comment on the comparisons, on the little ambitious efforts to compare with Germany and with the German situation. [[Abg. Neudeck: Are we coming to the HVB shares now, or is that unpleasant?]] I do not really believe that Austria, which can operate without Hungary and without Slovakia, should be compared to Germany if one wants to act at least a little serious, where a large-scale conservative government at the time is responsible for today's situation. [[Abg. Neudeck: What does HVB mean? Today's missing budget!]] An interesting article on page 2 of tomorrow’s edition of the “Kronen Zeitung”: It argues that Mr Grasser, as it were, would have committed more or less a cavalier offence with regard to this €200 000 for this association. It is argued that Parliament clubs would anyway receive living subsidies from various stakeholders. In any case, I know from my club that this is not usual, that there have been living subsidies from the Chamber of Workers or trade union or anywhere for the SPÖ club. It is really interesting and questionable which factions have been given here in the past by various institutions. [[Abg. Neudeck: That means, the people of the Chamber of Workers who are here do not live!]] – There has been dutifully settled. There are benefits and benefits for this, and therefore this is not a living subsidy. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the product life of Mr Finanzminister, but also the product quality of this budget, is not really impressive.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17190	Mr Neugebauer has now come to speak. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17208	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I support the efforts of the Ministry of Finance, which took place on 1 January. In July 2002, KIAB, i.e. the control of illegal workers' employment, set up. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to ask the Minister of State not to let go of it and to give gas on this question so that we do not endanger those businesses that work cleanly by the shadow economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that there are currently tax outsiders in total of €6 billion. In the long term, one knows that one third is effective. Federal Minister! Give gas in this question, there's money on the street! Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we are carrying out a reorganisation in the Federal Ministry of Finance, and there is an efficient use of labour. Thankfully, we have been able to better assess jobs. We will also come together on the question of how we can guarantee the internal representation of interests in new structures. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to address all of you because I have registered with interest that no speaker or speaker would have missed out on thanking the staff of the Ministries for their work. I've registered this with satisfaction. However, I would ask you not only to leave this thanks to the public officials in this House, but also to express them outside at the meeting. I think the colleagues deserved this.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17250	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Dr. Bauer. Speaking time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17269	Mr President. Mr Minister and Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to ask what kind of budget this is, which does not result in sufficient economic impulses. The forecasts are even revised downwards! What kind of budget is this in which social cohesion is getting worse because of an unprecedented act of scrapping? The newspapers of tomorrow write that the Austrians will have less money in the wallet. And that is exactly what characterizes this entire budgetary situation and economic policy. What kind of budget, ladies and gentlemen, is this where the total reliefs and loads look such that there is a very one-sided burden budget? If you continue to write down the years until 2006, it is recognised that workers will be severely burdened, while entrepreneurs and self-employed will be relieved. To sum up, there will still be a burden of almost €500 million by 2006, with workers being burdened with 684 million. That is to say, it is a conservative budget – therefore it does not surprise me that many of the ÖVP are very satisfied with the budget – in which a clear policy is made for individual groups, with those who are socially weaker being burdened more and more. The negative distribution effectiveness is very clearly passing through the entire budget, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Neudeck: What bothers me most in the budget is the interest we pay!]] It's an old call. It is true that a recording has been cancelled in about ten years. If they had not taken up the others, there would no longer be any debts from that time. But I'd like to say something completely different. Something really surprises me: Historically, Austria was taken over by SPÖ in 1970 in a situation in which the country was in the lower third in terms of prosperity compared with the states of Europe. Then after 30 years we achieved the third position in the welfare comparison with all the EU countries. However, after only three years – 30 years we have needed it until we have worked on the third place – this federal government has achieved that we are again in the lead with regard to the development data, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That's the real surprise for me that you bring this together in three years! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Why are you yelling like this?]] From a historical point of view, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the following: The ÖVP ruled from 1966 to 1970. [[Abg. Neudeck: Your colleague, you don't have to scream like that, Princehorn isn't here!]] Austria has not taken any good development. You know what this is? – Now they have been ruling again for three years, and Austria is in a very bad development phase. At best, the liberals are only a silent partner for the ÖVP, but no longer a party. [[Abg. Scheibner: Eh clear! What about the SPÖ Lower Austria?]] Therefore, the ÖVP has preferred a single government with you as a silent partner of a stable solution. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why are you standing there and not in Lower Austria? You'd be a good councillor!]] What is very bad, ladies and gentlemen, is quite different: It is said again and again that the opposition is uncertain. You know what you're doing? – On Monday, the liberals announce opposition to the pension reform or do not agree to it. That's not an uncertainty? – You will bring it back! [[Abg. Scheibner: What kind of uncertainty is this?]] Second point: The Freedom Party in Carinthia calls for an investigation committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] All this, ladies and gentlemen, is insecure and unworthy of a government party!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17397	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Dr. Brader. Speech time: 2 minutes. Second word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17415	Mr President. Mr. Minister and Secretary of State! Yes, Mr Bauer, I give you the right to: It is a conservative budget. We want to keep the good. In the field of education, we have achieved a really good budget, and we should keep it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Alfred Brader, you shouldn't say that!]] I can remind you of the following: At €8 240 million in 2003, the Federal Government made almost a quarter of a billion more available for education than in 2002. In 2004, the education budget reached the highest share of the total budget of almost 14.5 percent, as measured by the expenditure of all ministries. And spending on teachers in higher schools will rise by more than €60 million. I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, this is proof that this government is serious about education and that there are also budgetary conditions. The idea offensive will continue with the “computer billion”. The funds for this will be increased to €36 million. From the 2004 budget, €72 million will be targeted and project-oriented with the "Education Innovation billion". And there is also planning security for science and research, which I like most about the world as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen! We should take the matter seriously, preserve the good and give this budget our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17458	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17476	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! 3 minutes are very little for this topic. I would, however, like to return to the budget following the remarks made by my previous speaker on the educational chapter. A comment on the half-rate tax on the profits not collected, mentioned here: I believe that the SMEs, which in fact form the backbone of our economy, should not be exposed to sand in this regard. Mr President, you have, among other things, also spoken of tourism. A few years ago, together with experts from the Chamber of Commerce, I developed the balance sheet statistics of the National Bank's Austrian tourism companies in a very cooperative way. At that time, for the first time scientifically, we discussed the average negative equity of this sector. It must be said that this half-rate tax, which is now being preached and which actually seems to be the only measure to pursue an anticyclic budget policy, will not bring tourism to 90 percent at all, because 90 percent of tourism companies do not have any significant profits that could be left to stand. You should also mention that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: What do you want? Do you want to tax losses?]] For example, one could take the money and insert it into venture capital funds, as it has already happened, which have brought essential things into tourism. One could strengthen the promotion of tourism cooperation, knowing that if you submit applications now, you will at best receive a negative decision in 2006. That's how it looks in this area! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Put the charges up neatly!]] That is to say, you will not be able to make any contributions to the European Union's Lisbon strategy either, because in reality there are no measures to actually pursue an active labour market policy in this area or to actually promote SMEs. Mr Landespartierobmann Finz – who is currently talking to the Minister for Economic Affairs, which is, of course, permissible –: If you are constantly looking at Vienna, which, of course, is perfectly correct for you as a state party, then you should not forget that Vienna is a non-insignificant part of the alleged successes you are putting out, because if Vienna did not produce a Maastricht-related surplus for the third time in a row, namely, € 324.8 million, you would look even more pale on your budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I consider the procedure to be grateful on the one hand that contributions to the own budget will be made, but that on the other hand, as the party chairman of the ÖVP, you are constantly beating Vienna, said to be a shame.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17544	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17562	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Of course, on the basis of my civil profession, I would like to draw particular attention to the tax changes in recent years, especially from 2000 onwards, not least because the opposition always occurs with the accusation that nothing or too little has happened in relation to tax relief. Ladies and gentlemen! I recall the first economic package to introduce an increased depreciation rate of 7 and 10 percent, which was subsequently extended until the end of 2003. I also recall the second economic package that we decided in autumn 2002. I would like to recall the reliefs for apprentices in the area of additional wage costs, in particular by the removal of accident insurance contributions and by the removal of unemployment and health insurance contributions to two years. In addition, the second economic package supported older workers in particular, just to give an example. And I do not need to mention the tax advantages that we have decided under the Budgetary Support Act. They were, I think, discussed here in epic latitude. However, I would like to be brief. Focus on the innovations in administrative technology within the financial offices. There it was greatly extended to computer support. I remember that it was very important not only for the citizen, but above all for us tax advisors to be able to use the "financial online" system. It is precisely these institutions that bring tremendous relief to all taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17596	Mr Marizzi is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Second word: 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17614	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stumvoll said at the beginning of his debate that one should now deal with questions of the future. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. You know that we Socialists were never against meaningful privatisations. I have experienced how Schoeller-Bleckmann sold a company around a schilling, which has now been sold to the Spaniards by 700 million Schilling! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. This is the case in the Husch-Puff procedure. They all know the objectives of the ÖIAG Act: as high as possible as possible as possible, secure jobs in Austria, achieve revenues for the owner of the state, take into account the capital market, where possible, the centres of competence in Austria. This is about federal assets, it is about the property of all Austrians, who are now to be sold with your measures at the coffee table in the summer closing sale! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let's take a look at the VOEST! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, I don't have time to answer you, but let's look at the VOEST: If the VOEST is filed, she's bought by anyone and there's no Austrian investment – Mrs. Fekter, you don't know yourself! – then he buys the technology, the branches and gives everything else off. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: A success story!]] Get out of here with the jobs! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That rebuts that...!]] You know very well that there are negative scenarios that of these 16 000 jobs perhaps only 4,000... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: How many jobs...?]] You are responsible as the Upper Austrian, Mrs. Fekter! Please read today's issue of Director-General Strull and look at it carefully! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You're selling everything on the market! Back to the budget. The “profile” states: “The zero deficit has been achieved: one time, and that’s all wrong. Meanwhile, with its budget deficit, the Republic is now almost where it was under climate. The tax rate is higher.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17689	Mr Wimmer is now speaking at 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17708	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! They decide today on the most unsocial budget of recent years! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[He-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] The expenditure shall be deleted, shortened and saved. You are inventive in revenue, yes, I even say: You are reckless, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! When I think about the pension reform that you're putting beyond people's minds, when I think of the non-social restraint, when I think about energy taxes, I have to say: [[Abg. Grillisch: That's ridiculous!]] They have the weakest of society in sight, creating a lot of injustice and suffering. You will have to take responsibility for this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Now to your privatisation policy. It has already been mentioned that the VOEST Alpine should be sold. I'm saying this is negligent! This company is strong, innovative, delivers dividends and secures jobs. I am excited about how the Upper Austrian head of state will behave. He reported something quite different from what the government is up to. The VOEST Alpine is actually a hanging sign, we should be proud of it. This company for sale is bound by madness! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also saying this because there have already been very unreasonable examples in the past. Austria Tobacco AG has already been addressed. The ÖIAG has received 10.6 billion schilling for this. Today, of course, among other names, this company delivers 80 million British pounds under another owner. Ladies and gentlemen! The ATW were donated, the Republic was deprived of money. That's how your policy looks! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, in press releases, we read that exactly this English group releases 5 percent of staff, that there are 5 percent cancellations. This, of course, also applies to Austria with 100 employees. This is not the economic policy we are imagining! That's a hustle and bustle, that's a grant of public property! I'm saying this quite openly. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! We Socialists will oppose this policy. They will still feel us, because we will fight this privatisation together with the people concerned. Federal Minister Grasser! To conclude: You know what? – Celebrate still beautiful festivals with good music in the Himmelpfortgasse as long as you want! Let me make two or three more homepages of the Industrial Union! You have good sponsors. Continue to wear beautiful, affordable free suits from me, Mr. Federal Minister – but please leave your hands by the ÖIAG, in the interest of the people employed there!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17787	President. — The debate is closed. Mr Klubobmann, you still have 9 minutes of speech, and you want to take advantage of it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17806	In tomorrow’s issue of the “Kronen-Zeitung” we read the totally surprising message: “Cushion is full of grass!” - Someone's got to be behind grass! [[Demonstrative continuing applause with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freemans.]] You don't need to prove that you've had an applause training last week. When I think of the applause of last week, when no applause at all came from the ÖVP, I conclude that in the meantime some motivation seminar must have taken place, because that was not the case last week. You have to find out, but good. [[Mr Fekter and Mr Kopf.]] But someone has to stand behind Grasser, otherwise he wouldn't be Finance Minister anymore. You've got to find out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In this interview in the “Kronen Zeitung”, the Federal Chancellor also speaks of a “most successful and professional finance minister”. [[Demonstrative continuing applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Yes, at the ÖVP.]] – I believe that you will also complain of your own ruin by the ÖVP. That's nothing special. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] The “Economic Sheet” stands out as follows: “With these tricks, Grasser saves his budget.” Then Georg Wailand writes in the “Kronen Zeitung”: “... therefore, the budget figures I have now presented will not keep.” – Then there will be criticism, even in view of the fact that economic development will not last. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] A ‘Kurier’ title is: “Austrians have less and less in the wallet. Inflation and taxes attenuated narrow wage increases’. I'm asking: Where's the success of the Minister of Finance you're suing? What did you complain about here – except for yourself and probably your political downfall if you link your fate with this Minister of Finance? [[Abg. Lentic: wishful thinking!]] This is an absurd attitude that you have taken here, which does not correspond to reality! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Then Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel says – and so the whole thing becomes more and more a case bowl and not just a case of Grasser –: [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Please go!]] The Industrial Union makes it clear that it has made subsidies and subsidies here to the private home page of the Minister of Finance. – And always connected with it is: We didn't do that for nothing, we were expecting something for it! And here, Minister of Finance, Grasser, said there were private sponsors. And here, Finance Minister Grasser said that the advertising campaign did not pay him personally or the taxpayer. And here he said that the Chairman of the Board was his interlocutor. He said all of this here in plenary, not the “evil” opposition that has developed a “pollutant dome campaign”. Here he said that! On the basis of these statements, what the FPÖ Carinthia calls for is more than right, namely that there should be an investigation committee. It is more than right to file a case-law with the Public Prosecutor's Office. I guess you can say that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr. Bundeskanzler also refers to this homepage problem in the “Kronen Zeitung”: “There will be a mosquito inflated...” So: Presumed gift acceptance, suspected abuse of office are a “must” for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany! Clearly, he is very eager to link his political destiny with the political fate of the Minister of Finance. We don't want to stop him from doing that at all. That is what he should do, because the fate of the Minister of Finance tends to end. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But the best thing is that in this “Krone” interview, the Federal Chancellor is now trying to re-interpret the talks with the EADS Supervisory Board chairman, Bishop Bischoff, as an initiative for job creation, saying: They talked about counter-businesses, never about airplanes. No, no, no, The counter-businesses can only be discussed without the aircraft, without the Eurofighters being produced by the Group. – Say: How stupid do you think we are?- Oh, my God! That's inconceivable! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you: Of course, the planes were talked about, of course they were talked about! And of course the subject of an investigation must be the subject of an investigation, and of course the subject matter is the subject of a statement of facts. And, of course, criticism must be made here. It's not just a dirty dome campaign, as it's claimed. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] No, no, no! This is a legitimate criticism to be made, which is to be discussed here. I wonder why you're here in front of the Minister of Finance. Why is that so? When I look at the individual appeals at the FPÖ, I think they will know a little more about the Minister of Finance. Finally, he was with them once. They can probably tell a little more if there is a corresponding investigation in a committee of inquiry or if one of the prosecutors may carry out preliminary surveys. There is an interesting discrepancy; perhaps it is linked to the fact that the industrial association, which is not just far away from you, is quite involved financially and politically, so that this Minister of Finance remains Minister of Finance. It has, I believe, neither pre-conception nor anything else to do with the opposition here in the house, that you should actually investigate. This is not as obvious as you present it here and as the Federal Chancellor tries to play it down here in his usual speech and even connects it to himself. That is why I say to you: There are responsibilities to be clarified! You, Mr. Finanzminister, should not just wipe this away and not with any jokes and with played... This is the new "krone" line: Grasser is criticized, stands at the golf course, lets it hit and plays the Teflon man. Last week you looked quite differently: wretched, thin-skinned and not like one who really is critical. But then, after a lawyer wrote you the answer of the Dringliches, you just got over the rounds here in the plenary room. This was an idea of a Minister of Finance, which Austria can give up. I can tell you that! [[New congratulations to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Of course, this was your attempt to flee somewhere and say: Let us not keep talking about the abuse of office, the acceptance of gifts and the evasion of taxes. – Of course, it is unpleasant for you to talk about it. But the Minister of Finance has formally pleaded that this is the subject of urgent questions. He has run out and opened himself here and has given us an insight into the financing of his homepage. He was! [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't criticize that!]] He expressed himself in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, he gave the answers here. He has produced himself here, not knowing what this may have to do with consequences, because he has obviously not dealt with the Austrian legal order at all. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yesterday you said he didn't say anything!]] Because he doesn't know her at all, he made himself here and suddenly began to speak – thank you! Thank you, Minister of Finance, continue to speak. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yesterday you accused him of not saying anything!]] [[Abg. Steibl keeps a copy of the “Small Newspaper ” up to date.]] It's usually so, there's an old saying that says: One loves the betrayal – the saying is addressed to the ÖVP, not to you, Mrs Partik-Pablé – but not to the traitor. – The fact that you are now beginning to love the political traitor is your thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18012	Deputies! I would ask you to take back the expression “political traitor”!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18036	However, this is a term that applies to this process when someone changes the party and the party he was in is again dissociating with such faces as today, that is, critically dissociating. You have to say that. [[Unrest in the ranks of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But last time you got him...!]] But if you make and say, yes, we want to ignore all of this, that's your thing. If for you the allegations of the abuse of office, the acceptance of a gift, the evasion of taxes are not allegations, you wipe them away, re-amend them, praise them, blow away, if there is no such thing as that for you, so do it calmly! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What about the flights from Vranckky?]] Imagine the voters and voters, the Austrian and the Austrians and represent this policy! I'll tell you: This is an expression of a decline in political culture! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: From you always come only dirty accusations!]] This is not worthy of this House, nor is it worthy of your history in the ÖVP – I would also like to tell you – that: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Greens]] You're blind here with a person's license and you're defending the Minister of Finance in the way you do. I can only say: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18114	Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Green speaking time: 8 minutes. He wants to exploit them. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18132	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! In his speech, the Minister of Finance addressed the Greens' homepage and called on us to give us instructions on Minister of Finance Grasser, as – literally – “needing”. Mr Finanzminister! The Internet and, of course, the New Economy are very fast-paced. That's why I also need to correct you: Unfortunately, we had to take back our restriction on your person and extend it to all members of the government. On the homepage it says: “Look! Schnappchen, Discounts & Sponsors for Ministers.” And in the subtitle it says now: “If you know more about strange associations, generous sponsors or cheap men’s shoes in the government area, please let us know. The notices shall be treated confidentially.’; [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Spitzel!]] If there are three government members sitting here who either have or have to do with discounts, private transactions or the mixing between political and personal functions, this is a clear indication that it is not well ordered about the political culture in that country. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you one thing: If you here raise the accusation of political abuse and do not even know that the ÖVP has installed two letter boxes in Lower Austria, namely the regional councils of the ÖVP, and describe the process of the Greens as unique or as a nuisance, then I really wonder: What about your credibility as a party as a whole? Two regional councils of the ÖVP have installed political letter boxes, where confidential and anonymous notes are received. But let us not stop with political credibility, ladies and gentlemen, but let us move on to the political culture. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have said – and this has already been quoted by Mr Cap – that “... I do not allow methods of dirty electoral struggles in the USA to enter us.” Yes, Mr. Federal Chancellor, what you said? – In the United States, a case like that of the Minister of Finance would not be possible. There is a criminal law section – unlike Austria – which clearly regulates this, which is the section 201 of the US Code, which is called “Bribery, tomb and conflicts of interest”. Purchasing, lubricating and conflict of interest are dealt with in this criminal law section. The Republican majority leader of the American Congress, Mr. Newt Gingrich, had to resign because he used funds from a tax-free organization to deliver his political goals. . We have a Minister of Finance who wants to apply his personal goals with tax-free funds. That's the difference! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl keeps an issue of the “Small Newspaper” up-to-date and refers the speaker to the headline on the cover page with the content: “SPÖ club boss has gone to red-cross costs”.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Excuse me many times, if I say something now, which is probably not going to come up with full agreement: Unfortunately, we do not have a very developed political culture on these points as regards compatibility and incompatibility. Unfortunately, our rules on this matter are not so clear either. But the alarm would have to start flashing with you if a finance minister were to make himself here and no longer answer, although he gave clear answers yesterday, if a finance minister did not explain what to explain, namely whether these funds were collected by the association without taxes or whether taxes were paid, because he already knows the answer given today in the APA or in the "Mitagsjournal" – no taxes were paid – if all this happens, ladies and gentlemen! And I'll tell you again because you don't want to believe it: The Minister of Finance has admitted that he or his secretaries have attacked the Industrial Union for money. Yes, you wanted funds from the Industrial Union! That's what he admitted! The Minister of Finance has admitted that the Industrial Union has made these funds available. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: You can hear that for the tenth time!]] The Minister of Finance has admitted that the association operates a homepage called "www.karlheinzgrasser.at". The Minister of Finance has admitted that his secretary is in the board of associations. The Minister of Finance has admitted that the association is alleged to be non-profit, although the non-profit nature of this association is excluded. – However, he did not admit that, the second half sentence. It's clear now: The club didn't pay a tax. Clearly, it is also – and I believe that this is actually a problem, and it would be worthwhile to go into it in detail again: It is not a problem for the Minister of Finance, he admitted it yesterday, if his secretaries mix private work for the Minister of Finance, that is, on the homepage, with the work they do professionally for him. He has literally said: “In addition, I would like to point out that it is my employee’s job, as in any other cabinet, to do political work. This raises the question: Where is the difference whether one of my employees writes a political contribution to a newspaper or does this in a new, modern medium like the Internet?" Mr. Finanzminister, do you know what you said? – It makes no difference to you whether your secretaries are working for your private home page or whether they are writing an article for you as Minister of Finance. For us, ladies and gentlemen, this makes a big, decisive difference! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That is a question of political culture! I would like to admit to you, Minister of Finance, that you have obviously become finance ministers very quickly in this political culture, which has not drawn a clear line between political and personal activity. But this is in no way apologies for you – and it is above all you, ladies and gentlemen, not to accept this rapid rise of the Minister of Finance Grasser and thus not to raise the question of political unculture, namely the non-separation between political and personal activity and between political funds and personal funds, on the issue of political culture. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is a problem if the self-confidence of a finance minister is only through funds of an industrial association,...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18219	I call for the final sentence, honourable Member, that the speaking time of your group is over. One more sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18235	... can be helped by the notes of an industrial association on the jumps. I think it's a problem...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18259	The speaking time of your group has been exhausted for over a minute, Mr Deputies. [[The speaker stays at the speaker's desk and speaks for a short time without a microphone.]] No one is reported in the word anymore. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. [[Long lasting lively accompaniment with the greens for the abg leaving the speaker pult. Oils.]] We are now voting on the draft federal financial laws 2003 and 2004 which I will take separately. The first part of the vote is the draft Bundesfinanzgesetz for 2003, together with investments in 60 of the supplements, as amended by the Committee's report. [[The applause continues.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to allow the difficult voting process now. I should like to ask the club workers present here in the plenary to step on the edge so that we can see clearly how to vote at the time of the vote. There are some in the back. I notice: The plenary is fully occupied. The first part of the vote is the draft Bundesfinanzgesetz for 2003, together with investments in 60 of the supplements, as amended by the Committee's report. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Stoisits, Dr Cap, colleagues, tabled an amendment. MEPs also have Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. In addition, Members of the European Parliament have received a number of comments. Mr Hofmann, Mr Auer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. In addition, Deputies have Dr. Cap, Mag. Mr Stoisits, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Stoisits, Dr. Cap, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, Mr Cap, ladies and gentlemen, have asked for a separate vote, which refers to Chapters 01 to 06 of Annex I. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts of the draft law, which have been touched by the amendments or amendments referred to above, taking into account the desire to vote in name and to vote separately, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted. We come to the vote on Appendix I, Federal estimates 2003 including total summaries (Appendix Ia to Ic). Firstly, we shall proceed to a separate vote on chapters 01 to 06 of Appendix I. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this part of the draft law to have a sign in this regard. - That's the majority. This part of the draft law is therefore adopted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits, Dr. Cap, colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning the estimates 1/11006 and 1/12007. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. I would like to explain briefly this amendment because he may not be aware of all the Members. This is the amendment relating to the proposal’03, term ‘internal, promotions’. This approach will be increased from € 200 000 to € 2 200 000. In the explanatory statement, the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Stoisits, Dr. Cap, Friends and Friends: “To ensure the existential needs of the Jews in Austria and to ensure the continuation of the work of the Institution of the Israeli Cultural Community, in particular to cover security costs, it has become necessary to increase the corresponding budget approaches.” This request is now being put to the vote. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Stoisits, Dr. Josef Cap, ladies and gentlemen, vote, “Yes”, i.e. grey ballots, to throw into the urn, those opposed to putting “No” voting pages, that is, rosarote ballots into the urn. I would ask a Parliamentary official to receive the vote of Mr Huainigg and to put it in the urn on a call for a name. Mrs. Haidlmayr, do you want to come down? [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Yes!]] – They come personally; that makes it clear. I now ask Mr Rainer Wimmer to start with the name call; he is then replaced by Jacob Auerabs. – You are speaking, Mr. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18361	Did all the Members vote? - That's what happened. The vote will thus end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18394	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote as follows: 180 votes were cast, 84 votes in ‘Yes’, 96 in ‘No’ votes. The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Stoisits, Dr. Cap, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. In accordance with Rule 66(8) of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, stating their voting behaviour. With “Yes, ” MEPs voted: Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Binder, Brosz, Broukal, Bures; Cap, Csörgits; Dobnigg; Eder, one; Faul, Fischer, Fleckl; Gaál Anton, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glavischnig, Grossmann, Green Forest, Gusenbauer; Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hoscher; Jarolim; Kaipel, Keck, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kummerer, Kuntzl; Lacner, Lapp, Lunacek; Maier Johann, Mandak, Marizzi, Matznetter, Moser Gabriela, Moser Hans, Muttonen; Niederwieser, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Parnigoni, Pendl, pepper, mushroom, Pirklhuber, Posch, Prehauser, Prammer, Puswald; Rada Robert, Reheis, Rest-Hintersief, Riepl; Sburny, Sharer, Schasching, Schieder, Schönpass, Schopf, Silhavy, Sima, Spindelberger Erwin, Stadlbauer, Steier, Stoisits; Trunk; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Walther, Weinzinger, Wimmer, Wittmann, Worm. With “No, ” MEPs voted: Achleitner, Amon, Auer Jakob, Auer Klaus Hubert; Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Bleckmann, Böhm, Bösch, Brad Alfred, Brinek, Bucher; Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Edelwall, Eßl; Fassleven, Fekter, Felzmann, Franz, Freund, Frieser, Fuhrmann; Gahr Hermann, Glaser, Grander, Grillitsch, Großruck; Hakl, Haubner, Hofmann, Hellererer, Hornek, Huainigg, Hütl; Ikrath; Kainz, Kapeller, Keussnigg, Khol, Koßl, Kurzbauer; cross-country skiers, ledolter, lentic, light-egger, lopatka; Machne, Maier Ferdinand, Mainoni, Marek, Miedl, Mikesch, Missethon, Mitterlehner, Molterer, Murauer; Neudeck, Neugebauer; Pack, Partik-Pablé, Praßl, Preider, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Regler Roderich, Riener, Rosenkranz, Rossmann; Scheibner, Scheuch, Scheucher-Pichler, Schephermair, Schöls, Schultes, Schweisgut, Sieber, Spindelegger Michael, Stadler, Steibl Ridi, Steindl Konrad, Stummvoll; Tamandel, Tancsits, Drinkl, Turković-Wendl; Walch, Wattaul, Wegscheider, Winkler, Wittauer, Wöinger, Wolfmayr, Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18571	I shall now vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. - That's accepted. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment to the proposal 1/60146. I am looking for a sign for those Members of the House who are speaking for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. I ask the club staff to leave the plenary room; otherwise you see so bad. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I would ask those Members who have spoken in favour of this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. Now we are voting on the remaining parts of Appendix I, which have not yet been voted on, including the 2003 Federal Estimate, including total summaries (Annexes Ia to Ic) in 60 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments resulting from the Committee's report in 112 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign on this point. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on Appendix II – establishment plan for 2003. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign on this point. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the text of the 2003 Federal Finance Act. Mr Hizu, Members of the European Parliament have received a number of comments. Mr Hofmann, Mr Auer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment concerning Article VI(1)(24). I am looking for a sign for those Members who are here. – This is accepted by a majority. MEPs also have Dipl.-Ing. Mr Hofmann, Mr Auer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary request concerning the insertion of a point 25 into Article VI(1). I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the 2003 Federal Finance Act, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those Members who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. This concludes the second reading on the Federal Finance Act 2003 together with investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. This adopted the 2003 budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled to the 2003 Federal Finance Act, in the order of submission. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Winkler and Mag. Mainoni and Fleckl will be voted in accordance with the Federal Finance Act 2004. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues, on the termination of the Federal Youth Fund's funding to the Austrian Pennälerring. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the motion for a resolution, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lichtenberger, ladies and gentlemen, on priority for rail instead of road projects at the TEN-Neuve deal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Broukal, ladies and gentlemen, on socially just broadband. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues, on the withdrawal of hourly reductions by the withdrawal of the 2003 directive on weekly relief and readjustment. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That's the minority. Rejected. We are now voting on the draft Federal Finance Act for 2004 in 61 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Stoisits, Dr Cap, colleagues, tabled an amendment. MEPs also have Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. Mr Auer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Hofmann, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. Finally, there is a desire for a separate vote by Mr Cap, colleagues on the amendment tabled by Mr Auer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Hofmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, MEPs have asked Dr Cap, colleagues, for a separate vote on Chapters 01 to 06 – Top Institutions. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the proposed amendments, taking into account the desire for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We are therefore voting on Appendix I – Federal estimates 2004 including overall summaries (Appendix Ia to Ic). We shall proceed to a separate vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Auer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, colleagues in relation to the estimate 1/05000 – Public Prosecutorship Staff expenditure. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of this. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the remaining parts of Chapters 01 to 06 in 61 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments made by the Committee into account in 113 of the Supplements. Ladies and gentlemen, I am looking for a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Stoisits, Dr. Cap, colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning the estimates 1/11006 and 1/12007. . This is the same request that we have carried out a roll call vote on earlier. Jene Ladies and gentlemen, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for a positive sign for those members of the House who give their consent here. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Auer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Hofmann, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to Chapters 16 and 51. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning Chapter 60 (agriculture and forestry). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall be voting separately on paragraph 4 of the amendment tabled by Mr Auer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Hofmann, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the amendments to the sum amounts in Appendix I and Appendices Ia to Ic resulting from the adoption of the amendment. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now vote on the remaining parts of Annex I to the 2004 budget, including total summaries (Annexes Ia to Ic) in 61 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments resulting from the Committee's report 113 of the Supplements. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We now proceed to the vote on Appendix II – establishment plan for the year 2004. We shall therefore proceed to a separate vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Auer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, colleagues concerning 05 People's Procuratorate, page 197. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 4 of the amendment tabled by Mr Auer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Hofmann, colleagues, concerning the amount of change in Appendix II resulting from the adoption of the amendment. I am looking for a sign of approval for those members of the House who are in favour of this House. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the remaining parts of Annex II – establishment plan for 2004 as amended by the Government template. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the remaining parts of the Federal Finance Act for 2004. We shall therefore proceed to a separate vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Auer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, colleagues on the text of the Federal Finance Act Article VI(1) 23. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We are now voting on the remaining parts of the Federal Finance Act for 2004 in 61 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report in 113 of the Supplements. I'm looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the majority and thus accepted. This concludes the second reading on the Federal Finance Act 2004 together with investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. – This is done, and therefore the draft law is also adopted by a majority in third reading. This adopted the 2004 budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Winkler, Mag. Mainoni, colleagues on the Federal Financial Laws 2003 and 2004 concerning the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 9.) We shall also vote on the resolution tabled by Members Fleckl, colleagues and colleagues on the Federal Financial Laws 2003 and 2004 concerning the New South Railway project and the fastest possible implementation of the Semmering Base Tunnel as part of the trans-European network. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Finance under Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The agenda is exhausted. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18940	There is a written request from 20 Members to read the official minutes of this meeting with regard to agenda items 1 and 2 so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the meeting. This will enable the immediate implementation of the decisions taken by the National Council. I shall therefore proceed in this way. Reading of the official protocol of the 25th century. National Council meeting on agenda items 1 and 2: ‘TO point 1: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (60 of Supplements): Bundesfinanzgesetz for the year 2003 and investments (112 of the supplements) TO point 2: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (61 of Supplements): Bundesfinanzgesetz for the year 2004 and investments (113 of the supplements).’ ‘Departures To TO point 1: The draft law in 60 of the Supplements, including Appendices Ia to Ic and II, as amended by the Committee's report in 112 of the Supplements, will be adopted in a separate vote by a different majority in second reading, taking into account the amendment proposal for a Supplement 1/9 (for which V, S, F and so on). V, F). The draft law, together with the third reading, will also be adopted by majority vote (V, F). The amendment Annex 1/2 is rejected (S, G). The amendment Annex 1/3 will be put to the vote in a natural vote (vote: 180, of which yes-voices: 84, No votes: 96). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA is rejected (S, G). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/4 EA is rejected (S, G). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/6 EA is rejected (S, G). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/8 EA is rejected (S, G). To TO point 2: The draft law in 61 of the Supplements (Annexes Ia to Ic) and II (Supplements for 2004) will be partially unanimously adopted in a separate vote in the version of the Committee's report in 113 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment request for Supplement 2/4 in second reading (partly with a majority of votes in favour (V, S, F and so on). V, F). The draft law, together with the third reading, will also be adopted by majority vote (V, F). The amendment Annex 2/1 is rejected (S, G). The amendment Annex 2/2 is rejected (S, G). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/7 EA was adopted by a majority vote (V, F). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/5 EA is rejected (S). The motion for a resolution Supplement 2/3 EA is rejected in the presence of the constitutional number of Members (S, G).’ Are there any objections to the version or content of this Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The Official Protocol shall therefore apply in respect of item 1 and item 2 in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19044	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed have received requests from 159/A to 174/A. Question No 550/J to 576/J has also been received. I call the next meeting of the National Council at 20.23 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is closed.
