ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4157	Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to take the seats. I'll open the 40. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 37. Meeting of 12. ==References====External links== Meeting of 13. In November 2003, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Sima, Nuremberger, Mag. Posch and Dr. Pillow. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4188	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasserbecomes by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance Dr. Alfred Finzreiter. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4215	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘EU governance conference – state of play’ First of all, Mr Spindelegger has spoken. I give him the floor and draw attention to the fact that the legal speaking time is 10 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Maximum!]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4244	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is an important day in this House because we will determine the accession agreements of the new Member States. It is an important day for Austria, but it is also important to talk about the state of negotiations on the EU Constitution, because we are also at a certain threshold – in a process in which the end is not yet clear, but after a conclave by the Foreign Minister on the last weekend, in which it has been shown for the first time in which it can go, and before a decision – perhaps a partial decision – in the European Council in which the Federal Chancellor is represented to us as head of government in Austria. We want to take this opportunity today to discuss this threshold, the results so far, and have therefore chosen it as the theme of this current hour. The most important thing for us was that we are talking about changes at all, ladies and gentlemen, because: Why don't we remember six months ago? There was a convention in the European Union, in which Austrians also participated well. And this Convention gave us a result that can be seen and to which you can most of the time stand. But there were and gives in this draft individual passages, some points of content with which we Austrians cannot live well. I should therefore like to stress, first of all, that we have succeeded in talking about change at all, because I can remind you, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the opposition parties, that six months ago the mood prevailed in this Parliament too: It is not worth changing an outline, otherwise everything will fly into the air, and the Pandora canals will be opened! Ladies and gentlemen! Six months later, thanks to God, the situation looks different. In the meantime, there is a list mainly of Austrian projects which are becoming increasingly important. I therefore see it as an important success of our foreign and European policy that we have enforced on this issue. It is discussed about necessary changes, and this is above all a success of the tenacity of our Federal Chancellor, who said from the outset: With certain decisions we do not want to live that way! – I am pleased that this has come so far today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] All small-heartedness was also spoken of by colleagues from the Greens – Mr Voggenhuber spoke of the “Zwergen States” at the time; it is very interesting that one can have such a picture of Austria – and of others like the colleague One of the SPÖs, who meant that we were endangering everything, thank God. We can now focus on the content. The first essential element for us was and is to want to take seriously the principle of balance of all the Member States of the European Union, whether large or small. And a formulation of this principle is that every member country must be represented in every institution, ladies and gentlemen. Let us not question this principle, in a large Europe to which we confess, but let us support the fact that every member also has a representative in the Commission who can take part! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Six months ago, especially the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition in our discussions in the EU's main committee, gave very little importance to this issue. When I think of the last meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, it seems a little different to God. Now that it is slowly developing that it will be a position that will also be taken by the great in the European Union, there are also acceptable calls for opposition. We are pleased, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition – we are all capable of learning! – that you too can slowly jump on the right train. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] A second point, which is important to us, concerns the question of the Presidency. This is very different in the current draft: We know a President of the Commission who will be elected for five years; we have a President of the European Parliament who will be elected for two and a half years; there is an EU foreign minister to be appointed, and there will be a Presidency in the Council of Ministers each year. – That doesn’t seem to us to be very evasive; there’s not the right idea behind it yet! Therefore, Austria has proposed a Presidency of the Council which is led by a kind of team to go in a direction across several different positions, which also brings continuity into a presidency. Ladies and gentlemen! Six months ago, this was an idea you swept away. Today it turns out that this team presidency – a proposal from Austria – is seriously considered: a remarkable progress! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Dolinschek and Mr Walch on his work.]] This draft also contains a point that concerns all our communities, all our local authorities. Under the heading ‘General provisions’, it is proposed to establish European rules on water supply, on waste disposal, on waste water disposal issues. Ladies and gentlemen! From our point of view, European rules that intervene in every municipality cannot be carried out in this form! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Walch.]] We want this design to be left exclusively to the Member States. And we want these issues to remain settled in the local and local authorities. This is our view of subsidiarity. This is a basic structure of Austria, which we should also make majority in the European Union. Six months ago, this was a wish that many called totally unrealistic. At the last meeting of the Foreign Ministers in Naples, it was apparent at one time that Austria's proposal, a concrete proposal for a wording, is to be accepted by the majority. A remarkable progress! And we are pleased that this tenacity obviously also leads to the goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have discussed the question of renegotiating the EuratoM Treaty in a separate Intergovernmental Conference in order to note that we do not agree with what is being done in the European Union on nuclear policy. We insist and want to see another start in this direction, that a conference of our own on Euratom should be held. It is important for our position, which we have consistently represented here, but also in Europe. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, we also want to consider the proposal for a European commitment to assistance. The debate that is now being held is always going wrong. First of all, you have to think about whether an assistance obligation is an advantage for Austria, only then you have to discuss the legal consequences – and not the other way round! I would therefore particularly like to invite the opposition parties today not to do away with all the “cule-striking arguments” again, but to consider first the advantages and disadvantages! We now have a proposal on the table on this issue. It is remarkable that Germany, France and the UK have put on the table such a proposal, because when we considered six months ago how to move towards a European defence, we have received a unanimous rejection from these countries. In the meantime, however, it is precisely these countries that have put forward a text proposal to the Foreign Ministers – also a remarkable turn in Europe! But this is far from the end of the discussion. This proposal, as it stands today, does not have to be constitutionally erased by us until the last detail is examined, as it is not likely to be in the European Constitution. All the discussions still stand out! But, ladies and gentlemen, should we not even think about the fact that a commitment to assistance brings us benefits, namely the advantage of keeping a conflict out of this Union at all, that a community with a common internal market, which today has a common currency, must clearly strive for a common defence in the next consequence? [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a guarantee!]] And I'm very surprised about that: Wearing the big step towards European defence You are full of it, however, the first concrete part of it towards a assistance obligation you already see as the beginning of the end and get cold feet before it even started. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not how politics can be done! That's something else we're against! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before an Intergovernmental Conference, we have one with certainty, a Federal Chancellor representing our interests. And we are proud of that and we can be proud too!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4330	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I'll give it to him. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4349	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can briefly comment on the current issues in the Intergovernmental Conference. It is true that, as Mr Spindelegger said, it has now become clear that it is possible, even necessary, to improve in itself the great progress made by the Convention's draft. There is actually consensus about this today. No one has questioned the draft Convention in its substance, but there are now a number of almost out of dispute issues in which this Convention draft is being improved in a sustainable manner. We, the Foreign Minister and I, are very glad that we can participate in these improvements together. In about a week, the European Council will hold the final negotiations for a comprehensive political package. I believe that if all have the political will to reach a conclusion, it will be possible to find a common line in Brussels in these two or three days, which can, of course, be transposed into legal form under the Irish Presidency. If you allow, I will address some specific points. When we started to improve the Convention texts concerning the Commission, we were only four or five countries, that is, a significant minority. Today, in the last conclave of the Foreign Minister, Benita Ferrero-Waldner, who has made networking with other like-minded countries great, was able to find that there is already an overwhelming majority in favour of the principle "a Commissioner of voting per Member State", however, with limited responsibility for the place – that can be defined by the Commission or entered into the Treaty – but in any case with fixed tasks. It is very important, I believe, that it is also very important for citizens not to have an A and B team of Commissioners, that is, those who have something to say, and those who have only one Gage, a Secretariat and a Service Car, but are not allowed to vote in favour or have a job. To be honest: Such national interventionists need no man! Our proposal is much better, and he wins more followers every day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] A second important area is the legal control of the decisions of the European Council – which will now become a new institution – by the European Court of Justice. I think this makes absolutely sense in terms of legal control and transparency of decisions. This point has already been accepted. A third area includes strengthening the euro zone. I believe that it is a crucial point that those Member States that are in the euro area can clearly state on various issues that this will improve the suspension of the decision-making structure within the euro area. That this is necessary has been seen on the basis of the events surrounding the Stability Pact, which, in my view, does not question the substance, but needs to be improved in the flexibility of application, because: We need a stability and growth pact with bites! What is now apparent is that some stick to it, but others do not at all and thus enter a non-lawful space that has arisen politically, does not seem to me to be a reasonable principle. [[We welcome the ÖVP as well as the Scheibner and Neudeck Members.]] Another area that is particularly important for us Austrian and federally organized states is the question of general care, the services of General Interest, the municipal services in terms of water, waste and various other areas. We have proposed a text which, of course, will not be voted on until the end, but which has not yet been objected to. This text, if it were to go through, would be a tremendous improvement, even compared to today's status quo: Benita Ferrero-Waldner proposed that a European law on principles and conditions should respect the competence of Member States to provide, order or finance such services. This would be a huge progress towards today, because there are very different formulations in the current Treaties. Once the principle of subsidiarity is stressed, other provisions stress the central principle of the single market. The jurisdictions of the European Court of Justice are correspondingly diverse and partly contradictory. If we get through this, we have achieved great success for our communities, for federalism and for subsidiarity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In addition, Benita Ferrero-Waldner has succeeded in clarifying in Article III-116, which is the legal basis for the Structural Funds and cohesion policy, that these policies, which are now included, must also pay particular attention to the question of border regions and mountain areas. This is, I believe, a very important point, because we have a point of view on the present area of the Community. Enlargement goes beyond that and could ensure a great deal, especially in these important regions. The revision of the EURATOM Treaty is still completely open. In this respect, we have so far found little support. I believe that we also need to look at the texts very seriously and carefully in the question - Michael Spindelegger has already mentioned it - of European security and defence policy. What's being suggested? – It has never been discussed on the basis of texts within the Council formations in the Intergovernmental Conference. I say quite openly: That bothers me. It would have been a failure if one had put a text on the table before the conclave, as it was announced, and then one could have worked in concrete terms. Now there are two proposals: one before the conclave, which was given to us informally, and one was passed around after the conclave. Both texts contain two new proposals, one for structured cooperation, which is better than the conclave draft, I say very openly here, because from my point of view, the draft conclave was a very intrusive way of creating a ‘closed shop’ in which few founding members would have had the chance of excluding others, setting out the criteria themselves and deciding who would leave them to do so. What is now on the table is better, but from my point of view not clear enough. We want the principles to be discussed in the Council with all 25 Member States and the rules of the game to be clearly identified where the journey is supposed to take place in this militaryly structured cooperation. The second text contains the question of a commitment to assist. The first formulation contained a strong military component. In the second text, which was distributed on Friday after the discussion, the military component is much less emphasized. It is clear, however, that for the first time, both proposals give solidarity to an EU State attacked. I say quite openly now: This seems to me to be useful, because if we are in a common Union, it is obvious that we owe each other solidarity. This is just as if something happens to the Burgenland, then Vorarlberg is solid and it must also be Salzburg and the entire Federal Government. That is what I expect within a European family like our Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is important that Article 51 of the UN Charter is mentioned for the first time, that is, that we give the political commitment to help partners in the event of aggression in their own territory, to provide political assistance, and to decide for ourselves how we implement it. I know there are some concerns about this. There are legal concerns, constitutional concerns and political concerns. I think, however, that the second proposal shows in the right direction. It is also interesting for the Austrian constitutional discussion, because I believe it is not a disposal, as was feared, of neutrality. As part of the Austrian Constitutional Reform – Article 23f – we have already amended our Constitution to allow us to participate in European actions with a European mandate. It's our decision to say: Yes, we do, yes, we do this with these possibilities, with these instruments. I therefore believe that it is essential that we do not give the impression that the law of neutrality as a whole will be called into question, that is not the case, and this would not be related to these proposals, but I would invite you to stay in touch with us together in the EU's main committee and in informal contacts during the final negotiations so that we can take on a common Austrian position in this respect, which will also bring Europe forward on this issue. I mean, we're in a very interesting discussion phase. I invite you, as in the past, to discuss all the points honestly and openly with each other. I am confident that in a few days we will take a new European Constitution out of baptism, and that would be a truly historic step forward.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4482	Mr Dr Fassleven, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4517	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! When a negative transit decision for Austria took place on Tuesday last week and the same day the Stability Pact was challenged by the countries of Germany and France, many people not only in Austria but throughout Europe felt it was a setback, as a “black Tuesday” for Europe. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Black is always bad!]] Today we see ourselves at another point of the way. Today is a decisive day on which it is not only about creating a new, larger Europe, but in particular about reunification of Central Europe. Everyone is aware that it is a big step to get ten new members to do so, and that this is only possible and feasible if there is a new constitution when there will be new rules on the game and if there are new tasks for the European Union. We believe that at this stage, in particular, it is important that all states should continue to have the opportunity to speak fully in all the important institutions not only, but also to be able to decide. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We assume that a united and united Europe can only be reached if everyone can participate – that is of course! That is why, for us, the question that we also address accordingly, we can assume that there will be a Commissioner with the right to vote in the future for each country and therefore also for Austria. We believe that this is one of the crucial issues. We believe that we should not let go of this either. It also shows that we are finding more and more support for it. It is quite remarkable that three years ago Austria was also isolated within the EU. Let us just think back to the time of sanctions! No one gave anything to what Austria said at the time. We have stood out for this situation, but we have not only stood it out by giving ourselves the right, but we are so far today that more than two thirds of all EU members have elected and recognised Austria as spokesperson of a group. We are so far today that the other countries are listening to Austria on all the questions that have already been raised by Mr Bundeskanzler. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Especially Ferrero-Waldner is taken seriously!]] What I do not understand is that much of the opposition goes a long way to this proposal concerning a Commissioner for each country. I don't think so. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Go, stop!]] Ask your colleagues only One or take your own opinions! I have so far missed the fact that the opposition is equal and in the same strength and intensity as the government parties do. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: such a fool!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Wake up! It's half ten already!]] I can only say one thing: I would be pleased if you were to make a clear statement on all the unofficial occasions. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A coffee, please!]] It is quite similar with regard to the common foreign and security policy. When we look at the problems in the Balkans, when we think of the Middle East, when we think of Central Asia or also North Africa, when we think of the danger of nuclear risk, of global terrorism or of biological and chemical martial substances, then, I must say, it is clear to everyone that these problems exceed the possibilities and capacities of a single country. No country in Europe, not even the largest such as Germany, France or Italy, can cope with such problems. It is therefore important that there is a common foreign policy, a common security policy and a common defence. The fact that everyone should also have a right to solidarity is of great importance to me is out of question. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I do not quite understand, Mr Gusenbauer, that you are still opposed to this, I say, pre-emptive argument: It is the Austrian neutrality on it. – This is exactly the same argument you made in 1989 – the year of the turn! – when Europe as a whole began to find one another, used one another against another, against the fact that Austria joins the EU at all. - I can read it to you. ==References====External links== March 1989 reads: The Socialist Youth is acting against the letter to Brussels. We believe that accession to the EC with retention of neutrality is neither possible nor desirable, says Chairman Alfred Gusenbauer. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! We should get rid of it, including those old Juso positions, Mr Gusenbauer. I think it is also time to drive an independent line, even if the Upper Austrians do not go along. Do this in the interests of Austria! Do this in the interests of the security of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4651	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4669	Mr Fassleven! What we cannot let go through is an foreign policy that cheats, dizzys, and enslavs. And I can prove that to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have now heard from the Federal Chancellor's words that the famous paper was distributed about the duty of assistance after the meeting. The Minister did not say anything about this. The truth is, one should tell the EU what Austria's legal obligations are in relation to neutrality and what the current interpretation of neutrality is. The Austrians should be told that if any assistance is necessary, they will also be asked to do so. It is not a matter of creating a fait accompli over the back door and then saying that we are now making the assistance obligation and are still neutral. In other words, it means: From that day on, all the pears are apples. That's not how it is! Open and honest policies must be made in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Parliamentary Fassleven has sung a song of praise to the government, to the Federal Chancellor and to an Austrian Commissioner. Of course, we are also in favour of an Austrian Commissioner. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] But the Austrian Commissioner is not the representative of Austria. Where was Commissioner Fischler on the transit question? Where was he? – This is again a debilitating and “beschlavin” of the population. That's your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grossruck: That was strings!]] To the transit contract: There is a constant praise for the foreign minister, who unfortunately is not here today. ==References== In July 2001, the Minister of Foreign Affairs for Foreign Affairs did not give up a ceiling on transit without a return. The dilemma of the Austrian transit disaster is primarily due to Mrs. Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner. She agreed at the time that there was no upper limit. On the side of the Ministry of Infrastructure, false figures were slavinised against Brussels. The Austrians were weakened by possible compromise solutions that were not realistic. Brussels has been debilitated by saying that the railways are being expanded anyway. But the railway is only painted, tormented, broken and not expanded, although we have committed ourselves to it in the transit protocols of the Accession Treaty. There is a disquieting, shying and slavining of Europe and the Austrian population. We can only say no to that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It continues with the secret pact of Minister of Finance Grasser at the ECOFIN Council. It has been said that, when it comes to saving European growth and the Austrian economy, we will not want to let the European Parliament or the Commission talk a little bit about it in the future, but we want to do so by the Finance Ministers alone in the future. In addition, the letter that the Minister of Finance wrote to the government to report on this secret pact suddenly only says that he is for keeping the budget limits. It is no longer in that the finance ministers had a conspiracy in front of them and only wanted to make everything out of themselves. [[Abg. Grossruck: We want to hear content!]] So: Disabling, cheating, addicting! This is your line in foreign policy towards the EU and also towards the Austrian population. It's an important concern to you. Another example: Germany, France, Italy – these are countries you can’t start with because you’re putting on the crown countries of the Habsburg monarchy and making them mobile against Paris and Berlin; and every time you do that, you get one on the cap, that’s the truth that has been observed so far – a growth initiative, want to stand for employment. Bartenstein, bowl and co no earwashing. Only when the majority of EU Member States were in favour of this growth pact did you say: Well, if it wants the majority, then we have been forced to do so. Although we are not concerned about jobs, we are not concerned about growth, but if there is a majority for it, we have always been for that. - Disabling, cheating, addicting! [[Abg. Mr Partik-Pablé: Mr President! Isn't that a question of order?]] This is your foreign policy, which you are pursuing at the expense of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is also part of the Commissioner's question and of the expectations that are formulated here. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] - I'm already done. – Please don’t sit here with the incense boiler and don’t say that this is the best foreign policy ever! A disaster is on the table here! That's the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4777	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4795	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! What did you say, Mr Cap? – Disabling, shying, addicting, and still in connection with the neutrality or security policy of this federal government. Mr Cap, for how short-term She's our memory? – I believe that you believe this, because otherwise you wouldn’t even put the accusation in the mouth that since the year 2000, the Austrian Federal Government has wanted to undermine or abolish neutrality. [[Call the SPÖ:Very!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Assos dizzy, addict, and cheat: In 1999, a constitutional amendment was adopted here in the High House by the majority of a SPÖ-led Federal Government. What's in Article 23f, ladies and gentlemen? – Decisions by the European Council on a common defence of the European Union and on the integration of the Western European Union must be taken by means of constitutional law. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So: The joint defence of the European Union is enshrined in the Austrian federal constitution. The preliminary step towards this common defence, which you have presupposed, is the assistance guarantee which is now being discussed, ladies and gentlemen. What is the point of Article 23f in the case of decisions relating to fighting operations in crisis management, including peace-building measures? – Fighting operations, including peace-making measures, are permitted under the Austrian Federal Constitution, which was decided by the SPÖ-led Federal Government in 1999. - Disabling, cheating, and addicting! This is incompatible with the fact that international law is being taken seriously. Did you ask the people at the time if they agreed? - No! You said it was all compatible. If you are looking for the conditions of the UN mandate as a prerequisite for fighting efforts to create peace, you are looking for it in the Austrian federal constitution in vain. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: That doesn't look good!]] Mr. Cap, to your “disabling, shying, addicting”: Whoever is here is the greatest slave, that is once put there and left to the audience's assessment. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All elections again the SPÖ is trying to make party politics with neutrality, and that is irresponsible. President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. But admit it honestly: When you were in the Federal Government, you argued everything the way you needed it. They knew that the full membership of Austria in the European Union, the full participation of Austria in the Joint Committee Foreign and security policy, which fully participates in European security and defence policy, is incompatible with the classical concept of neutrality. That's why – and that's why! – you had to change the federal constitution in this direction, and you did not ask anyone, even the Austrians, whether they agreed to this step. Ladies and gentlemen! A clear word in this direction: I am in favour of the assistance guarantee, not for what you want from Social Democracy, namely a European defence: There should be an army in the European Union, all national armies should be removed, and one should no longer be able to make the sovereign decision in the sense of exercising this guarantee of assistance. - You want that, I don't! I would like to receive the Austrian Federal Army, I would also like to align this Austrian federal army with the National Council in such a way that it can be used in solidarity when it comes to securing peace for Europe and Europe and thus guaranteeing the security of our country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is a sensible, serious security policy, and I am very glad that the European Union, although it has been adjourned for a long time, is now also responding to the Austrian proposals that it recognises that this is an important issue. There will still be a lot to discuss. At all events, I believe that the main issue at this Intergovernmental Conference is to secure the interests of Austria. The fact that we will be able to send a Commissioner in the future is certainly good and right, but what I am talking about in the first place is that – and we have seen it in the transit agreement – important key issues in the European Union can only be changed unanimously in the future, so that we too, as a small country, can decide how we can shape our water resources or our land law. I hope and expect this, Federal Chancellor, from our foreign policy and from our representation in Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4879	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4897	Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard a lot about Austrian interests by Mr Bundeskanzler, by Mr Scheibner. [[Call the ÖVP: Nothin' from Cap!]] The Austrian interests, ladies and gentlemen, however, are not defined in such a way as to listen to what the people want, but the government goes into the back room and defines it for itself – most clearly, of course, the current example of security policy and the discussion about Naples's meeting! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: But what the Voggenhuber says!]] It is obviously Austrian interest from the perspective of the government that Austria participates as quickly as possible in a military alliance that does not create a demarcation to NATO. That's the truth, and that's what the people need to know. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Foreign Ministers themselves say that this so-called enhanced cooperation with the assistance obligation should operate as closely as possible in connection with NATO. – Ladies and gentlemen, are you aware of what that means? While the Convention's proposal has pointed out quite clearly that it is about the development of a European security system, the current proposal is first and foremost – and this is also a tradition of this government – covered by democratic control – there is no statement that the government is completely indifferent – and the deterioration has been further aggravated. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who stand here today and say that a military duty is compatible with neutrality, who understands nothing of the whole story, because the essential element of a duty of assistance, a guarantee of assistance, a mutual promise that, if you are attacked, you will react to it in military terms, is probably such a contract, and that then has nothing to do with neutrality at all. In this way, neutrality within the meaning of the government is to be disposed of in a different way without questioning the Austrian population whether it wants to do so. I know why you're doing that. The consent to Austrian neutrality in the population is very high, and you want to get to the devil’s end that is discussed publicly, that you want to get rid of this neutrality, that you want to enter into this duty of assistance so that you can finally justify the Eurofighter procurement. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Then you have the excuse that this is necessary for European defence. After this excuse, you're looking for that excuse. That, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly so obvious that everyone who is concerned with the whole subject is really involved. [[Abg. Scheibner: Very refreshing what you bring!]] But it's not just about this question. This is so true of the tradition of government representatives in the Intergovernmental Conferences since the draft Convention. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] If you look at what you are bringing into the discussion in the Convention as an Austrian interest, you can find a red thread, and that is: Democracy out – government pure, government pure in the form that only the government – and only them! – defines the interest of Austria! Ladies and gentlemen! If the Federal Chancellor expresses the importance of public interest in the services, I must say that he should take a close look at the draft Convention and also at the discussion within the Convention's Committee, there was a clear commitment to this. In addition, I am very surprised why, for example, the Austrian Convention on the anchoring of these public interests is strongly resisting the exponents of your camp, Mr. Bundeskanzler. One more word: A clear formulation of Austrian interests has been made by the Foreign Minister in 2001; Mr Cap has already indicated it. From the so-called Women's Summit in July 2001, which was the first time the transit agreement had been developed, the Foreign Ministers returned with a clear statement: This bitter pill in transit will probably have to swallow Tyrol. – When we asked how much the Foreign Minister is committed to an EURATOM revision conference, she said: Unfortunately, we have no alliance partners at all. Whenever it comes to specific interests of the Austrian population, this government is not willing to resort to the necessary lobbying, there is all at once too much opposition. When it comes to democracy, government goes in, you fight until the end. – Unfortunately, this is a negative balance sheet.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4990	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5008	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard words here and today from Mr Cap very often, such as "disabling, shying, addicting", and Mrs Lichtenberger has also taken up the problem, though in a somewhat finer form, but about as if one was passing by the citizen and taking arbitrary decisions. Ladies and gentlemen! You all voted in favour, you all heard the relevant legal texts. In my opinion, it is not necessary to discuss neutrality theoretically now, but to live up to what is on the paper, namely the duty to defend and assist. Beyond that, only the one who acts as if there were no obligation to help. Ladies and gentlemen! If I am in a community, I must, of course, also cooperate and assist the others accordingly. And this is a serious discussion. However, I do not think this is a serious discussion if one wants to anticipate the results and if one hears de facto from the radio that a popular survey is what the Socialists suggest. This is not a serious process, ladies and gentlemen. Example transit contract: We are all glad that, in the context of the equality of all states, there is obviously a chance that each country will appoint a Commissioner. Then we hear from Mr Cap: Where was Commissioner Fischler? What did he do in the transit question for Austria? - That's the wrong question. Not: What has the Commission done, what has the Commissioner responsible, Commissioner De Palacio, done in this case, been to question, but: What has the European Parliament done? And so the question is, and that is what we discussed here in one of the last urgent questions: Where were the Greens? Why did they at least prevent the simple majority from fulfilling the Austrian position accordingly? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Likewise – you say it again and again, Mr Cap, but it is simply wrong; we value it –: Austria has never given up its position with 108 percent at the ecopoints. This is clear from the minutes, which is from the Commission. Austria, especially the foreign minister, has always kept the line here. [[Call the Greens: That's not true!]] – Read it, I've got the lyrics! [[Abg. May. Worm: Dizziness, dizziness, dizziness! Don't be sluggish again!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Intergovernmental Conference on the future Constitution is also of great importance to the economy. If both the Austrian and European economies want to be competitive, we need an environment that is growth-oriented, economically oriented and has clear, transparent, comprehensible objectives and decision-making processes. And that is the case with this draft Constitution. In particular, we welcome the focus on the elements of representative democracy and also on the elements of participation. They have complained of a lack of closeness to the citizens. It is precisely this that takes into account the elements of participation, including the strengthening of the EESC, the strengthening of civil society. Social dialogue has also been strengthened accordingly. – I therefore believe that we are on the right track in this respect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Second point: We have heard today that an agreement has been reached in Italy in connection with the border regions, which is the result of the definition. Although this sounds relatively simple and banal, it is of fundamental importance. If we decide today to ratify the European enlargement agreements, the issue of promoting will be a major issue, because we will see that there are differences next year at the latest. And if there are differences and there are also different economic performance, then the problem of funding is obvious. The definition of the border region is therefore an immensely important achievement. This is the third point which I particularly value positively from the economic point of view of the negotiations: Since there has been a success in strengthening the position at least once in the field of general care – I hope there is also a unanimity – there is a certainty that it is clear, especially in terms of general care, water supply, education and health, that national elements are in the foreground here that subsidiarity is a breakthrough. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we have security in an emotional discussion and that we can enforce the principle of subsidiarity. Ladies and gentlemen! Summary: The discussion is on the move. We have solid bases for decision-making in Brussels for the next Intergovernmental Conference. Austria – and for this we thank our negotiators – has taken a path of constructive cooperation. This will enable the enlarged Union to act in accordance with clear principles of action. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5067	The honourable Member is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Trunk. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5085	Mr Mitterlehner, just a comment on security policy and seriality: What is this Chancellor worth the neutrality of the Republic of Austria? – I remind you of Mozart balls and Lipizzans. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) These and other sagars and the failure of transit problems are dramatic examples of the existence of Austrian domestic and foreign policy and are also dramatic examples of what this German chancellor is juxtaposed and playful about the reputation of the Republic of Austria, examples of a policy of non-negotiation, of dictating instead of governing, of driving, such as tanks on the interests of people, examples of a policy according to the motto: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Cost what it wants! If it costs 298 000 unemployed people, costs it the destruction of the ÖBB, costs it the juxtaposition, the hurling of state property, the property of all Austrians, at dumping prices, it costs security, the rule of law and also social peace in Austria. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What connects this Federal Chancellor with the current head of state of Carinthia is that both negligently and knowingly have put the previously internationally recognized, renowned reputation of the Republic of Austria at risk not only, but also destroyed. That connects these two! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! They have destroyed the Austrian reputation because seriosity and reliability and credibility were sacrificed, namely the vain self-scathing of a Federal Chancellor and his shadow chancellor in Carinthia. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Chancellor and the Head of State of Carinthia are, in fact, confusing international negotiations on international parquets with a poker round. Mr. Federal Chancellor, poker players are not alliance partners! Mr. Federal Chancellor, poker players don't first have the interests of the people of their own country in mind, poker players are negligent adventurers! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Thematic Miss!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Colleagues from the ÖVP! I am now quoting an unwarranted witness, namely your colleague Marilies Flemming, the EU Parliamentary of your party. What does Flemming say? - That's not how it is. We need to understand that we are part of the European Union, and we have to comply with rules of the game. – Not Trunk or SPÖ, but Marilies Flemming says that. A second witness, he sits behind me, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Gorbach, believes that an accusation is justified, that it has been recognized too late as to how lobbying is done in the EU. In the direction of Kärntner Landeshauptmann, this vice chancellor means – listen! – so far, one has not been very successful with the so-called veto policy. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: “This one” vice chancellor! Is there another one, Mrs Colleague?]] - O-Ton Vice-Chancellor Gorbach. Infrastructural measures, which are constantly required by you to push forward your homework, to advance the expansion of the railway, have been abandoned. For this, tomorrow you will destroy and destroy the structure of the only alternative, rail instead of traffic addicts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: It's only tomorrow! The topic is only tomorrow!]] The Semmering Base Tunnel fell victim to Mr Pröll's ÖVP veto. The same fate – however not due to veto policy – is encountering the Brenner Base Tunnel. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Koralmbahn is being built for this!]] This means that there are no essential elements to secure the economic sites of Styria and Carinthia, and there is no answer to the transitlawins that come upon us. What's the woman's foreign minister doing? She's not here again, but she was in Carinthia recently. What's she doing? Does she negotiate future projects? - No! She is parloring in the Bärental about her future as possible future Federal Presidency candidate. The same is done by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic. He meets Haider in Styria – not to talk about projects of Styria/Kärnten, no, but about the concerns of Haider, of the ÖVP, of Mrs Scheucher and others even after the 7th century. March to bring again under roof and compartment! Ladies and gentlemen, some of them are not appreciated! The truth is – and this is also due to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic: So much negligence, so much vanity and so much poker game people in Austria have not deserved. A politician with propriety, with a rest of grace, would admit and go the failure. – Mr Federal Chancellor, you lack self-criticism and the rest of grace!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5203	Mr Bösch is next speaker with a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5221	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Trunk, do you know what I really admire about Jörg Haider? – The fact that he manages to be there in every debate. I congratulate him on that! [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the Freeman.]] However, you, Mrs Trunk, have confused today's debate on the future EU Constitution with an appearance on the otherwise very beautiful Klagenfurt market place. I deeply regret that. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Convention has made proposals on what the new Constitution of the Union should look like. We have also debated these proposals sufficiently in the House and in the EU's main committee, I believe. As far as the process was concerned, it would have been so that the Austrian Government would not have negotiated at all in the Intergovernmental Conference. According to their ideas, the Austrian Federal Government there would have said yes and Amen about the draft that the Convention has produced. – This game, ladies and gentlemen, has not been played by the government parties and the members of the government, and I am deeply happy about it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Convention's draft is acceptable over a wide range of routes and will also make great progress for the whole of the Union – but only over long distances, not in all areas. There have been areas that are vital for a state like Austria, even vital for survival in the structures of the newly formed Union. You have ignored this, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition parties. However, this government has not done so, and this is why the Federal Chancellor has also been able to give an impressive report on the state of the negotiations of the Intergovernmental Conference. We have called for rules within the framework of the Presidency, which will include smaller countries, and not that when the future President of the European Union is elected, only large countries will be able to do so and no team presidency will be possible. Yes, even the rotation every half year would have been a more portable variant for us than what has been proposed. The call for each country to put a voteable Commissioner in the Commission is also essential. This claim seems to have been successful now, although everyone has said that even if only one strand of the hardened Constitutional Treaty presented by the Convention is drawn, the whole building will collapse. All these unknowers, ladies and gentlemen, are now being taught a better person. It can be seen that even smaller and medium-sized countries in the European Union can prevail if they contribute accordingly. And we also see, when we look at transit problems, how important it is to get involved in these important decisions in time. Unfortunately, this has so far been missed many times – also by SPÖ Transport Ministers, ladies and gentlemen by the opposition parties! [[Abg. Reheis: What have you been able to move?]] [[Abg. May. Worm:... only for three years!]] Lobbying didn't start three years ago, Mrs. Colleague. Lobbying we should have been doing for ten years! It was your transport ministers who failed. But I don't want to talk about that now, we'll discuss it elsewhere. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This new Treaty will also provide a common defence for a clause of solidarity. The Federal Chancellor has reported that there will be formulations here, which we need to look at even more closely, which we still have to assess with regard to the consequences for Austria. But I cannot imagine that we are becoming a political, an economic, one as you want, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, social union, and then, when a member of this Union is attacked, the others put their hands in the pockets and say: It's none of our business. I simply cannot imagine such a development of the European Union. That is why the debate on a commitment to assist is also correct. You do not have to do here as if there were still the neutrality of 1955, ladies and gentlemen, especially you, Mr President Fischer, of the SPÖ. The neutrality of 1955, the constant neutrality, is repealed by the decision of the Constitutional Article 23f. This is no longer an ever-increasing neutrality when a country can decide whether or not to participate in fighting. The main characteristic of ever-increasing neutrality, ladies and gentlemen, is that a country cannot decide but does not participate in anything from the outset. And that's not the case anymore. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why what is now ashamed of you as a residual neutrality, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, is only a political vehicle for you. [[The red lamb flashes at the speaker's mouth.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] However, I say to you, even in this difficult question, this Federal Government will make it clear, and if it comes to essential formulations also in this Constitutional Treaty, then, of course, the Austrian people will be asked to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5333	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5351	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! I believe that one thing can be very beneficial to the European Constitutional Convention: the great transparency with which the new Constitution has been drawn up, the maximum access for citizens and also the efforts to achieve democracy, not more influence by governments, but more influence and transparency for the citizen and the citizen. I wonder what the Austrian Government's efforts have been in recent weeks, because the result you are presenting today is the opposite. It is no longer a question of transparency and more participation, and of democracy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. There were several occasions: One was Parliament's disillusionment, planned and in writing held by the European finance ministers in the so-called Tremonti paper, and now there is another paper on putting European security policy, not on a democratic basis, but exclusively on the part of ministers and governments. – And that is exactly the wrong direction! This is precisely the opposite of the spirit that the European Constitutional Convention has actually tried to implement, namely a citizens' Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nor can I imagine the great success of each country being a Commissioner. I do not believe that democracy and participation and transparency depend on Austria being able to send a Commissioner. That is a very big misunderstanding! This may be a position that the Federal Government can occupy, but it has no meaning whatsoever in terms of participation, participation, appreciation of the citizen and the citizen. I would have liked you to have used your forces and your energies much more to strengthen citizens' rights in these post-negotiations, if they had already been absolutely necessary. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The question of security policy is indeed a question that is not being answered truthfully at the moment. What I don't understand is the different position among the government parties: On the one hand, the Foreign Minister says that the commitment we have been fighting for since yesterday is not the end, but just a modification of Austrian neutrality. The FPÖ, however, has just explained that neutrality does not exist anymore. This is also in stark contradiction with what EU diplomats said yesterday, namely that just this clause, as it was presented yesterday, is much more stringent than the assistance obligation within the NATO alliance. I wonder what this “modification” – so called by ÖVP politicians – actually means. Federal Chancellor! I would really ask you: If you have spoken of openness and honesty today, you also say that you are on 12 and 13. Indeed, December will put the final line under Austrian neutrality! Have the courage to discuss this openly too! Do you also have the courage to say: Well, then the Austrian population should also be on top of it, and then we also make a referendum on the Constitutional Treaty and all the rights and obligations that are enshrined in it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The supposed improvements you've now negotiated are very vague from my point of view. What happened yesterday in Naples, I judge as follows – and I only briefly gather together what is actually on the table in terms of content –: There is basically no democratic basis for European security policy. The European Parliament is largely disabled on these essential issues. There is no definition of NATO. It only remains this form of a complementary attachment. And the whole alignment of this so-called duty to assist and these clauses, which have now been presented, is a purely military and much less what the Austrians would have wished, namely that the European Union towards a peace union and not a military alliance. You mean so loose and casual today: All right, then we're gonna make a decision between these two compromise variants. However, you have not said that these two compromise variants are the most important ones, namely that they do not contain the orientation for a peace union, and that is unfortunate. And one last thing I very much regret: That the issues of content, the design of Europe, the question of transport, also the question of EURATOM, have had such little importance in recent months for the Austrian representative in the Constitutional Convention, but now also for you. It was now the Germans who managed to put a revision conference for EURATOM on the agenda, and that this will actually happen, and not Austria. And that's unfortunate! I wanted more energy for the design of Europe's content, for an anti-atomic orientation, for a nuclear exit and a proper transport policy – instead of energy for institutional issues, for example, how many posts the Federal Government can send in Brussels in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5453	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5472	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5609	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform the House that Mr Josef Capbe has requested that the Financial Committee report on Mr Magbe's motion for a resolution 245/A. Lapp, ladies and gentlemen, concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act, a period of until 31. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. The vote will take place after the end of this debate. Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that Mr Dieter Broszbe has requested that the Committee on Education report on motion 284/A (E) for Members Brosz, colleagues and colleagues on emergency measures to prevent unwanted and unwise teacher changes during the school year by early retirements be extended to 4. ==References====External links== Also here lies that of five delegates according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This brief debate will take place following the debate on the request for a deadline by Mr Josef Cap, whom I have just announced. The vote will also take place after the end of this debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5656	It is proposed that the debates on points 1 to 3, 5 to 8, 9 to 12, 13 and 14, 20 and 21 and 22 and 23 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. That is why we are doing so. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5681	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration and shape of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, Free 108 minutes and Green 117 minutes. The following speech time agreement was also reached for the debates during the time until 13.00 p.m., which were transmitted by the ORF: one speech per group of 15 minutes each, then the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany at 15 minutes, then Mr Vice-Chancellor at 10 minutes, one speech per group each with 8 minutes, then the Foreign Minister at 8 minutes, and one word per group each with 5 minutes. The remaining speaking time by 1 p.m. will be distributed by the President-in-Office, after consultation with the presidents of the club, to the four political groups in such a way that all political groups can still speak evenly. There is also agreement that actual corrections will only be called after 1 p.m. Above that is the Hohe Haus. We shall therefore proceed to the vote immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (230, B.C.E._Other Organiser Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, Ireland, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (Member States of the European Union) and the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic on the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic to the European Union, together with its final act (286, B.B.) 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (209, e.g._Other Organiser Decision of the Council of the European Union of 25 December 1990 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on trade between the European Economic Community and the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on trade between the European Economic Community and the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on trade between the European Economic Community and the European Economic Community and the European Economic Community and the European Economic Area (OJ L 32, 15.2.1988, p. 1). ==References== September 2002 (2002/772/EC, Euratom) amending the Act establishing general direct elections of 3rd. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 250/A by Dr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Herbert Scheibner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the European electoral order and adopting a Federal Law on the European election 2004 (288 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5751	We now come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Molterer. He'll talk to us for 15 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5775	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Austrian Federal Government! It is not so often that one speaks of a “historic day ” in this House. It does not happen so often that in this House decisions are made from such historical scope as we do today. Ladies and gentlemen! We are saying today about the enlargement of the European Union by ten countries, and today we are saying “Welcome!”, ladies and gentlemen, “Welcome!” to these ten new partners in the European Union! [[General condolences.]] [[Members of the EIA shall keep tables with the word “welcome” in the respective national language of the 10 EU countries concerned.]] We say in full respect “Welcome!” to these ten new valuable and important partners in the European Union, and I would also like to welcome the excellence and representatives of these ten new partner countries, who are accompanying us today in this very important debate and decision. Welcome! [[The addresses on the gallery are welcomed with general applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When the discussion of this important historical decision began, the expression “East enlargement” was actually used in the language at that time. I have never found myself with this language usage and never felt comfortable with it. The use of language has been improved, and this has also been an important symbolic contribution: It was no longer about the enlargement of the East, but about the enlargement of the European Union. And I have been much happier, we have been when this language practice has moved forward to the very core and we can speak today of a reunification of Europe, a reunification, ladies and gentlemen, which actually has a long way to go. Let's think back: It is only a few decades ago that this Europe is actually in ruins, located in ruins according to a terrorist regime of the Nazis, located in ruins after the Second World War. It is a few decades ago that Europe was divided after this Second World War, that borders were created, which actually did not know history, but created the misguided people on this continent. After these few decades – in fact, a short phase in the history of this continent, but a phase that has had dramatic consequences for millions of people on this continent – we are today able to draw up a new chapter of European agreement, a European agreement that actually gives very central and important answers. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the 1950s, this European agreement was sought and found in response to these dramatic events of National Socialism and World War II and the division of this continent. It is so important to me to stress that on a day like today, because it is always necessary to go back to the roots. At the time, responsible statesmen and women have made a very simple consideration and said: If we establish an economic link between the refined nations on this continent, then this economic link can make a very decisive contribution to the wish: Never again war in Europe! [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But it was already clear at that time – and I believe this to be the fascinating idea – that the founding fathers of the European Union, the idea of European unification, have said that it will not be enough for us to be an economic community in the long term, but we need the vision of the political community, of political union in Europe, because only the political objective can ultimately be the answer that has begun the process of economic agreement. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are setting a very central stone in this European integration building, in this building. We include these ten new countries in our European Union. On a day like today, no one can probably separate himself from personal experiences in this context, quite the contrary, probably everybody is going to have these personal experiences. I can talk little about the founding time, I was born in 1955, by chance the day before the Austrian State Treaty was signed, when Leopold Figl said: “Austria is free!” But it's a very deep experience to me, ladies and gentlemen, that was August 1968. I rarely do this that I also talk about personal things publicly – you know that – but in this case it is so important to me. I can remember when my mother came to my bed on this August morning, raised tears in my eyes and said: In Prague the Russian tanks drive! What that meant for my parent generation actually became so real to me this morning in August 1968. That was with a motivator that for me this European agreement is also an emotional matter, which is not only rational and technocratic, but must have this emotion. A Similar Emotion to Me They felt when the Berlin Wall fell in 1989 – a day of joy not only for the people of Germany but for the whole of Europe, ladies and gentlemen. But what do we conclude? – It is so important for me to stress even on a day like today: The idea of European integration is stronger than nationalism. [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP as well as to representatives of the liberals, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The idea of European integration is stronger than human ideologies such as National Socialism. European unification is stronger than undemocratic regimes and systems as it has established Communism in Europe for decades. This is the most important message, ladies and gentlemen: European unification is stronger than all the people we have experienced on this continent. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council.]] That is also the reason why we have always seen this European agreement by the Austrian People's Party as a central part of our political will and our political action. It was in 1956 at a meeting of the ÖVP when Leopold Figl addressed the European unification and membership of Austria as a vision for the future for Austria. It was in 1986 Alois Mock, who, with the entry of the Austrian People's Party into the Federal Government, put the Wieche on membership of the European Union for our Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was during the Austrian Presidency, chaired by the then Foreign Minister Wolfgang Schüssel, when the enlargement negotiations of the European Union began. Why is that so important to people? - We have to answer this question. We must also have the debate on the development of Europe with people. For me, Europe is the peace community. The longest phase of peaceful development on this continent, which has existed in history, has become reality through European unification. This European Union is a Community of States with equal rights regardless of its size or economic strength. This European Union is and must be a community of values. It would not be enough if Europe were a project of any technocrats or bureaucrats that are dedicated to the euro alone, as important as it is. It must be a community of values. This European Union is a security community that also gives people the security perspective. It is a Community that is committed to democracy, and it is a Community that is committed to the market economy. It is precisely these standards, ladies and gentlemen, that must also be those which determine the discussions on the European Convention, on the European Constitution. I am grateful to Federal Chancellor Schüssel and Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner for representing the Austrian positions in the Intergovernmental Conferences so clearly on this European vision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For Austria, enlargement is a very crucial project. Of course, we are in the heart of this continent. Of course, we are affected in a special way. Just think of the possibilities of security cooperation, which now practically lead to greater security for citizens. Or, for example, consider the issue of growth opportunities, employment opportunities. The development of the last two years alone shows that export success to these countries is our work. This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But we have to be clear on a day like today: We do not end a process, but we are starting the process of enlargement. This decision will make enlargement a reality. That means it's not the end of discussions either. On the contrary: Of course, we also need in this enlarged Union the idea of the regional partnership, developed by Benita Ferrero-Waldner, which also brings together the interests of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We need, ladies and gentlemen, the infrastructure initiatives, for example the railway infrastructure, where large investments are ensured in the coming years, so that we can also facilitate the integration of infrastructure. We need to strengthen security cooperation, cross-border projects, support in border regions, such as cooperation in cultural and educational services. However, we also expect – and this is just as clearly said – that open issues can be further addressed and discussed with enlargement. I assume, for example, that the Brussels agreement on nuclear safety is of course applicable and must be fulfilled on point and point, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And I note that historical injustice must also be described as such, must be eliminated and replaced by human rights-compliant solutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But – clearly said – the Austrian People's Party believes that precisely these issues and precisely these projects and objectives with equal partners in a larger European Union are better solved than if these countries and therefore also these problems were left out of the doorstep. No, we open the doors, we say to enlargement, we welcome these new partners. It is in our hands, ladies and gentlemen, that from this European integration process for the future we realize exactly the opportunities that lie within it, namely life opportunities for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5982	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Fischer. Speech time: 15 minutes. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6000	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that the word “historical” should not be inflamed; we must deal with this term sparingly. But it is a historic date when, in the Austrian National Council today, we will make the decision, following great efforts and careful considerations, that we consider enlargement to be correct, if we help the European Union grow from 400 to less than 400 to more than 450 million inhabitants and thus have more inhabitants than the USA and Russia combined, and when we end a state that was the result of the Second World War and shared Europe. This is a very important event. I fully support this historic decision and am pleased that it will be taken by an extremely large majority in this House. [[We welcome the SPÖ and the Greens, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If it comes as we can see from the announcements, namely that the National Council – I have calculated this – will agree with the proposal by about 98 percent, then we must be aware that this majority is probably greater than the majority in the population; for I trust that we can gather a significant majority of the population behind this decision, but we know from surveys that there are also concerns that there are scepticism that there are concerns. Just because we are convinced that our decision is right, we must take these concerns seriously, we must take these people with us, we must show them that we do not yet regard the work as finished, but, like the previous speaker, we have also formulated it, that now a birth act has come about, but that this child still needs to grow, that we must take care of it and treat it carefully. I believe that only if we address the concerns of the population, take them seriously and take our homework seriously, and perhaps admit that this has not been prepared as it should have been prepared, will we be able to increase the credibility with which we want to represent this decision to the population. I would also like to say to you, because, of course, everyone is looking at this from a subjective point of view: Almost on the day exactly 32 years ago, I was at this speaker’s desk for the first time, in December 1971, the term “Utopia” meant a lot to me. The sentence of Martin Walser: The existence of utopia is a prerequisite for the utopia to stop being a utopia! was a very important motive for me. And I must admit, this utopia, that we will stand or sit there once and decide that countries that were then members of the Communist power, even countries that were part of the Soviet Union, such as Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, in our time will be part of a European Union with all these freedoms and free movement between the individual states, is already a big thing. And there is an honest word of thanks to all those who have worked there and have done so, in my opinion. I'm saying this thank you. [[We welcome the SPÖ and the Greens, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we say that we want to take the people with us and convince them of the accuracy of this decision, then my main argument is peace. European history is a history of wars. Many of our continent's spots are filled with blood in the truest sense of the word. Often and often the war was simply the answer to problems. One felt that the war would solve all things: polemos pater panton – the war, the father of everything that can be solved. And that's wrong: Peace is the decisive! Only when peace exists is the basis given to anything or much else, which is important to us. Therefore, my main argument is that the European Union, the European Union, enlargement, is a peace project. The philosophy of war is replaced by an architecture of peace. And the enlargement of the European Union is an extension of the peace zone. This is the strongest argument, and we want to take this argument out to the public and to the public. [[We welcome the SPÖ and the Greens, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Liberals.]] We have also said that the division of Europe will be overcome and that some injustice and some very bad development – dictatorship, terror, insecurity – have been part of the post-war order. Austria was lucky. In the course of the struggle against nationalism, the Red Army has advanced to Austria, but a large part of Austria has remained free of this occupation, other occupation powers have had. We have had the power and the will to a common government, we were able to establish a democratic system from 1945 onwards. Other countries have not had this happiness. I'm thinking about Hungary: First the dictatorship of Horthy, then it was brought into war, then a short phase of hope and democracy – I think of Anna Kethly – and then again the Soviet occupation power, then 1956, then the precipitation of the Hungarian revolution. – You have to imagine how much hope there has developed. I could thus tell the history of Poland, just as dramatic, also the history of the Czechoslovak Republic with the very special brutalities in the processes of the 1950s, Slansky and so on, and the events of 1968. And then the opportunity to change the whole revolution, the opportunity to change it. I like to remember the cutting of the Iron Curtain by Alois Mock and Gyula Horn – a symbolic event. I remember Prague, Vaclav Havel, Alexander Dubcek et cetera. I remember the fall of the Berlin Wall, the word of Willy Brandt. I also recall the many hopes we have made for young democracies, the promises made by the Presidents when they visited these countries. Thus expectations have been awakened. – Now this process comes to a conclusion; it is a fair conclusion, not to the advantage of the one side and to the other side, but to a conclusion in the interest of all, if we use the opportunities if we focus on what still needs to be done. I would like not only to highlight the historical dimension but also to say that we must also highlight the social dimension, that there are good proposals from trade unions, social politicians, government leaders, government members, that this project will live, thrive and flourish if we take social cohesion seriously, if we consider people not only as a cost factor on two legs, but also say: A society that is to work, which is to be accepted, must also be a social society. And we feel connected in a special way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Another thing: Of course, there are also institutional issues related to enlargement. We have discussed them and will continue to discuss them – they have also been the subject of a current hour. I would just like to say the following: I think all of them. in this House have an understanding of the position, yes, we even demand that we take our stand if some states that are very robust and firm are so much over the interests of other countries, especially smaller ones. Ladies and gentlemen! This is legitimate and right, and this is what the people of us expect – I believe this is also true of security policy. Nor can it be on matters of security policy, security architecture and security cooperation that the three largest NATO countries, Great Britain, Germany and France, put a text on the table and Austria says yes and Amen to that. This is not possible, ladies and gentlemen. – If you want, I say: [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This would not be possible if it were tried. According to what we have heard about this, I believe that much still needs to be considered and a great deal of consideration is being given to those countries that are not bound by the NATO and who do not wish to enter into an alliance obligation, because, as in the other areas, we also need to pay great attention to the European security architecture that the interests of the NATO countries and the interests of the non-connected or neutral states must be taken together and merged into a denominator that all can agree with their constitutional regulations. That is the task or the goal that we must set ourselves if we take our constitution seriously – and we all do so very surely. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So that there is no misunderstanding: I believe that solidarity plays a very important role, a very important factor, but the art of politics will be to bring security interests, cooperation, solidarity and the respective constitutional systems of each Member State to a meaningful common denominator. We need a policy of solidarity, which can be carried by all 15 states with their interests and, subsequently, by all 25 States with their interests and their constitutional regulations. I would like to say this quite clearly on this issue, and I hope that negotiations and cooperation with our friends in Sweden, Finland and Ireland will be achieved in order to achieve a reasonable common denominator. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, and in the knowledge that there are still problems, we need to work, but based on the great opportunities there are, on the great opportunities that lie in the process of European integration, on the great opportunities to strengthen social cohesion in Europe, and on the great opportunities we have in the area of our security, we also welcome the ten new Member States of the European Union very warmly from this point of view. [[It is a pleasure to see the SPÖ and the Greens, as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] We can, I believe, promise the Austrian people that in our efforts we will not paralyze the success of the integration process, and we offer the new states a genuinely fair partnership and wish the joint European project common successes and a peaceful future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6176	I call Mr Scheibner. Speech time: 15 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6195	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent weeks and months, we have often discussed the project of a common Europe here in the House, and I believe that all here in the House see the vision – perhaps even more than a vision – of this project of a common, a united, a peaceful Europe as a very special and important topic, perhaps one of the most important issues of European and Austrian politics. We also see this, and I believe – and this was also mentioned by my previous speakers – the aim of the peace union is so important for this continent. In recent centuries, Austria has also been the scene of terrible wars, of military conflicts. On our continent so much has been built up of cultural, economic, social – and so much of it has been destroyed again by wars. One of the success stories of European integration following the terrible experiences of the Second World War is that within the European Union, this European Community, wars, military conflicts have become impossible in the long run, that there are no longer any alliance agreements on time, but that there is a permanent signal that the Member States of the European Union are carrying out their conflicts peacefully and that they are being built up together – and not mutually destroyed! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that it is also a signal that the European Union will not go out and go out of a military threat to the environment, but rather – on the contrary – that the European Union also sees it as one of its most important objectives to pursue security policy, i.e. to deal with crises outside Europe or within Europe where it is necessary, because, as we all know, crises and wars outside the continent also have a direct impact on Europe, on the Union and thus also on Austria, and because the European Union also sees itself as a community of values. That is why I believe that this very idea of a security union – and we have already discussed it today – must be put first of all in further negotiations and discussions, because without any certainty we do not need to break our heads on other projects. We see it at many crisis scenes and should also be through the stories of our fathers – or with me: Grandfathers – represent what it means to have to live in uncertainty. In this context, I see a positive signal from this enlargement: that countries can be integrated into this European family, which had to wait longer for a 100% liberation; countries whose population had to wait longer than we could until it could live in a democracy; Countries whose population had to wait longer than we could for them to benefit from global progress. We left behind a terror regime in 1945, overcome terror and undemocracy, and were able to build this country in peace and prosperity – our predecessor generations. The countries that are now about to become members of the European Union have had to wait for decades for this opportunity. That's why I'm holding it. for positive that with the Baltic States for the first time also three countries, formerly the Soviet Union – not voluntarily, but compulsively! – have been listening to members of this Europe. I think it is positive if I see how many countries have taken a good turn here, even in our neighbourhood, such as Slovenia or Hungary, also Slovakia, which we have long considered very critical of its domestic policy development. I think it is very positive that the European Union in Cyprus has interpreted the criteria for membership very far and - although this country is still divided and there have been security problems - has said: Yes, we are including this country in the European Union, but as a unity, and with it we have also given an order to help overcome this division. Even though we are pleased that all these signals are being sent, we must ask whether all the principles of this project and this vision of a common, united Europe have been fully implemented and implemented. This Europe must also be a Europe for people on this continent, the interests of lobbys and interests must not be a priority of our efforts and reflections, but we must pay attention to what are the needs, requirements, but also concerns and fears of people in Europe, when we consider the project of enlargement and greater integration into the European Union. Especially the last discussions on the transit agreement and the stability criteria show that we still have a very, very wide way ahead of us. In transit, one has not observed the concerns, fears, needs and needs of a country, namely Austria. There 14 countries of the European Union have crossed the interests of a Member State. The European Parliament, as a representative of all the Member States, of all the people of this Union, has not carried out this task either. So when it comes to making this Union democratic, representing the concerns and interests of people in this country, we still have a very, very broad way to implement the vision of Europe for people, for citizens. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We can discuss a lot about the preparation of enlargement, whether all the criteria have been met – there is a progress report that shows many shortcomings in many countries, especially in the security field, in the fight against corruption, and also in the question of the extent to which the economy in the countries has applied to this project – but we also need to critically ask whether the European Union has already been sufficiently concerned with it and prepared for it, for example with regard to institutional reform. I think it is really worrying that you are only now – very, very late! – begins to think about these preparations, but one – and this is symbolic – has not even begun: the nonsense that, for example, the European Parliament and many institutions are divided into several locations in Europe and there is a migration circus – every week between Strasbourg and Brussels – and the abundance of bureaucratic barriers that oppose efficient work. This is symbolic of the problem of institutional reorientation to new challenges that we face in this European Union. As an Austrian, as an Austrian Parliament, we have of course also called for the Austrian interests to be represented primarily towards Brussels and for the risks of enlargement to be taken into account. There were a number of problems that we have addressed – some have been solved, I would like to make a positive contribution here. For example, a suitable response to the legitimate fear that enlargement would create a further burden on the labour market could be found through the transition period of seven years in free movement. On the question of environmental standards and the problem of border nuclear power stations, I see this more critically. If we have discussed Bohunice and Temelin, this has put not only the liberals but also representatives of other parties here as a fundamental requirement for enlargement, for the inclusion of the respective country into space. We have made progress – not a question – but we have not come where we want to go: that we have security guarantees, not only verbally, but in concrete terms – for example with Temelin – and also a step further towards a nuclear-free Europe; we have remained in the middle. Today, 900 000 signatures under the popular desire for Temelin are also a task for the Austrian National Council to take this issue further into account and to support it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] When it comes to dealing with the criteria of the European Union, such as the Copenhagen decisions, human rights should also be observed here. And if it has been said here – and I stress this – that the European Union is a union of values, then these values must also be applied to the new candidate countries, i.e. that human rights should be implemented without delay by all the Member States of the European Union without any compromise. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You know, ladies and gentlemen, here we see problems, at least in the case of a candidate country. We believe it is contrary to these criteria of human rights, to the criteria of the Copenhagen decisions, that the Czech Republic still has legal stocks in its legal order with the Beneš decrees and the rise of the amens, which have been the basis and justification for the murder and expulsion of hundreds of thousands of innocent people after the Second World War. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This is not a question of arguing against a country. This is not a question of argumenting against the people of this country, but here it is all about saying: You are welcome, but you must also meet the criteria we apply to these human rights standards. It cannot be difficult for a democratic country to say – as we have done for the times for which we have shared responsibility and which have been the very dark times in this century –: Yes, that was wrong, and we have lifted up those stocks that have punished this injustice! We are drawing a conclusion and thus creating a basis for a common democratic co-existence of the States in this region as well. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I don't want to quote anything from that time. Anyone who reads these factual reports can only be unscathed about the horror and the conditions that ruled at that time. Only one example from December 1945, that is, after the whole Progroms and atrocities, which are also discussed in the public, are a fact-finding report: A mother, with her three-year-old feverish child, who has diphtheria, goes to Prague on foot and pleads in a hospital for medical help for this child. This aid is denied with the argument: There's no medical help for Germans here, that's forbidden! After two and a half hours, this child dies. A small example... – Mr colleague, this is where you should avoid calls! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] – A small example that shows what happened back then. Today, Mr President, we should all say: Just as there was Nazi grievances, just as there was Greuel before and after World War II, the injustice of refusing a mother’s medical help for her sick child was just because she was German. We're not asking anymore. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, we will show a differentiated voting behaviour here today. Our group will vote in favour of enlargement, because we see it as an opportunity in the sense of security policy and because we are voting here on a package of ten Member States. But two of our interlocutors – displaced and environmental spokespersons – will send a signal with their votes against, to express that we are further represented in solving these problems, that we are not yet meeting the criteria on human rights, Beneš decrees, and on Temelín. This should be a responsibility for the entire Austrian Parliament. This common Europe has an opportunity, but only if we do not follow the non-fulfilment of criteria with the twinkling of eyes, but note that this vision of a common, united and peaceful Europe and the co-existence of peoples in peace is based on the principles of human rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6359	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. The speaking time is 15 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6377	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner, the refusal of medical assistance to a mother's child is undoubtedly incompatible with the citizens and human rights, but I would be more likely if such a criticism were expressed and we did not also put families on the street in Austria – without shelter, without accommodation, without support in ongoing asylum proceedings. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is a strange comparison, Mr Cot. That's really below your level! That doesn't correspond to your level!]] – Let us put my level down, Mr Scheibner. Of course, we are talking about the ratification of the Treaties with the new accession countries, and here I join Wilhelm Molterer and Heinz Fischer: It is a great day in the history of Parliament, in Austrian history, in European history. Yes, it is true, this ratification is a great day! The enlargement of the EU-15 to 25 can hardly be overestimated in its historical significance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nevertheless, it seems to me that not only myself or certain commentators, but also in the public, do not want to put up with such a real enthusiasm for this question. I would like to talk about this discrepancy between the great day on the one hand, which we all, almost all, minus two, welcome in this House, and on the other hand to the dissatisfaction with the state of the European Union; and there should be nothing to imagine, even the new accession countries. Welcome to the club! But we want to realistically assess which club they join here. We are pleased about them, and I think that Europe will only benefit from them. But that this house is not all right, I would like to talk about it. The Greens have been glowing supporters of the enlargement of the Union from the very beginning, and I think we have also been with the First... – Sure! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Call the ÖVP: A short memory!]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: You voted against!]] [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: Petrovic, Voggenhuber!]] Sorry, I am talking about the enlargement of the European Union. I am not speaking from 1994 – by the way, one year in which I have not yet been to Parliament. In the relationship, the Greens learned very quickly. I am not going to repeat in detail everything that has already been said with the right pathos and will certainly still be said. The importance of this project's peace policy: Yes, there will be no Prague 1968, there will be no Budapest 1956 anymore, there will be no Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania 1940. The enlargement of the European Union is also a contribution to this. It hasn't stood out yet. As yet, Macedonia, Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Albania are not a member of the European Union, and here, I believe, we will have to focus on foreign policy, support, not least financial support in the coming years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am of course pleased that the enlargement of the Union will widen this area of so-called European values if we want to understand among them the rule of law, the rule of law, the emphasis on civil rights, human rights, minority rights of all kinds, not least the enforcement of higher environmental standards than has been the case so far. All of this is important, even if in each individual case not every member of the EU-15 has been or is an illustrious model. I recall, for example, the freedom of the media in Italy. I also think it is our task to remind politicians that Austria has always been a immigration, immigration country, depending on the historical situation. Austria was a net immigration country until the 1960s, and Austria has been a net immigration country since the 1970s at the latest, and that will remain the same, honourable colleagues from the FPÖ. This will remain so; it is already in the Austrian interest that it remains that way. We will not have the problem of being “foreigned ” to speak in your terminology. On the contrary: In ten years' time, we will have the problem of getting too few immigrants to satisfy our economic needs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another note: Austria is the economic winner of this enlargement, Austria was the economic winner of the fall of the Iron Curtain in 1989, and Austria will also be the profiter of this enlargement of the Union. But if it were not so, if we were not so favoured by this geographical situation, by this fate, if we wanted to, then we would probably also be in favour of the enlargement of the European Union. I still hope, even though Mr Scheibner taught me before, that I would hope and expect until the last second, but at least hope that there will be a unanimous decision on the issue of enlargement today. [[Abg. Scheibner: That would be a false signal!]] I do not understand why two members of the FPÖ are refusing to do so. I can't believe this is about something different than continuing to insist on anti-Czech resentments. I'm sorry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Did you understand Voggenhuber?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You didn't listen at all!]] Despite the historic day, why does it not want to put up with a great euphoria, despite this historical significance of this decision? I believe that this is primarily related to the situation within the EU-15, the previous club members. We are now sleeping in the fourth year of a weak economic situation, and OECD forecasts for 2004/2005 are anything but soothing: 1,8 percent real growth for the euro zone as a whole in 2004. This will not be enough to automatically reduce unemployment. The forecast values for Germany, France and Italy are slightly lower. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: They are quite good for Austria!]] Mr President, I should like to thank I am not satisfied with all that is less than 2.5 percent of what is expected to increase productivity in industry, industry, the services sector. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: In relation!]] If that pleases you, I have to take note of it. I'm sure I'm not satisfied with that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this context also an open word on the so-called Stability Pact at European level. I am not referring to the Stability Pact for the Balkans, which is good and beautiful, but to the so-called Stability Pact for Deficit and Debt Development. This Stability Pact is dead, is politically dead, since France and Germany have not received from the ECOFIN Council any conditions in accordance with the provisions of the Stability Pact. So that we don't misunderstand: I think that's good! This Stability Pact does not deserve its name! He never deserved him, he was a miscarriage from the beginning, and we all know who we owe it to. That was then Finance Minister Waigel of the CSU in Germany, who thus tried to frighten his German citizens from the accession of Italy to monetary union. Failed! But just as the death of the Stability Pact has come about, it must cause an evil one. Let's not think about it. If Portugal had not complied with the rules of the Stability Pact if Austria had failed to comply with the rules of the Stability Pact, we would have felt the whole hardness of the procedure, certainly! But if Germany, France, perhaps the next year Italy does not comply with the rules, then you press an eye. That's not how it is, of course! It's good that the Stability Pact is over. In a monetary union where the interest rate policy and the exchange rate policy of national autonomy have been removed, there is no need for less flexibility in fiscal policy, but more. And this has to be stated in the minds of our politicians that we need a reform of the Stability Pact. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But the way in which the Stability Pact was carried to the grave makes a great dissatisfaction and also distrust of the development of the Union feel. If the school makes that we have rules, even in very other areas, wherever – it can also be rules of defence – which all have to comply with, only the great ones do not, then that is not the European Constitution that I imagine. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The European Finance Ministers have responded to this situation in a way that can only be shaken. They do not comply with the rules, namely the Stability Pact – well so, I say, on the one hand – and, on the other, they make a statement in their Council conclusions in which they acknowledge the Stability Pact. Well, what's that? – You will also join this club, ladies and gentlemen from the ten new Member States. The EU has just proved to be a state-owned nation in which the Fachterlobbies can win, the Austrian and the Fachter lobbys of the EU-14. [[Abg. Wattaul: Go, stop!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: An insult to everyone!]] I don't understand these calls. You welcome the fact, Mr Mitterlehner of the ÖVP, that there has been a great deal of progress on the subject and that any transit limitation for trucks should, in fact, be made impossible for transport policy at all? [[Abg. Eder: Of course!]] That's what you welcome? [[Abg. Eder: Of course!]] That can't be true! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And what we are experiencing at European level in the Council discussions in Naples, Brussels and so on, you cannot really agree on the future of the EU. How did the draft Convention for the European Constitution come about? On the basis of the dissatisfaction, the dissatisfaction that the Nice Agreements do not constitute sufficient preparation for the enlargement of the Union. That's how it came about! And now, individual states, including those from the EU-15, including those from the EU-10, the circle of the New, raise concerns that we are going to end up at Nice again. Ladies and gentlemen! This cannot be the meaning of the debate on the European Constitution! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am also not satisfied with the Austrian position. I am right if Austria sends a Commissioner back to Brussels. But that's the priority? Hasn't Commissioner Fischler brought this to our attention over three years: A Commissioner in Brussels is not the national emissary, not the national representative, but the Commissioner is the guardian of the Treaties, with the other members of the Commission. Fischler just pointed this out. In our opinion, Fischler has made excellent proposals for the reform of the European agricultural policy. Who supported him? Austria, maybe? I didn't notice that. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Sure!]] It has been sabotaged by Austria as it has by other representatives in the European Union. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If Mrs Ferrero-Waldner says on Sunday that the responsibilities of these new Commissioners are not so important that one could also be responsible for flooding, then I would suggest: First, let's make a government reform in Austria! Mrs Ferrero-Waldner is cordially invited to become the Federal Minister for Disasters and to show Brussels what meaning this has and how well it works. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's below your level, Professor!]] Again: It is a great day for the Austrian Parliament, also for Europe. I would have been pleased if Austria had been the first country to ratify it. In the meantime we are no longer among the first, we are not among the last, we are somewhere in the middle – a pity actually. But that doesn't matter: Welcome! And we hope for your support in the new larger Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6690	Next came the President of the Federal Chancellor. Speaking time is 15 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6708	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed We welcome you very warmly on this historic day, even if some of the statements by Mr Van der Bellen did not give the impression that this was actually about enlargement. I think internal policy can be discussed in relation to another subject and at another time. I believe that there are plenty of possibilities for this. Today we are talking about enlargement, and in my view it is actually a great day for Austria and Europe, but above all for the ten candidates themselves. I came to Parliament as a small national council in 1975, and my constituency was on the Czech border at that time. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] At that time we had the Iron Curtain, no thriving economic and cultural relations across the border – that was actually a real dead end. I have been praised as Minister of Economic Affairs in 1989, a few weeks and months before the Iron Curtain collapsed and we have actually received an incredible opportunity with the opening of the borders, which, I believe, we have also benefited very well. The economic data always prove that. I was then in 1994 in the negotiating delegation with Alois Mock, and I am the remaining witnesses of the difficult negotiations of that time. By the way, today, we are ratifying the enlargement treaty with the Ten by a far greater majority than at the time our own enlargement treaty – which was then 141 to 40 – I regard as a very large symbol of the progress made in European thinking and integration, which we ourselves have done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I was Foreign Minister in 1998 when, under my chairmanship in the Council of Foreign Ministers, the negotiations began for the first time. And now, 2004, ten years after our own accession, the ten new countries are added. I think, in these 15 years, 1989 to 2004, in one generation, an incredible European development, an Austrian development and, of course, in our neighbouring countries something that no one would have hoped to do at that time. Some speakers in front of me have already said it: Some countries that are now entering the Union are also experiencing their first accession for the first time: Slovakia, Slovenia, the Baltic countries. These are historic meetings that must not be underestimated in their significance! And especially we Austrians, I think rightly, always claim to understand these countries better than others, because we have a common external border of 1,260 kilometres. We ourselves have experienced a fate with occupation, with insecurity, and we have the neighborhood of these countries – the good today's neighborhood, formerly a rather critical and difficult neighborhood. I therefore believe that we can really look forward to this day today. I am therefore very proud to have accompanied this path and to be able to accompany it, especially since this is a symbol of the European Union's ability to do both: to promote both the deepening of the Union and enlargement. Remember that we are discussing the deepening of a European constitution at the same time – it is a coincidence, but nothing is by chance – at the same time the very successful introduction of the euro a few years ago. Professor Van der Bellen, you as an economist would have to know that a Stability Pact – a credible Stability Pact, one with teeth – was and remains an absolute prerequisite! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At that time we gave up our schilling and the Germans the D-Mark – stable currencies. And at the time, we promised that we would not let the reins be cut, that we would like to combine the different economic cycles that existed and exist and develop a common regulatory system. This can be improved – not a question – but there are no major economists who say – and this also applies to the new ones who are coming in, who also need rules of play – a common monetary union does not need credible rules of play. Therefore: For these new, improved rules we will fight – but that there should be no one, I am not available for that, Professor! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are this new Europe and we are committed to this new Europe! We are glad that it succeeds, and of course we also know that some problems are associated with it. We are also investing in the solution of these problems, which are, so to speak, our homework, for example, in the infrastructure. Hubert Gorbach becomes much more competent and inventive than I can provide information about how many billions have been flown into this infrastructure since our own accession. And that makes sense, because we really want to benefit from the advantages of the location, now that we are new in the heart of Europe! The second is: Of course, we also acknowledge the need to invest in regional policy, in border regions, in combating crime, in common security, which is at our heart, in better environmental standards, in social cohesion, in cohesion in this new Europe. This will not be so easy, because the differences will be greater by enlargement than they are in some areas today. I therefore believe that this European Union and this European idea live. But I am the last one who, like Herbert Scheibner and Willi Molterer, does not advocate that some problems have not yet been solved. Yes, we would have expected, even in the sense of the good neighbourhood, to be resolved in a good European spirit in time, perhaps in some gestures, some still open bilateral issues, perhaps even before this Parliament decision, because one thing is clear to me: This European Union did not actually come from economic considerations, but above all because the people in Europe were satisfied with the constant wars and struggles, hatreds, nationalism. And all that was done in suffering, the terror against Jews, against dissidents, against Roma, Sinti, against believers in various areas, all that was done by Communism, was deliberately raised and raised to a whole new European level by the European Union. And that is why it is important for me, as a convinced European, that this Union does not forget that human rights are indivisible, that we do not simply have history. Not to mention – even the history, which may be unpleasant to some and which raises some national burning questions. I believe that we must do this in the interests of these values. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I'm holding it with Winston Churchill, who said: “When the present attempts to sit on the past to justice, it will lose the future.” And that is why we want to take part – not in self-righteousness, but in a new neighboring spirit, in a good European spirit – in solving these open bilateral issues. And I know that in Prague or in other countries politicians – my Visavis, a Vladimír Špidla, or a Cyril Svoboda or others – think equally that they also have to overcome shadows and difficulties and barriers in their own ranks; and we should put together gestures that help to overcome this, and not deepen these barriers. That is the crucial point. That is why, I believe, today's decision by overwhelming majority, the expected decision of the National Council is a good symbol in this direction. Allow me to address another point here: Heinz Fischer referred to the security issues, including Members of the Glawish, and it is important to me that we clear out a few things there. I'm not in favour of getting involved with the bi-husband here, and I'm not interested in getting up with them again. That's not necessary! This is supposed to be a good, objective discussion. And, honestly, I cannot really see what the very high quality difference between the proposal put forward by Frattini at the Intergovernmental Conference and what Members have to say. One yesterday presented at a press conference. I read it before: ‘In the event of an armed attack on the territory of a Member State, the other Member States shall, in accordance with... Charter of the United Nations all in its power... Help and support.” – This is the first text from the Italians. The second text, the Caspar A proposal has been put forward: When a Member State is attacked..., the Union will ‘be called upon to:... Member States shall apply all the means available to them to prevent aggression. At the request of the Union, Member States shall take the measures taken within the framework of their... Support opportunities until aggression is resisted. The Security Council... will be informed immediately”. - Quote. I would say quite openly: These are very reasonable elements. If you put this together, I trust you if you want a good solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Therefore: No mention that anyone wants to bury neutrality, no speech that this is the end of a constitutional provision with us, but the openness that we want to develop something common in a good European spirit, just as we have made enlargement a success. I would also like to thank everyone at this point very much, because many have contributed to this, especially our Foreign Minister, who has had the overall coordination in this enlargement process and who has achieved this with wisdom, with caution and with great toughness and ultimately great success. Thank you and your team, because [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] This, of course, involves a large number of officials, of outside staff, in diplomatic representations. I would like to thank all the Members of the House and congratulate them on having contributed, at their level, to the parliamentary contact groups with the Member States, in which contacts with the European Parliament, to the fact that this has become a truly common Austrian, red and white red and at the same time European concern. I would like to thank the economy which has made an incredible success story in the few years since the fall of the Iron Curtain from this opening of borders. And do not forget that our exports and imports have tripled at this time that today, just behind France, Hungary is already our fourth largest trading partner and after that the Czech Republic has already landed in sixth place, that today we can export more goods to Slovenia than to Russia! Thank you to all those who have contributed to the fact that this great concern has become a real political, cultural, peaceful and economic success! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I conclude by admitting that many problems have not yet been solved a hundred percent. But every one of these problems, whether it is peace in Europe, on this war-stricken continent, whether it is the higher environmental standards, the fight against crime, the commitment to human rights or the social cohesion, all these issues are, of course, easier to solve in the Union, in an enlarged Union with Austrian participation than on its own or outside, or by leaving others outside at the door. This must, I believe, also be our common concern: that we not only have to make Europe an inclusive and transparent democratic process, but also that we keep the doors open, that we express what is happening, that we also develop the openness that was given in the past. I conclude with a quote from a speech by Hugo von Hofmannsthal, who outlined a “idea Europe” and said: Whoever says Austria says “thousand years of ringing around Europe, a thousand years of mission through Europe and a thousand years of faith in Europe”. Therefore, we should not make ourselves smaller than we are – neither geographically nor from our historical, present or future significance. But we can play this role much more than if we hold together and pool our forces for something – and do not resist them in a small-cared fight against each other and with each other. In this sense, thank you for the approval to be expected today! Good cooperation with the new candidates! We look forward to her!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6916	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time shall be 10 minutes in accordance with the agreement. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6934	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! It was the Swiss historian Jacob Burckhardt who once said: “The essence of history is the transformation.” High house! We write history today, and it has a lot to do with transformation – one, as I mean, important for Austria. Although a great challenge is associated with this, we also know that from history, it is also possible to have a great opportunity to do so, which we should not miss out on and do not want to be unused. Writing history also has a lot to do with responsibility. And as we have already heard from the words of the clubman Scheibner, the FPÖ as a government party has always taken this responsibility very seriously and will also demonstrate this in the voting behaviour today. We are not opposed to the enlargement of the European Union and will, of course, not hinder the collapse of Europe, nor, of course, prevent it. However, as a government party, the FPÖ will continue to demonstrate and live with responsibility a constructive but not uncritical attitude towards the EU, in the interest of the population as part of this Union. [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Austria itself, after the fall of the Iron Curtain in 1989, became a country in the centre of Europe, and economic, social and also scientific as well as cultural relations could be intensified again. We are therefore at the heart of Europe, and this, of course, makes this challenge particularly striking. I can remind you: Four of the new candidate countries bordering Austria, 1 300 kilometres of common mainland border – that is the longest route of all EU member countries with the new, that is a path from Vorarlberg to Vienna and from Vienna back to Vorarlberg – and I know what I am talking about, as Mr Kopf, who now grins. That's a very long way! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This central situation will, of course, make economic use of us, and we have already heard that the export-oriented companies are already aware of and prepared for this benefit. But, ladies and gentlemen, not everything that shines is gold, and vice versa. The enlargement of the European Union also presents us with great challenges. For example, the pre-accession countries in the fields of employment, social systems, cultural awareness-raising, awareness-building can be considered as the main challenges of the Union's enlargement process. We have adopted these challenges, ladies and gentlemen, to improve, to enlargement, to stabilise peace in a large Europe with its future 450 million citizens – and now to deal with them. When I say that the challenges are diverse, I am of course also referring to the economic challenges with the new border-free neighbours. The fact that Slovakia is 1st. In January 2004, a flat-tax tax system will be introduced, or other candidate countries will provide tax incentives to set up operations, mixed with lower wage costs there, or Bratislava will be expanded as a flight destination and become a real competitor, these are economic challenges which we, as a political responsible person, can well observe and, in the sense of our SMEs, our small and medium-sized enterprises, but of course also the industry, we will also have to respond to. That seems very, very important to me. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing, if I speak today about enlargement and among these ten candidate countries, the Czech Republic is also, of course, the candidate countries, is not missing, namely that I also address and mention the issue of Temelín, which is a convincing and ever loud opponent of nuclear energy. I also see here an important task of Austria: not only with good example, that is to say, nuclear-free, but also with conviction for a non-atomic Europe. This must be the objective and must remain the goal – even if the Czech Republic is a member of the European Union. For Austria, it is crucial that discussions with the Czech Republic with regard to the zero variant for the Temelín nuclear power plant are continued intensively. We hope that the principle of sustainability, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources will be taken into account in the final energy concept of the Czech Republic. As Minister of Transport, of course, I am a constant companion to the transport implications of this enlargement. The liberalisation of cross-border road freight transport is also one of these particular challenges. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not surprising that in recent months I have discussed and prepared a lot with them very intensively in addition to my visits to Brussels, Luxembourg and Strasbourg – you know why, the word “transit” – about these candidate countries that bordered Austria. Whether it was Jakob Presecnik from Slovenia, Pavol Prokopovic from Slovakia, István Csillag from Hungary or Milan Šimonowský from the Czech Republic: I have discussed and discussed with my colleagues the cross-border transport routes, both rail and road, but also shipping routes. As Minister of Transport, I think I have to do that, knowing that truck traffic in Austria will increase by 70 percent by the year 2015. One third of these, it is estimated, will arise due to the opening of the east. In other words, we are well advised when we are intensively preparing environmentally friendly modes of transport, such as rail, and indeed cross-border. I'll do that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am just saying by the way that we need – and we will talk about it tomorrow – of course a suitable, internationally competitive company ÖBB. We have also ensured that €1.2 billion can be invested annually in a new railway infrastructure. All of these are measures which, of course, are prepared nationally, but above all internationally, are being accelerated by me and, of course, implemented in order to best meet mobility requirements in the context of the growing Europe. Only a few figures: For the infrastructure offensive for rail and road modes, 20 billion € have been spent between 1999 and 2006. It points out that by 2010 even €32 billion will be well established, well invested. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is a fairy tale!]] I also have, ladies and gentlemen, against the background of the 1. In May 2004, in the light of the accessions of the new countries, the aim is to speed up the implementation of GVP projects, i.e. general transport plan projects, especially in the east of Austria. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Infrastructure fault!]] A working group I set up in spring has therefore examined important cross-border transport projects and has examined whether private investors, private capital can accelerate the achievement of this objective. 2.4 billion €, four cross-border projects will be launched faster than foreseen in the CSF as a result of this working group. This will benefit our economy, but above all our population, integration, Europe's integration, enlargement. We will deal with this task. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to mention that, of course, we are still missing the requirements at European level to be environmentally friendly, and we will be deeply involved in this discussion. Our clubman Scheibner has said a lot about the Beneš decrees. Let me say this because the speaking time is too short again, just three sentences, Mr President: The debate on the subject of Beneš decrees at national and European level seems to me to be important because a country that comes into a community in which the peace is the ultimate objective, called the highest credo and today is also called, must be clear that a clear opinion on the injustice that happened at that time is also being delivered. We also expect this to continue, particularly from a new Member State, namely the Czech Republic. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, I can sum up and comment on this historic step, this change with a quote from Conrad Adenauer, who once said: "The unity of Europe was a dream of a few. She became a hope for many. She is a necessity for all of us today.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7028	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. The speaking time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7046	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers! Today – many previous speakers have already pointed out this – is a truly historic hour. For myself I would like to say that I am happy and proud to be able to participate in this act today and to be able to give my yes with conviction to ratification of EU enlargement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The history of European integration is a success story in several ways. First of all, it is a political success story: After two World Wars, there is a unique combination of the so different countries in Europe and has been bringing us ever-ending political stability for 50 years. This is also an economic success story. History teaches us that Europe's prosperity has increased in recent years, that people had more income, and that it made it easier to live together peacefully. It is also true, however, that this enlargement, which is not the first, but the fifth, is an essential and further milestone to a united Europe. This is a unique round of enlargement. Ten countries with a total of 74 million people in the European Union join. In particular, the countries of the former Eastern bloc are being renewed, and former dictatorships are returning to the common house of Europe. That's a reason for joy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Countries that have been locked out of economic development for 50 years, from prosperity, freedom and peace, are returning. Austria is probably a good contemporary witness, because it is very close to the former communist dictatorships and people have taken a lot of personal impressions. I remember having relatives in the Eastern countries. As a child, I was there several times. I will never forget how this transition from a free European country to the dictatorship of the East was: this deplorable procedure at the border, this searching of luggage for magazines and books. For us, these things were completely incomprehensible. This forced exchange of money at absurd exchange rates! And I will never forget the death line on the border, which was something terrible and terrible for me as a child. All in all, it was already possible to feel the arbitrariness and extravagantness of higher, other powers as well as the self-overhead-non-defense-powers. I will never forget this incredible relief I felt when I returned home again in a free, Western country and enjoy things that were of course for us, but which did not exist over there: Electricity at any time, the heating has worked, the things of daily life were present – all we wanted was of course. This is getting longer – thank God since 1989! – also granted to the enlargement countries, but they will now be part of us. In my opinion, this is simply and simply a day of full joy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to quote a witness here, Professor Andrei Plesu, the former Romanian cultural and foreign minister, who was probably in one of the poorest countries of Europe and who gave the ceremony address to the Salzburg Festival and put it under the motto “Freude – East and West”. He said: "The European Union will, among other things, also mean a union of our joys, a harmonisation of the experience of joy in the East with the experience of joy in the West. We will learn to rejoice at the same things. But above all, we will learn – east as well as west – to rejoice at each other. But I am also firmly convinced that we have a common basis to rebuild a joy that can be shared by both sides. We must restore the European unity which brought about a collapse of the Second World War. We need to build a house where we can live together. And reconstruction – as difficult as it may be – is one of the greatest pleasures of the people.” – Such a witness. That, I think, is a good answer to the melancholy speech by Mr Van der Bellen. We already know that not everything is always so simple, Mr. Colleague – no question! We also need to further develop, but I think fear and melancholy have actually brought very little. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We know about the fears of the people, especially – it has already been mentioned – also about the fears that the labour market will be out of balance, on which the Federal Government has also found an answer, namely to negotiate these seven years as a restricted access to the labour market. We know the fear of people from increasing crime, but we also have to say that the border is moving further to the East, the Schengen external border remains. In reality, the best preparation is probably a better cooperation between police forces and, of course, a growth in prosperity, where much of this crime will no longer take place. There is also the fear that Austria's economic location will lose attraction. But there, I think, the Austrian economy has shown that it has the right answers. Austria is the fifth largest investor in the East. Austria has quadrupled its exports since 1989, bringing the trade surplus to €2.2 billion. That is the only real answer to the fear, the answer can only be to take advantage of the opportunities. Enlargement is a logical development in Europe, and it is above all an extension of the opportunities and opportunities for young people who, in a peaceful co-operation and co-existence, can probably most easily meet the major challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7146	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7165	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The historical significance of today has been rightly underlined several times, because it is today through this decision and effective on 1st November. May next year not, as was said today at the beginning of the debate, to reunite Europe, but for the first time in history to reach an agreement on a democratic basis. And that's a very important difference for me. What we are now doing has never been in the history of this continent before! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I attach importance to the difference that the new Europe is a democratic union, not the combination of territories, where individual sections of the population must feel oppressed and also oppressed, where most of the citizens of the old European were subjects and had no democratic rights. Even though it may have looked very nice on the map, life in earlier European divisions was not life for the people who lived there and did not offer in Weitem the opportunities that people can see today in a free, democratic and, as I hope, social Europe. This is the great historical progress to be made, which is the great step forward, which is to be made on the 1st. May next year will be done with our full approval, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Heinz Fischer has today shaped a beautiful word. He said that the enlargement of the European Union is going a way from the philosophy of war to the architecture of peace. It has rightly underlined that this will be the essential reason for this agreement in Europe. Many of the following speakers have also meant that with this union of Europe we will finally create peaceful and secure conditions. I do not think we can assume any finality in history in all the stratifications of the historical character. Even if in the future the borders of the common Europe will be safer, life will still become more uncertain for some people. The history of recent years has shown us that countries, even though we have thought them to be peaceful, have fallen back inside again by turbulence in ancient times. We have also experienced in recent years that there are ideologies that we have thought have been overcome for a long time, which have repeatedly appeared, when people have been disappointed by the social, economic development or have been completely thrown out of the way. Therefore, there is probably no such thing as the finality of history for Europe either, but it must be our goal to understand this essential step, which we are now taking to peace and security in Europe, as far as possible through our work, so that it can no longer come back to the philosophy of the war of the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If we are talking about this dimension and some of the speakers today have rightly referred to what their personal experience is, as they have felt, when Klubobmann Molterer mentioned the year 1968 – I can well remember – the year 1975 and Heinz Fischer mentioned some other data in this context, I think, as representatives of the Austrian population, of course, we also have to ask the question: What do people in our country think of today when they think of enlargement? There are certainly many who share our personal experiences and associations. But there are also many who, when they think of enlargement, remember that in the future they will live on roads where there will be even more truck traffic. There are also many people who think that their jobs may become more uncertain, because competition will become stronger and the entire labour market performance will be stronger. And there are also many people who ask themselves: Will we be able to cope with all of this as we have done? I believe it is important that we raise these concerns by many parts of the Austrian population, because only when we address these uncertainties do we have a chance to gain democratic approval. And you should not do so because I remember the discussion we had about Austria's accession to the European Union. [[Abg. Neudeck: “1 000 S” by Ederer!]] Especially the farmers were extremely skeptical – extremely skeptical! The Austrian policy's response to the fears of the farmers was to make a Europe treaty in order to signal security to the farmers that they will not come under the wheels even when Austria joins. I believe, of course, that we also have the same commitment for those people in our country who today fear that in future they may have a weaker basis of existence, because only when politics is able to link opportunities with security for individuals will there be a chance that such a great political work will also be borne by the population as a whole. In this context, we must be clear that many of the homeworks, which were also set out in the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the FPÖ resolution for enlargement, have not yet been completed. If we want the EU enlargement and therefore the union of Europe to be a success for all and people do not feel divided into winners and losers of this process, then we must address these homeworks with even greater efforts in the coming months, because a free, democratic and, as I hope, social Europe can not only be the work of politically responsible people, but must deserve the approval of the people. Jacques Delors said correctly in this context: Nothing goes against people and nothing remains without the institutions! – He has, as always, kept right.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7228	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. Same time of speech: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7247	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Austrian National Council today, with the ratification of the accession treaties, undoubtedly takes a century-long step that our Republic can take. It is a one-time step, a step that does not find any historical precedent; Mr Gusenbauer presented this correctly. Ladies and gentlemen! This century step should indicate that the century of the World Wars is over, and perhaps we – and we all hope it – enter into a century of peace, and this should also serve the consent of our liberals here. We must also be aware, however, that the basis of peace is justice and that justice is indivisible and that historical justice is also indivisible. Klubobmann Herbert Scheibnerist, I believe, has taken an impressive view and has clearly stressed that we must also assume responsibility for this terrible century of World Wars, which is to come to an end. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We Austrians, or just this much-troubled black and blue government, have not only recognised this responsibility, it has also lived and implemented it. I remind you of the many laws on compensation and restitution, and that is exactly what we expect from others: that they deal honestly with their past and that justice should be the same for all! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you, Mr Van der Bellen, compare the time of expulsion and the crimes committed with today's immigration and refugee policy, then, I believe, you are a little confused in your green garden. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Mandak: He didn't do that!]] He did it, I listened to him very carefully, and he pointed it back. I find that inappropriate! [[Abg. Mandak: Watch out!]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, we should not let euphoria rise on that day, but rather we should commit this day – and this is very important to me – with sobriety and with a sense of mind. [[Abg. Wattaul: That's it!]] We should be clear that – and there is Mr Molterer's right – the enlargement of the European Union for us and for many others, it is only now that these are just the basic formal steps to let them begin. Now the challenges that this enlargement will bring are, in fact, only facing us in its full dimension, and now policy as a whole will be required. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am also very glad that during the months of the negotiations that lie behind us, we have always played the last card and have always given priority to the interests of Austria and that it has become clear that we really and honestly want to negotiate, so that the candidate countries, but also the other Member States of the Union, will be aware that the Republic of Austria has life interests, that it has interests, that it is expected to be respected by the Union and that it will be addressed. I believe that this has been important, and I can also announce that in the next few months and years when this enlargement will be a reality, these interests will continue to be consistently represented. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In some areas we would have expected that the conditions for accession would be examined more honestly and that it would not be the same as when examining the stability criteria on the occasion of the introduction of the euro, in fact, with small swans, namely: that it is not taken so seriously whether a state has its security policy under control, whether it is fighting corruption in its country, whether the economic conditions are there to become a member of a European Union like ours at all. I hope that you will not be able to make these boozes and these little Drüberspringeries in the future. I hope that you will honestly and openly examine whether criteria are met, and if they are not respected, an open word must be spoken about this. This also applies to the Stability Pact. I am therefore pleased that this government has clearly stated that it will insist on a stability pact in relation to the euro area and that we are not becoming Austrians and will simply see how large Member States of the European Union are In particular, explain important fundamental criteria for withdrawn. I believe that a consistent policy must continue to be in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! We have, I believe, also negotiated and received transitional arrangements of importance in difficult areas, particularly for the border regions in the eastern part of our country. These are transitional arrangements with regard to the labour market and with regard to the services, reliefs we want for the border regions. However, we have also seen in recent weeks that there are already major problems in the current European Union, difficulties in which a medium-sized country like our Republic must consistently represent its interests. This concerns the topic of transit. Mr Vice-Kanzler explained his way on this issue and also made it clear how consistently this Federal Government and, in particular, it will continue to pursue this issue so that transit within the framework of the new European Union can also be regulated for Austria. Human rights must also be included in this area. Human rights must be indivisible within the European Union, and it is therefore right that a Member State joining the European Union should be required to have human rights-compliant constitutional arrangements in its constitution, and that is also the case with the Czech Republic. This issue has already been discussed. The same is to be said in the matter of nuclear policy. It is also here that Austria, ladies and gentlemen, with a small number of allies within the European Union, has a clear anti-atomic policy, an anti-atomic policy which, for example, the red-green government in Germany is not capable of. Little Austria does it with a consistent attitude, and that is, I think, right, and we will do so in the future. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: You know who always voted to keep EURATOM!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In essence, I believe that this enlargement step is correct, but we must take the time to live this enlargement in Europe too, that this deepening also takes time to become reality in the policies of the Member States of the European Union. I therefore believe that, after this enlargement, we must consider how the borders of the European Union can be formulated at all, and I think that many candidate countries, which are still on the list of candidate countries, will be able to draw the borders of the future European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it will be necessary for the European Union to live its political credibility over the next few years, so that credibility can also hold back among the people of the Member States. I also believe that if the European Union recognises its borders and if the rights of states and peoples are respected, we can go into a good future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7377	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7396	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen at the Ministerial Bank! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery, the ambassadors and the representation of the embassies of the new Member States, I am delighted that you are here and welcome you. It is true – and with this I agree with most of my previous speakers –: This is a historic day for Europe! This is also a historic day in that we in Parliament now actually recognize and confirm the post-war order with this decision today as a past. I too am pleased about it. But unfortunately, this joy is not unmistakable, can not be unmistakable. I have hoped in the last half of the year that the nationalist misunderstandings, especially those against the Czech Republic, which have repeatedly come from the liberals, are definitely of the past. Unfortunately, they are still there and have become loud again today. [[Abg. Scheibner: All of this is not your concern: human rights! For you, injustice is not the same as injustice!]] There will be two votes against in this decision. That means: You agree, but you say: Actually, we don't want it, actually we don't want Czech Republic there! – This is a slinging course that this federal government is driving here. [[Abg. Scheibner: We didn't say that! Listen well before you make allegations!]] This is a slinging course in terms of EU enlargement that you have presented in recent years, and you have done so again today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where is your line in anti-atomic politics?]] The ÖVP says: That's a heartpiece, and you're saying, Veto against Czech EU accession! You then reworded it and said: because of Temelín!, but Veto remains Veto. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where is your line against nuclear energy?]] The ÖVP says: That is a central European task, and you say: Veto for the Beneš decree! Now you don't say veto anymore, but a few of you vote against it and say: That's gone! [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't care: You don't care about nuclear energy, and you don't care about human rights too!]] This disintegrated picture, which Austria has sent to Europe, to these candidate countries or to new member countries in recent years, has not provided any other European government. No other government of the 15 EU countries has provided such a torn picture, with which one has also acted to the detriment of Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where are unanimous decisions? You need to get in touch!]] This has also led to the disadvantage of Austria, which is the outcome of the negotiations in Austria. That's clear! For example, as far as EURATOM is concerned, where we have just managed not to include EURATOM in the Constitutional Treaty. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Why did Voggenhuber abstain from the voice?]] Now, for example, Temelin. That's what you're saying again: The Czech Republic has done too little! I ask you: What did you do? They have been unfairly negotiated, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! [[Abg. Scheibner: What did you do?]] I repeat it: You've been misnegotiating! They didn't really do that. The leading role in the anti-atomic struggle, which Austria could have continued to play in Europe, has been played. [[Abg. Wattaul: The fisherman too!]] Yesterday was another incident in Temelín. Of course, we want this power plant locked up, but with a non-accession, it would not be possible to solve it at all. [[Abg. Wattaul: Is Mr Fischer a greener?]] If you are going to vote against it, Mr Wittauer, as announced, I ask you: Do you know what that means? – In the future, Austria’s potential for negotiation will deteriorate in the fight for an exit. [[Abg. Bullshit!]] That means! Would this Austrian Parliament say unanimously today: Yes, Czech Republic, welcome, we will negotiate together for an exit from nuclear power in Temelín!, then that would be a signal. But now you are doing exactly the opposite again and thus worsening our possibilities. That's your policy! That is the policy of this federal government! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Talk about the matter!]] Unfortunately, Austria – not only now, but since its accession to the EU – has played out the opportunity to be a bridge between East and West. [[Abg. Wattaul: Be as honest as in Germany! These are the greens in the government, and what are they doing?]] Not only do I say that, not only the Greens say, but that also says Professor Lendvai. The well-known journalist Professor Lendvai, to whom there is certainly no special proximity to the Greens, said this summer in an interview with the “Small Newspaper” – I quote: “Austria had an incredible reputation in these countries. But perhaps no other country, when the change came, has so bitterly disappointed the expectations that its neighbors had placed in it. The rhetoric – and I support Lendvai in it – “was much stronger than the actions. Instead of intensifying contacts, Eastern and Central Europe has been greatly neglected in the euphoria about its own accession to the EU.” – citations. That's our criticism! This is not, as Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer says, melancholy, as you blame my colleague Van der Bellen, but it is simply the criticism of what Austria has failed to do and how Austria should no longer act in the future. I am thinking, for example, of the forthcoming and further enlargements towards South-East Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There needs a closed, strong Austria, a leadership role of Austria! But you haven't taken them in recent years. This can only be observed: Austria has not had a leading role in enlargement! I regret that, and that is why this EU enlargement is linked to a drops of advertising, and unfortunately I had to make these failures public again, so to speak. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Wattaul.]] Of course, this is also, and above all, a European peace project, which is being decided here today, and I am glad that we are finally doing so. I would have preferred it if we had been the first. We're not, unfortunately, but that's the way it is. This peace project is one that also results in that at last – on 1st. May 2004 – the borders will continue to rise – on the March, north of the forest and mill district, but also on the Neusiedlersee, on the Mur, on the Karawanken. The people in the border regions have already understood and have noticed that the opening of these borders brings them something that is good for them, that they do not have to stare at fear and hope that no one will come, but that this will revive the economy, that they can use their language skills – especially in South Carinthia, it is now so common for one to speak Slovenian again, and that this helps in exchange. [[Abg. Wattaul: How will the economy be transported?]] All these are reasons why it is sensible and necessary and good that this peace project is finally taking place. Now on the Beneš decrees, Mr Scheibner and also Mr Bösch: Of course, we also say that these felony decrees are wrong. [[Abg. Scheibner: But the laws are still in force!]] This is also said by the Czech Prime Minister Spidla. He said that in Gottweig, in the presence of Federal Chancellor Schüssel. [[Abg. Scheibner: But the laws are still in force!]] Do you actually know what has happened in the Czech Republic over the last ten, twelve years, what they have done to change the opinion in society and to make awareness work to work out what happened then? [[Abg. Scheibner: But the laws are still in force!]] We needed forty years until we finally started. [[Abg. Scheibner: But the laws have not remained in force for 40 years!]] They have had ten years now and are doing some things about it now. There are initiatives by civil society in Brno, and there are initiatives by young people who work out the “death march” and say what happened to atrocities. The Austrian-Czech Dialogue Forum is doing a lot about this. Havel and Spidla have also made a clear statement about this, saying: That's wrong! What would be necessary from the Austrian side – and that is exactly what German Chancellor Schüssel has said – is common gestures. One of these joint gestures would be to set up a future fund between Austria and the Czech Republic, as it has been between Germany and the Czech Republic since 1997. [[Abg. Scheibner: You measure with two measures!]] I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In cooperation lies the future and not the no-sagen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to quote Mr Lendvai again. He said – and this also applies to the future enlargements – that Austria should not be a sturgeon, but a stepmaker for enlargements. Take this to heart for the future, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7755	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lunacek is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. It will be agreed at the end of the discussions. Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has now come to speak. The speaking time is agreed with 8 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7777	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear colleague Morak! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to tell you that I am happy today because it is the birth of a new, enlarged, democratic and solidarity Europe. [[Lively condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I am pleased that young people are watching that they are with us, because it is the future that we are shaping. Allow me to say something in person: I was a diplomat in Paris at the time we had prepared our own EU accession, and it was not always easy! Of course, when you are addressed, you become very sensitive because there are problems. I knew exactly this sensitivity of enlargement candidates, but I also knew the nature of the Austrians, and it was necessary to find a balance in the negotiations, a fair balance between one and the other. There must be a balance of interests in the final effect, which brings us a good and fair solution, but which is also an acceptable solution for the others, and that is what we have succeeded. So let me say: I am very grateful for this today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] About three years ago, I took an initiative to get closer to these candidate countries. That is why I have stamped out the “Regional Partnership” from the ground. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's grotesk!]] The idea has been as follows: We have to deal with each other both in the cultural area, where we have enormously many common values, if we look at the music, literature, dance – it's easy there – but we also have to deal with each other on all the other more difficult issues. For example, we have to deal with each other in the matter of internal security. This is where Mr Strasser has created the very good and important security partnership. There are, of course, still open questions, but one will certainly be able to solve them together. Other colleagues, too, have started working across countries on infrastructure, on the economy, on agriculture, and indeed on all the issues that concern us together. I am pleased that this regional partnership has already brought us a lot in the purely political field, because together we represent the thoughts which the Federal Chancellor has expressed here today: We all want a Commissioner per country with voting rights, because we want to bring our thoughts into the Commission – and then the EU Commissions see this as a European thought. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As I have already said, we have to and must, of course, be aware of the interests of our own people, something that, as I mean, is absolutely right, because precisely when you want to have a good result in the end, you also have to satisfy the interests of your own people. There were difficult problems, some of which have already been mentioned today. For example, there is still the difficult problem about transit; of course, I am perfectly aware of this. On the question of nuclear policy too: Of course we would wish there was a zero option, but everyone knows that it is the sovereign right of every state to determine the individual forms of energy of its own country. We in Austria have opted for a non-atomic policy, but others have not, but this cannot be denied to these countries. But what we have been able and able to do is to negotiate the best possible security. We succeeded, and that must be implemented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The same applies to workers: Of course, Austrian workers have a certain concern that many workers from neighbouring countries could come to us and offer their activities at a slightly cheaper price – a concern that must, of course, be taken seriously. I remember very well, ladies and gentlemen, how we fought for our country in the free movement of workers or in the free movement of services. It wasn't easy at all, but it was successful. Today, I am pleased to see that even EU Member States that criticised us at the time, such as France or Spain, have now seen these issues as we do, because their own people have shown a certain scepticism in this regard. Again: Reason and attention have led our negotiation. On the question of border regions. To this end, in general: Man, ladies and gentlemen, is for me the measure of all things; an old but important principle. That's why we have to see: Finally, former border regions are open regions. These regions have long been dead regions or Sackgassen regions. In order to bring these slowly back to bloom, it is necessary to have additional advantages. We have negotiated such promotions – and we must try to preserve them for the future. All this, ladies and gentlemen, has been made with reason and hearts, so that we can also win the hearts of our people. Final sentence: I have a great desire – this is also a wish for the Christian child if you want to – that one day people will not see this on and beyond the borders at all: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Here we are – and you are there!, but that we are all European citizens, that we are all European people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7881	Mr Grillitsch has come to speak. 5 minutes, as exact as possible. [[It follows a brief technical communication by President Dr. Fischer.]] Please, Mr Grillitsch.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7908	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Austria is now finally taking its place in the middle of Europe by means of enlargement, a fact that we are, of course, pleased with. We are pleased that ten new Member States are coming to us in the EU: with around 80 million citizens, who will now join the Community of the European Union. It is the largest and most ambitious project since the founding of the European Community in 1957. In this context, allow me to compare, so to speak, a comparison in the second generation, in which, for example, there is no lack of food – and where, often, the understanding that everything has is not always the greatest. This enlargement project, which naturally also mentions peace in Europe, must be noted: This too must not be taken for granted – and that is why it is a command of the hour to put the common one before the parting one! I am also very happy about this discussion now here in the High House, as we are experiencing it, as the whole is being put behind the interests of the parties. Stability, predictability and commonness guarantee us peace. That is why we need to deal with Beneš decrees, both at national and European level, at the moment, ladies and gentlemen – I am already saying this very critically. We must deal with the injustice of the past in order to quickly come to human rights-compliant solutions for the individual groups in the former Czechoslovakia. We owe this to these people – and there we are required! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need cross-border programmes to ensure our livelihoods, for example in environmental policy. We need these uniform standards in order to be able to increase the quality of life as well. In this respect, Austria can and should also be a model country in the European Union, in many areas: environmental policy in terms of securing our resources, water, air and cetera. We can help with our know-how to improve these enlargement countries, for example in administration, in databases, in reporting and so on. Austria, for example, can be seen as a model country in the energy sector in terms of the use of renewable energy sources. As far as this is concerned, we should also offer enlargement countries our assistance, for example as regards biomass, solar energy and wind energy, so that these new technologies can use the potential on-the-spot and not only create additional jobs in these countries, but also protect the environment at the same time. We should also transport our living sustainability strategy to these countries, so to speak. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: We should talk about animal welfare!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Jarolim, listen carefully! – and then you'll know what I'm talking about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: I don’t believe that in Jarolim!]] – At least I hope you know that then, Mr Jarolim! We took the concerns and concerns of our rural families very seriously even in 1995 with the accession of the EU. We have not so to speak flown into the EU, nor have we so to speak, but we have said: Yes, under certain conditions we are ready to do so, and today our rural family programs with a validity of more than five or six years are available. This is stability and predictability for the people of Austria, for the people of the country – and we want to do so with this enlargement: Stability and security in the programmes so that there is a corresponding economic development in these countries as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Animal protection!]] This, of course, is also about competitiveness – even in matters of animal welfare. We can ban everything in Austria, but we must also be aware that we do not guarantee productivity and competitiveness for our farms, but actually only export animal suffering and import it again by buying what is offered on the shelf: Products from completely different forms of attitude than is the case in Austria. We must keep this discussion consistently, from producers to consumers. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] – I am coming to the end, Mr President. I believe that it is about having courage – and having courage, that begins with the will. Therefore: We from agriculture have this will, but we need the support of the Federal Government, and we have it. But we also need your support so that we can work together, because that is not only a huge challenge, but also such an opportunity for all of us. [[towards SPÖ and Greens]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8013	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8042	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are aware that today in the National Council we will have to make one of the most important and important decisions that have probably been made here in the National Council over the last few decades. Since this is the case and it is for us not only to create a majority as large as possible here – I would like to have a unanimous decision – because we are not only concerned with it, but also because we want the population in Austria to be able to take this decision positively, we have been trying for more than two and a half years and have made offers to the Federal Government to prepare this decision together. As opposition party, we said: We are not primarily opposed to government policy, but we are offering the government our hand because we believe that this is an essential decision in which we are concerned with bringing the people into the boat, so to speak. [[Abg. Wattaul: The sanctions, for example!]] Because we want to, we have also identified specific problem areas that can be linked to this enlargement, and have proposed that there should be jointly developed measures there that will help those in our country who are not among the winners of enlargement to be frightened by very concrete measures. Ladies and gentlemen! This was the background to the fact that two and a half years ago we offered the “Pact for Work and Europe”. – However, the government has not accepted it. We then tried very hard to get the government parties to adopt, together with us, a resolution that contained the most important demands in this context, and that was successful. This three-party resolution request was adopted two years ago. The problem is only, ladies and gentlemen, that the Federal Government has really remained guilty in this respect. This would also have to be written to the German Chancellor, who once again conjured the common ground, in the main book: If the Chancellor of the Federal Republic wants to have the common ground, he must take it seriously. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Very right!]] Since, for example, the Federal Chancellor today also meant that the difference in security policy between us was not so great, but then read a text presented by the Italian Presidency in Naples, and then read as a counterpart a text of which he claims to be of me, supposedly from yesterday, but in doing so, I have to say that I have just left out the crucial words that show a difference: That is exactly what Joseph Cap accused of this government: devastation and enslavement! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is important is to ensure that the particular security policy approach of the EU Member States is taken into account and that our constitutional specificity, which lies in neutrality, is therefore also taken into account in the concept of the assistance obligation. [[Abg. Scheibner: (keeping an issue of the B-VG in height) Read the Constitution! Then you won’t talk about the “slaves ” anymore!]] It is not a sincere policy, Mr Bundeskanzler! This is not how partnership is possible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Read the Constitution, my colleague.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As the situation is just as I have just described it, today I am putting forward a motion for a resolution on behalf of my group, because we are convinced that measures are still necessary and possible to ensure that the Austrian people can also say yes to this enlargement. We wish for as broad a yes as possible in the population. What is the subject of this resolution, which, as I hope, has been distributed or is still being distributed? First of all, we want the Federal Government to benefit from all national areas of economic policy in order to contribute to more economic growth and thus to employment. We want a qualification offensive to be launched for those – and we want to do so for two and a half years, but you have remained inactive by ÖVP and FPÖ! – which are under pressure by the enlargement process in their work opportunities. We want work foundations to be reintroduced for the relevant industries, as planned at the time of Austria's accession to the EU. We want to ensure that the provisions applicable to the labour market in Austria are also monitored: also in the transition phase. We also want to ensure that the seven-year transitional period is not exhausted there and in those sectors and regions where this is possible. However, we want this protection to be ensured where it is necessary to protect the Austrian labour market. That is why we ask you to submit a proposal for the revision of the Foreign Employment Act, because nothing else can be done without such an amendment during this seven-year transitional period, because EEA citizens are excluded from the Foreign Employment Act, ladies and gentlemen. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We ask you, Mrs Federal Minister – if you have not done so with the same commitment as you have done to the question of ‘one Commissioner per country’, to the transit problem – that you at least now use all the power to implement a sustainable transport policy within the framework of a new road cost directive and ask you to ensure that we finally get to know the position of this federal government next week in the main committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8177	The motion for a resolution on intra-Austrian accompanying measures for EU enlargement is properly supported. ==References====External links== 4 GO has been explained in its basics, will be duplicated and will participate in the negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8263	Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8281	Mr President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! “Justitia regnorum fundamentalum”, we find it written at the Heldentor: a legacy of best Austrian political traditions, that is good to see, from the honorable rooms of the National Library to Ballhausplatz. The right is the basis of every government. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Justice – Not “the right”!]] That is what we also need to call into question in Brussels. We are, as it were, Brussels. Brussels is not a foreign power, but rather the common political will of all the candidate countries, and the EU, according to its definition, is also a community of rights and values; it did so in 1993 in the Copenhagen criteria. It was about the basis for membership of the European Community being a stable democracy, respect for human rights and protection for minorities. This was also the basis for the reform process, which has since taken place in the candidate countries. Today, on the day of the ratification of the accession treaties in the Austrian Parliament, a country of accession does not meet these Copenhagen criteria in all respects, especially on a very crucial point: on the issue of respect for human rights. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! I do not understand that you criticize us for criticizing the Beneš decrees as illegal to human rights, and not, instead, because you always make yourself the defenders of human rights, even criticised the Beneš decrees as illegal to human rights. The Beneš decrees are and were also illegal, illegal and therefore contrary to the Copenhagen criteria at the time of their adoption. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You're in power! There can be no doubt about that at all. “They are valid and they will be valid,” said Prime Minister Spidla on 7. In May, he told the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” on request of a lecture he had given in Frankfurt the day before. You're in power! They are not dead, they are evil living! They are the legislative basis for the expulsion of 3 million people. At that time, 242,000 had reached the saving Austria, the saving Bavaria, and these were women, old people and children in particular. It is a cynicism that compares this to the Austrian refugee policy of the year 2003 – an ethnic cleansing of enormous proportions with cruelty of incalculable quality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: That's it!]] If the Beneš decrees remain part of the national legislation of an EU country, the EU will put its own rules of play out of force. This is a development which we see in approaches also in other areas, and it is very corrupting. Same right for all – only in this way justice can be created! In the meantime, it has looked very good in this process. Of course, there have been a number of people in Europe and certainly also in the Czech Republic – and there are also today – who know that a solution has to be found here. I refer to a resolution adopted by the European Parliament in 1999, which clearly states that the Beneš decrees cannot be maintained. The mood was favourable at the time, you too from the SPÖ have joined this mood and are lying to it. At the time, there was a motion for a resolution in this House; the first applicant was the then Klubobmann Kostelka, who called on the Federal Government to continue to work in conjunction with the other Member States and the institutions of the European Union on the repeal of existing laws and decrees from 1945 to 1946 relating to the expulsion of individual groups in the former Czechoslovakia. We, ladies and gentlemen, keep this line. It is very important that the decision is not unanimous in this Parliament. It must be clarified that this question is open so that this consent cannot be misused as a dispute resolution. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The right is the foundation of every government! [[Abg. Arbitrator: Justice!]] As a representative of the liberal club, I will fail to give my approval to this great proverb for all the liberal Members of the ratification.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8402	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz is sufficiently supported and stands for negotiation and for the vote. Mrs Lichtenberger spoke. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8436	Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into the real, important and central issue of today, allow me to say a word to Mrs Rosenkranz. The assumption that, because an incorrect comparison of Mr. Klubobmann Van der Bellen was criticised that the Greens were a candidate for the expulsion, I think it is unreasonable! [[Abg. Neudeck: He led him!]] I'm telling you quite frankly. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: So the comparison was inadmissible!]] [[Abg. Wittauer: The comparison is not allowed! That's it!]] But let us look at the crucial debate that is taking place in this House today. [[Abg. Scheibner:... Criticism at Klubobmann Van der Bellen!]] Even if you would like to talk about interlocutory calls now, I would like to expressly say: The Greens, when Austria joined the European Union, have always criticised, among many other issues, that Europe cannot continue to stop on the Iron Curtain and that the integration of the countries that were then behind the Iron Curtain would have to be one of the central challenges and objectives of the European Union. This, ladies and gentlemen, was successful now, and I say it quite openly and with joy, earlier than I could imagine at the time! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The accessions that we welcome with a vote today confirm that one can make a peace project from Europe that does not end up on a wall that runs through Europe in the middle of Europe, but that means the challenge of doing so in concrete terms. To conjure up Europe's peace project alone, and at the same time to carry out a full upgrade, cannot be a political way that Europe can go if it does not want to lose its credibility even in the new accession countries! That's what I'm putting on: There must be a new policy here, a genuine foreign policy subordinated to military policy. I would like to stress once again: That's what I'm putting on. If today, in a comparison of his own ideas or those of Minister Frattini, the Federal Chancellor wanted to create a mixture with proposals from the Convention area, by saying that, anyway, everyone is already in favour of disposing of neutrality in a way that means that one no longer has to vote on it, then I can only strongly reject it, because this contradicts all the speeches that you, Mr Bundeskanzler and Mrs Minister, hold in which you conjure up the peace project in Europe. That's not how it's done! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Worm.]] This inconsistency has, of course, also created a problem in recent years with which we now have to fight. Some speakers have found that the population has only a limited enthusiasm for this enlargement. I'll tell you one thing: When reports are launched by political mandaters who speak of a flood of East workers, of an avalanche of people on the labour market, it is not surprising that people's distrust has been strengthened and increased here and nothing has been contributed to a conciliatory attitude in Europe. You, ladies and gentlemen, are partly guilty of this displeasure in the population, and you are now invited to clear it as soon as possible, because we need – and I am finally going to come to the last point – our new European partners also as partners for a new policy, for example in the field of transport. We must now use all the strength to ensure that they do not believe that we are now trying to create a new economic wall against it, but that they see that it is a common protection of a common environment and common health of the population along the transit routes, and that in the old EU countries and in the EU accession countries! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For this we have to promote understanding, and every propaganda – I conclude – which in turn refers to the need to block out the others for the benefit of their own is counterproductive. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign the other day]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is unfair to the other speakers!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8571	I call Mr Regler. The speaking time is exactly 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8590	High house! It fills me with great joy and honour that I am today allowed to participate in this truly historic decision, which on the one hand overcomes the separation of Europe as a result of the decisions taken by Jalta, which has delivered States to Communism, whose representatives at the time had already been sitting here in this House, in the then Reichsrat: Poland, Bohemia, Slovenians. In the same way, I am delighted and warmly welcome the Baltic states, which were handed over by Hitler to Stalin and have suffered a great deal of suffering. All, all welcome! Today, we are definitely overcoming the Iron Curtain, which we have not been able to imagine for a long time, that it is overcomeable. We took out the Nordautobahn from the Bundesstraßengesetz, we took the Pressburger Bahn east of Wolfsthal, we took off the second track of the railway between Graz and Spielfeld because we said: Never again will a stronger traffic take place there, so fix is the Iron Curtain. We welcome the tourists from these new accession countries, the buyers who shop with us and help our economy and thus all of us. We strive to improve transport infrastructure optimally and environmentally. Over € 2 billion, over 28 billion Schilling, we invest every year in the development and maintenance of the railway infrastructure. So there's really a lot going on. Our admirable Minister for Foreign Affairs Benita Ferrero-Waldner, in support of the Minister responsible for Transport, is trying to achieve a new road cost directive, including Caspar, in order to ensure that traffic on the road is managed as environmentally as possible. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Eder: He hasn't got her yet...!]] I didn't realize it. I have to say that clearly here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Even if it is still so often claimed by the opposition, it does not become more true: Mrs Foreign Minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner has never agreed to the 108% limit. [[Abg. May. Worm: Wine arter!]] I have to put that right here, because you always claim it again and again, even if it's not true. [[Further "Weingartner"-Rufe at SPÖ.]] In this sense, I am pleased today with this decision that we can take, and I would like to say once again to all the States: Welcome to Europe, because we are Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8673	Next speaker: Member of Parliament. Speech time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8691	Ladies and gentlemen! In historical moments one should look back not only, but also see what the next steps are. The most important thing is certainly – that has already been said today – to use the opportunities for our country and for our people, our situation, our experience, but it must be, as Dr. Gusenbauer correctly said, chances with certainty. It would therefore also be an opportunity for the government to do all that was not done or could not be done in the preparation, to do now and to finalize the homework in order to ensure this opportunity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: The SPÖ wants the pragmatized chance!]] We should also use the languages, and there is a negative example of how it should not be: In the moment when the Austrian minority languages simultaneously speak the languages of the new Neighboring countries in the EU are so that they can use this to promote our attitude to our country and to present our products, they delete the shipments for minorities in their language, and there is a small round between Director-General Lindner and State Secretary Morak. [[Abg. Lentsch: Where?]] It shouldn't be like that! We should take advantage of the chance and not destroy it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not at all!]] Secondly, I believe that the next task is to adapt to the changed situation in the EU and to recognise that this will become more and more a separate level with its own laws. Those who are the first to be strategic about it will also be able to stand at this level. Thirdly, We must see that the EU is going to be very large at the age of 25, but not all of Europe yet, and that there are many European countries that will not come to the EU as quickly as – or perhaps perhaps not at all. There must be a chance for them too! The chance is that cooperation will also be forced with them. The institution in which this can happen is the Council of Europe. We should use him for this; There are proposals. This would also be the chance that the EU's enlargement will not lead to less European standards, because the rights of the human rights convention, the human rights court, the social charter and others may be weakened. We must also see the whole of Europe and give it a chance. Let us take advantage of the opportunities for our country, for the EU and for this continent!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8766	Next speaker: Mr Scheuch. Same time of speech: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8784	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm standing out here today with a crying and smiling eye. There are two souls in my chest: On the one hand, a unique, visionary project is certainly being implemented today, something that has meaning – of which we liberals are also aware – on the other hand, there is also a risk associated with it; there are fears, there are concerns, and there are legitimate concerns within the population. There are concerns in agriculture, there are concerns about the workers in the farms who are concerned about their jobs, and there are concerns about the environment – I only call Temelín and transit traffic – but the vision is alive, and we will stop at the vision. There should be a future without images of enemies, there should be a future with fewer prejudices, but there should also be – and I believe this is very important – a Europe that will not be united, but rather a Europe with diversity and with regions. At this point I would like to catch up, because I think it is just Carinthia that shows that this is possible. Carinthia has already made this shoulder closure. We have managed to achieve a great deal with Slovenia and thus be a model for these enlargements. [[Abg. May. Trunk:... no trial!]] Countless, ladies and gentlemen, those who shout are not right! That's what I said more often at this point. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Innumerable joint projects with Slovenia and with Italy show that one can live this community, with activities of an economic, cultural and political nature. We live “Senza confini”, we live this thought in Carinthia in exchange with Italy and Slovenia, and we will continue to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely this attitude that FPÖ will continue to take in the future. We will support visions, but not blind ones, but with a watchful eye. We will remain critical, we will remain vigilant, because this is the Austrian Parliament! We primarily represent Austria, we represent the concerns and concerns of the Austrians, and in the second place we represent Europe. Only those who critically change, ladies and gentlemen, change for the better!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8843	Next speaker: Mrs Sburny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8862	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rosenkranz von der Liberties has said, as a last sentence, that: ‘Deputy for all Members of the Liberal Party’ I am voting against this decision, and I am voting against it. [[Abg. Rosary: In the matter of human rights!]] [[Abg. Dr. Bleckmann: On this question!]] There is no more precise, precise description of your attitude, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, as you deal with the issue of EU enlargement. This concerns the issue of EU enlargement and not the issue of criticism of the EU. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, but also about human rights and the environment!]] If Mrs Rosenkranz says that she is voting in favour of all Members of the Liberals on this issue, I ask myself: Why aren't you all so honest and voting against it instead of still hanging a coat? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Don't tell us that this is a signal against the EU's policy! This is a signal against the enlargement of the EU, and you will not do a good job with this in your attitude of cooperation with the new Member States. It is clear to all of us that the EU still has a long way to go when it comes to economic, but above all to social and environmental integration. You, however, as a government party, would have had a lot of possibilities that you could have realized. I would just like to say it on the example of the railway, because this is also an up-to-date example and Minister Gorbach mentioned it: There is a much better modal split in the applicant countries than in Austria, the ratio of rail freight transport to that on the road is much better in the applicant countries. If you would have wanted to, you could have taken the opportunity to create cooperation to adopt something here from the new candidate countries, which we have long been in the back, because, in the context of the borderless liberalisation euphoria at EU level, we are destroying rail at EU level. On this point, we could learn a lot from the candidate countries, the new members, and there would have been opportunities for you, as government representatives, to do something. They set a sign here against enlargement – and not a sign of a more positive EU policy! [[Abg. Scheibner: You must know that!]] Yes, this is very clear from your remarks. [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't worry about the environment at all?]] If you only agree to this enlargement, you will have a bad basis for negotiations with the cooperation partners with whom you will work in a common EU in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8972	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. From now on, the limit on speaking time is voluntary; it is proposed at 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8990	High house! President-in-Office of the Council. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said several times today that we are experiencing a very special day, a historic day, a day where we contribute and contribute to enlargement. And on that day it is important that we do not highlight the contradictions, Mrs Colleague, but that we seek the joint. I can express this invitation to you, and I think that is the culture that we need from now on. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have prepared this process, we have carried it along, and we have brought in our experience as a mediator, as a designer. Thank you, Mrs Bundesminister, for having, in the exercise of your office and function at European level, contributed a great deal to the fact that common thinking and striving to create this larger Europe has also become a reality. As one who could or had to experience this time – I was allowed to say – I remember at this hour something that has already been addressed today. We may have succeeded in this process because we ourselves think of the year 1955, in which we have become free and in which a different life has also begun with us. Today and here, at this hour, we are thinking of the year 1956, the Hungarian Revolution, when thousands of Hungary came to us. Mr Van der Bellen! This has always been the culture of our country. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Yes!]] We've taken up the people, they've been integrated, they're valuable members of our society today. We can show that! [[Abg. Mandak: Are you saying that this is still the case today?]] We can also remember the year 1968 when we succeeded the same after the precipitation of Prague spring. And if you want to hear that, too: Who did as much as Austria in 1981 when there was the crisis in Poland and hundreds of thousands of Poles sought a different home and found it in Austria. [[Abg. Mandak: It would be nice if that were the same today!]] We were the intermediaries, we were great, we are great, and we will also be exemplary in this role in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mandak: Unfortunately these times are over!]] At that time, it would have been an illusion to believe in this new Europe to be designed today. The separation that has taken place can only understand these thoughts of the need to separate life from one another who lived on the dead border, who also had to experience the incomprehensibly embarrassing border controls and much more. I also think that today we can say that the year 1989 with the fall of the Berlin Wall was in fact the determining year. And here the idea of my party has become reality, because the EIA has been the European Party until then and to this day. We have always discussed these thoughts and have always put our responsibility to the fore. Today we can go home to the success, and I thank all those who have come in here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, at this hour of joy one can of course also refer to some other questions, such as expectations. What do we expect? – We expect us not only to understand ourselves more mentally in the future, but also to think about the language. We should see to it that we promote language dynamics, the acceptance of other languages in our country, while respecting our own culture. The preservation of one's own culture is a fundamental prerequisite for me. I think that we should also think about some other things, for example, about issues of the economy, agriculture or the labour market, where, Mrs Bundesminister, you have also succeeded in solving the problems in these sensitive areas through truly good, functional and tangible transitional arrangements. These are the things we should articulate here today! This new Europe must allow us to hope that the equality of all states is reality in the European context and that Europe will play a role as a strong economic force in the world, that the states of this Europe cannot be played against each other and that the peace process in Europe will not be properly rewritten until today, so that we and the generations coming after us can maintain the prosperity and social standard, so that all subsequent generations can live in a peaceful and free Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this debate today, I am bringing forward a motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Molterer, Herbert Scheibner, colleagues on the enlargement of the European Union. For the purposes of Section 53, para. 4 and 55, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to explain the main points below and ask the President of the Council for a distribution and then for the vote and the processing of this request. This resolution deals, in particular, with cross-border security cooperation and police cooperation, the development of regional partnerships, infrastructure development, border regions promotion, cultural and educational cooperation. This motion for a resolution is sufficiently signed and passed on to you, Mr President, and I may ask you to continue to deal with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9095	The motion for a resolution by Mr Molterer, Mr Scheibner, Mr Scheibner, Mr President, has been duplicated and distributed in his key points and is therefore under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9266	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9284	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Donabauer, the times have changed as regards the care of refugees and also the reception of refugees, I give you the right. [[Abg. Donabauer: Stop yelling and start thinking!]] Think about how it has been and how it is today. You have referred to this point, and I would just like to answer that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We are facing an important step. This has been stressed very often today, and yet you can't say it often enough: This peaceful and voluntary integration of 25 countries is unique in the history of Europe, and political stability, peace, democracy and human rights in an enlarged Europe will in future be an essential contribution to a peaceful co-existence and enable harmonious co-existence. This enlargement, as already mentioned, offers enormous opportunities, although some questions remain open, such as: Will the new Member States succeed where it is necessary to deal with the process of catching up? What will be the impact of enlargement on the old Member States? Will we make it possible for us to communicate so well with each other that we negotiate so well that old and new states grow together freely into a single, political, economic, social and cultural system of the EU, growing together in all their diversity? EU enlargement will create one of the largest internal markets in the world with nearly 500 million inhabitants. Therefore, the issues of labour market and employment are very important elements of the discussion. Under the common From 2004 onwards, the 25 countries will live and co-operate closely with people from different linguistic and cultural areas and various regional and cultural identities. The tasks of elementary importance will therefore be integration, multicultural cooperation and the defence of cultural diversity against numerous prejudices and fears. Europe is not only a political or economic community, but also a cultural and value-added community, because with enlargement we will also come closer together culturally in parallel with economic and political integration. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] However, it is necessary to create some conditions and to take measures that are supportive. First of all, people of different cultural backgrounds should be able to communicate with each other in language. The language is a very powerful instrument, and therefore multiculturality has something to do with multilingualism. Austria is becoming the same neighbour of four new EU countries. When I look at the development of government policy in recent times, I see that no special initiatives have been launched. The opposite has happened in the education sector: Reduction of teaching hours, reduction of support measures and the removal of additional educational opportunities. Peter Schieder has already mentioned it: People's radios and also multilingual Free Radios fight for survival. This is very unfortunate, and there is a lot to be done, ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, There are funding and cultural promotion programmes that need to be expanded. In the medium term, the EU also needs to increase percentage funding for cultural promotion. However, this does not help us if not also in the national field. I also have a statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which she made during the Cultural Ministerial Conference in Linz: New cultural divisions must be prevented at the future EU external borders. I fully agree. We should not allow new dividing lines. Art and culture are extremely helpful as a means to prevent conflicts or to resolve conflicts. However, we need sufficient resources to really implement an active foreign culture policy. The willingness of culturalists to cooperate in Europe without dividing lines or to work on the dividing lines and the dividing lines is great. However, they lack, as has been said, the resources and support for foreign cultural policy. As you can see, the question is not only whether the future Member States are well prepared for enlargement, but also whether Austria is well prepared. And there has been a lot of failure by the current government, including, as I believe, foreign culture policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9343	The next speaker was Mrs Bleckmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9363	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! It is certainly a great day for many, but we should not do it with a twinkling of eyes, but rather with a reasonable critical attitude. It must be borne in mind that this vote, which will take place today and here, will be a vote in the package, which would certainly look different and more differentiated if there were the possibility of individual voting. That is exactly why our colleague Barbara Rosenkranz has said that she will vote here as a sales spokesman on the question of Beneš decrees for the Liberal Members, as will our environmental spokesman, Mr Klaus Wittauer, on the question of Temelín, for the Liberal Members. This is precisely the point of two areas which have not yet been sufficiently clarified from the point of view of the liberals and that not the same law has been applied to all countries. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I see this as much as a football team. If I have eleven people I want to send into the game, and one of them has not achieved the class goal, then I can't, just because one has not achieved its goal, say all the others are not allowed to play, but I just have to see that I can take one. But I'm telling him: If you don't do your homework in the future, that's a problem. And so the game can then be played, and so the team can also bring a good result. That is why there is a clear line for us here, a single freedom line, which says that we see problems in these two areas and therefore show this voting behaviour. That is why the great euphoria does not arise, because there is – and this is a great challenge – enlargement, and, as has already been said, we are only at the beginning of enlargement, because there are some things that are still to be clarified. And that is exactly the concerns and fears of the Austrian population, with which we are also confronted, which we must take seriously, and which we must also listen carefully. It is up to everyone to deal with it. Of course, it is a question of how these many new countries really need to be integrated into the entire administrative process so that there is a smooth administrative process. Is the preparation really sufficient for the whole enlargement? As we have heard, the formal process is now taking place in the form of the vote, so to speak, and comes to 5. May to its conclusion, but the actual integration and enlargement process only begins. When Mr Van der Bellen says that the Stability Pact is politically dead, I think that is also one of the concerns and fears that there are within the EU which are not complying with the rules of the game. And there is also a need to consider this, so that especially the small countries do not get under the wheels. That is why it will also be important in the future to close alliances with other small countries, which will now also come to the EU as part of the enlargement of the East, in order to take advantage of all opportunities to find partners, who will then also go together with Austria on a path in Europe and within the EU. That is, we liberals do not close our eyes, but we go into enlargement with open eyes. We don't go with scoundrels, but with far-sighted views and especially with far-sighted views for the Austrians, and we don't go with eye twinkling, but with a reasonably critical attitude, That is to say, with a constructive-critical attitude to EU Easter enlargement into this Easter enlargement, because only those who are critically changing will also change for the better.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9427	The next speaker was Mrs Machne. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9445	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to look back at the year 1995, at the moment that remains unforgettable for me: when we removed the border between South Tyrol and East Tyrol with the help of the heads of state. It has brought this act of Tyrol together again and, of course, means a lot to our federal state. I am delighted and very proud that today I will be in the process of ratifying the accession treaty of the new States, that we will then be a Europe with 25 states. I am also a member of the Committee of the Regions in Brussels. It was also nice that since May of this year the 85 new members of the candidate countries were with us as observers, i.e. without voting rights. From May, they will then be able to vote in the Committee of the Regions. They have already had the opportunity to maintain and develop contacts, partnerships in Europe. I believe that the partnerships we will maintain with the candidate countries will be of particular importance to Austria. Osttirol has now tried to form a partnership with Slovenia since the “Year of Mountains”. We have created a great project, the Europe-Drau cycle path. It goes from the origin of the Drau, from Toblach in South Tyrol, to East Tyrol, Carinthia, to Maribor. I had the opportunity to present this project to the municipal council of Maribor. I was quite surprised how much we can learn from the Slovenians. I was surprised, therefore, because I could see to what extent many people can have three languages. In addition to their native language, many Slovenians can also speak foreign languages such as English and German, which is almost a matter of course. I believe that Austria can learn a lot from the applicant countries in this area. Allow me to say a few words on the subject of general care. I believe that just the provision of services is a major concern for many Austrians, but also for all Europeans. At the meeting of the Committee of the Regions in October, a amendment was tabled by Mr Van Staa, Mr Dörler and Mr Klasnic. In doing so, the CoR called for the European Constitutional Treaty to make it clear clearly that the European Union must ensure that the competences of local, regional and national authorities in the field of general protection are maintained. I think that there is really an important reason for action here, and I expressly thank our Federal Chancellor, who has taken part in this matter. I would particularly like to thank our Foreign Minister, who made it clear at the press hour, what great concerns she is about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is precisely the self-determination of the individual states in this area that would make a significant contribution to the European Union's acceptance of people in the European Union. Austria will again be in the middle of Europe, In the middle of Europe, and I believe that we can all rejoice. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9496	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9515	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria will soon move from the edge to the centre of a large European Community and, like no other country, will be affected by the impact of EU enlargement – of the opportunities, but also of the risks. In order to realize the opportunities and not the risks, there is a need for intensive preparatory work that should be more than concerned about whether anyone can crown his career with the title of Commissioner or President of the Union. The danger that the labour market and the service market are increasingly under pressure in various sectors is certainly present. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that the EU and national bodies play an active role and strengthen the border regions on both sides of the borders that no longer exist. The best protection for our markets is a flourishing economy in the candidate countries with a level of pay and price equal, a determined fight against black employment and the best possible qualification of our own workers. Especially here, ladies and gentlemen, Austria is particularly called for to play an active role as before, so that we do not also have economic policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The seven-year transitional period, which is called into question by people such as the Foreign Minister, must not be misunderstandingd as a lazy bed in which the Federal Government is leaning back and waiting for what is to come. They come, though not to the colported extent: the labour force from countries where the wage level is only a fraction of our wage level. There are certainly not only a few unqualified people who may want to stay in the cleaning service, but also many higher educated ones who want to work in Austria and also have the ability to do so. After all, after an OECD study, the enlargement countries already have more young people with Matura or completed teaching than we do. The academic rate, especially in the field of technical and natural science, is also relatively high. So when it comes to education, the candidate countries have done their homework, as my previous speaker has already said. But what does Austria do under a Minister of Education Gehrer? – School hours are shortened, teachers are sent into retirement without replacement, study fees build up social barriers, thousands of job seekers, colleague Scheibner, are waiting for an apprenticeship. [[Abg. Scheibner: But there is the Vienna City School Council!]] [[Abg. May. Controllers: They go to pension voluntarily!]] [[Further calls to the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Each year, in the middle and higher education schools, there is the same picture: Many highly talented young people who want to do a training that is urgently asked by the economy, such as in the field of mechanical engineering, are rejected for lack of space. Many qualification projects for which EU funding is available cannot be carried out because national bodies have to refuse or refuse co-financing because labour market support is massively starving by this federal government. And so much money remains in Brussels, which would actually be intended to stimulate our labour market. However, not only the Federal Government is aware of its position by means of an economic policy passive approach, but also the domestic companies benefit too little from the market in front of the doorstep. A great opportunity would be offered here by the PHARE programme to build infrastructure projects in the candidate countries. This is where far more distant countries, such as Denmark, are able to achieve a multiplicity of funding through contracts. What's that about? – Perhaps in terms of the quality of the representatives of the economic operators who may not comply with their information mandate. We don't know, but what we know is one: If not – and I hope it is not too late yet – massive efforts are being made to pick up missing people, then our country will be geographically in the middle, but otherwise it will be quite right in the corner. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's never too late, Mrs. Colleague!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9590	The next speaker was Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9608	Mr President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the beginning of my speech today, I would like to put a quote by William Shakespeare: ‘The good must be soft for better reasons.’ There are good reasons to be in favour of the accession of the ten new states to the EU, to which most of the Freedom Party will agree. Two do not agree. That happens in agreement, that's party line. For me, there are better reasons to send a signal that we are very EU-critical in three issues. I am sure that every Member in the House hears the voices, fears and concerns of the people on the question of enlargement of the East, especially on the question of transit in Tyrol, the Beneš decree and Temelín in the East. For us, social security, health and a viable environment are important. This is just one of the important concerns of our Freedom Party for the Austrians. The Austrians need that, but perhaps we are the only ones who have a critical voice on these issues. We liberals know that our two votes against are symbolic. There are several reasons for this, one of which is above all the rigid attitude of the Czech Republic. So far, there have been 59 incidents. This is a high risk potential. We didn't get anything there. The Czech Republic is very unscrupulous about Austrian concerns, although the Energy Management Agency has recommended the decommissioning of the reactor, because it does not make sense economically. Currently, the majority of EU countries are committed to the nuclear future in Europe. However, enlargement will change the power ratio in favour of the nuclear lobby, that is, in favour of those who promote nuclear energy. This is a very difficult situation for us, because it may mean a step back for a long, long time for many things that Austria has done so far. However, I would like to quote some press releases in recent weeks: The Upper Austrian Greens call for a committed protest by the Federal Government against an expansion of Temelín. – My voice is the protest against further expansion. This is a free voice, because we are very critical of it. In Prague, Minister of Agriculture Pröll has criticised Temelín harshly. – My voice is also a sharp criticism of Temelín. Greenpeace rejects the preference of nuclear power in the European Constitution. – My voice is the rejection of the nuclear power lobby. The Czech Environment Movement “South Bohemian Mothers” calls for the resignation of the Deputy Czech Minister of Industry and for a referendum on nuclear energy. – My voice supports this environmental movement. [[Abg. Sburny: Your voice is a voice against enlargement!]] SPÖ Environment spokesman Ulli Sima accuses the government of taking any incident commentless. – My voice is a clear sign to the liberals that we will by no means accept these incidents without any comment. My voice should be a signal to Brussels and Prague that there is still a great need for action in some things. Neither will the Czech Republic come by. We Liberals support the peace project Europe. This makes it clear that we welcome the accession of the new countries in this respect. But this Europe must not fall victim to the competition of economic lobbyists, this Europe should be the home and future of the people living in it. Therefore, it would also be necessary for Brussels, but also the Czech Republic, to make changes in its policy. We take the fears and concerns of our citizens seriously, so I will vote with no for the liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: All or just you?]] In order to document this position of the government, I would like to put forward a motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that even with this motion for a resolution, this government shows what we want, in what direction we are going and that we will not give up, but will also fight for the future of this country. However, I would like to say one more critical thing: It is on this issue of EU enlargement, I do not think, if the various political groups of the opposition blame us or believe that our behaviour is within political motivation. It was a difficult decision for us. We have really done something about this, and I believe that with this signal to Brussels, with this signal to the Czech Republic, we have not only put a signal, but documented our position in order to make it better in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9718	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mr Kopf, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9739	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have recently heard an extremely interesting talk from a employee of the company Contrast Management-Consulting, which means EU enlargement in terms of the opportunity for tourism as our largest service industry in Austria. In principle, he stated that the demand for travel abroad, i.e. the so-called tourism imports, was rising. By 2010 European tourism imports – at constant prices and, of course, exchange rates – and demand for travel abroad will be expected to be immense and will grow significantly. Clearly, due to the effects of EU enlargement, these foreign journeys of the candidate countries are also expanding, and the tourism regions, and my constituency above all – for which I am very, very grateful – benefit the communities and, in particular, the enterprises. And I assume, in the presence of the representatives of the acceding countries, that the interest of the Austrians in the accession countries will also be increased, because they want to know the beauty and benefits of these countries. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! From the guest structure we have about 45 percent from the German sector, 26 percent from the domestic and, of course, many from the European area. 5 percent of the winter stays in our constituency are already due to guests from the acceding countries. In the last year, there has even been an increase in the number of guests. I am very, very grateful for the accession countries our greatest value added, namely tourism, is also in line. Without guests from the enlargement countries, I say quite openly, we can no longer compensate for certain intrusions in other markets. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is important to recognize these markets and also these growth horizons in a professional way, to overcome language barriers, and in particular – and this is to be said in this House – to keep our youth, namely the Austrian youth and the youth of the candidate countries, open to the appropriate future prospects. High house! I also welcome the fact that the European electoral system will be amended accordingly, in particular with regard to the municipalities and the voluntary members of the municipalities, because the ban on counting will be dropped in each election. The 22 o'clock rule is lost – the co-chairs will thank us – and the electoral process does not need to be put to rest, and thus the fear is unfounded that there may still be corresponding electoral potentials to be stimulated here. In this context, I am bringing in a motion for a amendment that my colleague has unfortunately forgotten, which is very important, but which is now staggering from my speaking time. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President. I would ask that this amendment be negotiated. The iron curtain is now hopefully also removed from the heads. I am proud to be a member of the political generation, which can also be very welcome to the candidate countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9850	The amendment just read by Dr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr. Cap, Scheibner, Dr. Glawischnig is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. As the next speaker, Mr Bauer, I should like to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9871	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We all know, I think, how important this step is, and we all feel it. The older you are, the stronger you feel the historical change that has taken place with it, starting in the compulsory school, when Austria was still divided among the occupation powers, then the complete sovereignty of Austria, and the entire way of this Second Republic captures a naturally with great emotion. From this point of view, enlargement is also to be seen, as this enlargement is being democratically implemented and carried out by people. There, where this does not yet happen sufficiently, we should do everything we can to ensure that it is understood emotionally that problems can be solved better in the wider context than in the national context. The legal conditions for EU enlargement have been created, and it is up to us to shape the framework conditions in such a way that this enlargement can really be done freely. The creation of this great area of freedom, peace and prosperity must be our perspective! Of course, there have also been skeptics about such a Europe; one has spoken of Eurosclerosis and has always taken a disproportionate part in the setbacks. But, in reality, this Europe has a radiant force! We can see that many countries want to enter this Union, which will ultimately not only become economic and monetary union, but also a social union. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is also important to point out that we have not done our homework enough, for example in expanding the infrastructure! One can already get the impression that, although the various speeches always mention the importance of this enlargement to the Eastern area, the conditions for this, for example, in the transport infrastructure were not really created. I believe that there is a great need for investment if we are to benefit from future opportunities. I have seen again and again in many surveys and also in my activity: The 1989 border opening was welcomed by most people, and the fact that the 50-year-old marginality is being ended and that one is again in a central position has been associated with many hopes. I believe that the candidate countries are also in the same ‘happiness situation’. However, much has to be built up in economies which account for only half of the average gross domestic product. The European Union's products are faced with a double transmission process, namely to create the legal conditions for EU conformity, but on the other hand to solve the issues of unemployment, national growth, which is quite satisfactory in the growth figures, but which still have to be done much in the budget deficits. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is part of that policy that needs to be developed step by step together! As a person living in the border country, I know very well that, as far as the labour market is concerned, there are, of course, fears. The transitional period is a really good opportunity to bring about harmonisation so that the labour market is not under pressure in Austria and therefore cannot come up with certain political moods. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address Mrs Rosenkranz in the light of what I say: Of course, an act of injustice cannot remove any other act of injustice, but after today's approval, which comes from the heart, we must also consider further discussions in the historical process. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask Members to join this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9941	The motion for a resolution just read by Mr Dipl.-Ing. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that he has sufficient support; he is involved in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9963	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Given the isolated euphoria on this enlargement, which has been documented right now, I am able to take some realistic views of this enlargement of the EU. Of course, we Austrians are citizens of Europe. We are EU citizens, ladies and gentlemen, but we are, above all, Austrians, and we are proud of that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why we have to represent in this House of Austria's interests, because this House here is also called National Council, and not International Council, precisely because we have the interests to represent the national interests of Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Isn't that embarrassing to you at all?]] And there are now concerns and fears – legitimate concerns and fears! – the population with regard to the enlargement of the European Union. I do not share the opinion of some previous speakers, especially of the Social Democrats, that they should convince the Austrian people that the concerns are not justified. No, no, no, We must take seriously the concerns of the Austrians. That's our job! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Lopatka.]] These concerns concern, as we know, the issue of security, the issue of jobs, especially economic concerns. And, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that corruption, organised crime, lack of legal certainty and the like actually exist in some candidate countries, and there is also a lack of environmental standards. [[Abg. Oillingers: Not only in acceding countries!]] It's certainly unquestionable! Now I'm just asking you about the greens: Where are your critical words? Where is the outrage, the disappointment, the fear of, for example, Temelín? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] This scraped power plant is operated unhindered! In recent years, they have been happy to come with Sunday speeches, but today, since the day would be to raise the voice against it, today we hear nothing from you – except euphoria! And that is not fair to the population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Do you vote against it?]] We liberals are sending a signal! We traveled in 2000, 2001, and drew attention to how dangerous Temelín is for the Austrian population – and, of course, for the Czech population. However, if the interests are not perceived there, it is unfortunate. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Do you vote against it?]] We have it here in the National Council in our hand! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that we have to be on the hat in EU activities has already been shown several times. I recall the EU's illegal sanctions against Austria. However, they have finally been a shot at the back for the agents, a clear blow for all those who have initiated these sanctions. Another example of deep disappointment is the transit regulation. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Well, then work something!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will not be tired of stressing that Austria has a right to transit! Austria has, formally speaking, a right to it. The question is, of course, only: What does it help? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For this reason, we are putting in place a motion for a resolution containing the following text – and I would ask the Socialists and the Greens, in particular, to really consider whether it is not possible for them to join this motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I cordially invite you and ask you to check seriously if you can agree. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mandak.]] Finally, Mr President, a word on enlargement euphoria. It is true that there is no doubt that we are securing peace with this enlargement. [[Abg. Oillinger: Are you for it now or against it?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, it is only for the sake of peace that this will not always apply, because then we should also have enlargement talks with Russia as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: What?]] And I cannot imagine that, with the exception of Mr Gusenbauer, someone is interested in it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10167	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, has been tabled by the honourable Member. Mainoni, Mag. Mr Regler, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10196	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! It is said by the founding fathers of Europe that, if they had a second chance, they wanted to align Europe according to cultural and mental historical ideas and principles. If this idea had been implemented at the time, many of the new candidate countries would have already been and would have become European Member States of the first hour. History has developed differently, but there have been great men in Europe and in Austria who have made bridges before the EU membership of Austria. I want one of them. call it the current coordinator of the Stability Pact for South-East Europe Erhard Busek. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] He went to these countries in difficult times and struck cultural and scientific bridges, bridges to the people, to those who were good will and full of courage. I only mention some of these projects, of which good cooperation is still alive today and through which it is expanded: CEEPUS, the great mobility programme for Eastern and South-East Europe, with European contact points, further university cooperation, the Graz process; the natural contact between the University of Vienna and the University of Brno – of course, because I believe that representatives and people of our region have more to do with these regions of Europe than with Vorarlberg, Swabian territories, Switzerland or other regions –; countless scientific cooperations, cooperations such as Austria-Slovakia, Austria-Czech, Austria-Hungary, projects such as the Danube Rectors' Conference and so on. From all these contacts we live today, and through them we naturally move towards each other. – Thanks to the initiators on both sides. I am pleased that Minister Gehrer has continued these projects in the school area with school partnerships, school cooperations, Austrian schools in Prague and Budapest, and has placed emphasis on education and education in the way of cultural contacts. Finally, I thank Secretary of State Morak. He has recently held his fourth major cultural conference with 25 European countries, thus contributing to a communication and exchange of views. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] – Thank you for your consent. A final remark: If I first point out the informal connection that has been prepared through culture and science, I would like to encourage a project entitled ‘Central Europe’, so that those countries that feel connected in this sense can re-connect themselves to make important lobbying in Brussels for themselves in order to be able to raise their voices well and loud in the 25th concert. As a member of a distributed family, I would like to say: Remember how many years after the withdrawal of the occupation powers in 1955 the Historic Commission for the Reprocessing of History was established here. It's been several decades. So let us not measure with different standards! [[Demonstratative condolences with representatives of the Greens.]] And with words we deal very carefully! As Heinrich Böll once said: One and the same word can comfort, but also destroy! More sensitivity to us – and welcome! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10275	As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10294	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! A historical review was already offered several times today and was spoken of by a historic day. I think that's certainly true. A significant step is taking place today, a significant step that shows us that we are willing to develop Europe's peace project. However, I think it is quite appropriate to limit the excessive euphoria a little. Mrs. Lunacek has spoken of a rupture of the liberals, of misunderstandings in the liberals – I have mentioned that – and I have made allegations of, from her point of view, any omissions. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: The Federal Government!]] Mrs Lunacek, I can tell you the following: Mr Wittauer is not voting against today because he is a representative of Wittauer or because he is a Tyrolean, a potentially Tyrolean transitor or even a tireless one, but because he is our environmental spokesman! He sends a signal, because that has a signal effect! The same is true of my colleague Barbara Rosenkranz, who has also spoken in the field, namely as a sales spokesman, and will vote against it – not as a person, but as an interlocutor. [[Abg. Neudeck: Now the Greens have understood!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is also about showing problem areas. You're not supposed to disappear over that! It is important to us liberals that this happens. It is an essential concern for us. These two Members are therefore responsible, because it cannot be the case that we are going to the agenda with the accession decision, according to the motto: It was nothing! However, in view of the overall vote on ten candidate countries, we do not want to punish all those who are on a good path. Let me briefly address those two topics which we see as a problem: It was only recently that incident number 56 was recorded in the Temelín power plant, as I mean, Monday nuclear power station. We know that agreements concluded with the Czech Republic with Temelín have not yet been fully complied with. We know that in recent times the prospect has been that two more reactor blocks will be built in Temelín, which was announced by the Ministry of Industry’s “Tyden” weekly newspaper. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I do not necessarily feel this as a confidence-building measure, even if Foreign Minister Svoboda calms down and points out that this is the general political discussion that is currently taking place, but which has not yet entered a decision-making stage. He also stressed that the commitments to Austria were still true. Austria could trust the Czech in these questions. What does it look like? – In the second half of 2004, i.e. following the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union, the official proposal will be submitted to the government and for 2009 enlargement by two reactor blocks is envisaged. It is also to be noted that these two reactor blocks cannot be part of the milking process. But you're wearing this thing. Let me make a few remarks: We know that there is already overcapacity in electricity production for the Czechs. We know that further expansion of nuclear power in the course of a liberalized electricity market actually leads to a dead end. We know that cross-subsidisation, i.e. a grant from domestic Czech customers to electricity, is not EU-compliant, so that competitiveness on the international electricity market is not distorted. Let me say critically that there is no serious concern in the monitoring report or progress report about the areas I am referring to Temelín and Beneš decrees. – As regards Beneš decrees, it has already been discussed here that there is a contradiction. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The 1993 European Council clearly noted that the stability of the institutions is a guarantee of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect and protection of minorities. In this context, however, there is a contradiction. Beneš decrees are illegal to human rights, ladies and gentlemen. I share the opinion of the ÖVP Klubobmann Willi Molterer, who said that the process is now beginning with accession. It is not completed, but it begins with accession. We Austrians should and want to accompany this path. We want to accompany him constructively, but not uncritically, and we are sure that in this way we will also meet the challenges, meet the risks and take advantage of the opportunities!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10362	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10380	Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today some have spoken of a historic day. I underline this from the point of view that it was possible 12 years ago that former Yugoslav fighter jets with sharp ammunition and bombs on board had flown over Graz Thalerhof. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Dragons have driven them out!]] I would also like to stress this in view of the fact that tankers in Bad Radkersburg then took up one of the most cruel wars in Europe of the last century. I also emphasise this because I would like to remind you that at that time the EU, Europe and the whole world were watching. I am already in need of explanation to my children in this regard, and all of us will also have a need to explain to our grandchildren in that Europe and the world have simply been watching. Today it was also spoken of as a “day with historical significance. ” – It is a historic day for all candidate countries and for the EU, but it is also a historic day, especially for Austria, which has one of the longest external borders to the new Member States. Decisions of historical scope only find acceptance in the population if they are comprehensible and the population feels that their fears and concerns are also taken into account. I believe that one cannot deny that the feeling of euphoria, which was still present in 1994 in connection with more than 60% of the consent, has now turned into a massive EU scepticism or a massive EU frustration. And I say that the EU and everyone we are involved are committed to it. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: You're in government!]] But I also say: We liberals have nothing to blame for, for all that we have prophesied has unfortunately occurred. They were those who at the time promoted this euphoria with the Federal Government with an all-encompassing marketing campaign almost in the form of brainwashing in the population! What happened? – There has been additional bureaucracy and an ever-increasing process of decision-making in Brussels. There are majority decisions and no longer the principle of unanimity. Her killer argument was at the time: Austria has a voice in Europe with the Veto, we can block everything if we want! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] In the meantime, the principle of unanimity has been softened so that it is only more relevant on essential issues. How was the introduction of the euro? – We have also prophesied that the schilling will be done away with. However, especially on the side of the SPÖ, it was thought that there would be no such thing and that the schilling would remain for us. – The introduction of the euro speaks for itself. Finally, I have to say that now, the decision of fourteen to one against Austria on the question of transit was only more the bulwark on the i in order to strengthen the existing EU scepticism within the Austrian population: In the meantime, the EU is seen as a threat and no longer as a chance. We must now take the concerns of the people seriously, especially those which are now directly linked to enlargement. One of these problems is the increasing number of cheap workers at our borders. This problem cannot be ignored. These concerns must be taken more seriously than ever in the light of current labour market statistics, in the context of increasing unemployment and also of the increase in the retirement age! [[New call of the abg. Hagenhofer.]] But I also believe that neighbourhood policy should not be misinterpreted. Neighbourhood policy must not lead to a ruinous displacement competition, but neighbourhood policy should be a common regional policy with common understanding and shared responsibility! I am glad that our Federal Minister has succeeded in implementing the seven-year transitional period with Germany massively, and we will also ensure that it is not softened. This is an important point now, and we are all called on to make sure that there is no evasion here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the context of Austrian tax policy, too, it will be necessary to ensure that Slovakia – as we have heard – will introduce the flat tax and there will be lower tax rates, that our policy will be adjusted in this sense at some point, or we will have to take into account that there are other tax possibilities beyond the borders. It cannot be in the interests of the Austrians that Austrian businesses will be increasingly transferred to the new Member States in the future. Many other positions can also be considered critical from our point of view, such as nuclear policy, agricultural policy or support policy as a whole. If you read the funding report or the corruption report and consider the misuse of taxpayers' money up to really large frauds with funding funds, you have to bear in mind that this is about taxpayers of all Member States and taxpayers of all the citizens of these Member States. Finally, I would like to say something: It will become increasingly important for us to act more self-confidently within the EU in the future. If one adopts a different attitude, then this must not be seen as insulting. I say that very critically and also from my own experience. Our civil service in the EU has now partly adopted a reflective attitude. Once a minister says a critical word, he is often recalled by the civil service in so far as he is told: Please don't have a different opinion! On this point you can't take a different opinion again! A rethinking process must also be carried out in this regard! I also say this critically with regard to the ongoing discussions. We Liberals, but also this Federal Government, have already found a new way and a new approach to the various issues within the EU, sometimes addressing things that we may not necessarily want to hear, and expressing the appropriate criticism, which ultimately also results. Our task will be to seek allies in the future, especially in the new, even smaller Member States. I see it as a great opportunity that, in the interests of the Austrians, we will jointly find new allies in the small Member States to implement common concerns. The smaller countries will have to get closer together in the new EU and in the larger European Union towards the larger and more powerful countries. I believe that we have good chances in this regard if we are self-confident. We may then be able to move the population back to a change of opinion or mood, even in the interests of the Austrians, if the citizens feel that their interests and concerns are being represented honestly, efficiently and emphatically.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10451	The next speaker was Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10469	Mr President. High government! Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals are a European party. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And we will remain such in the future, but an EU-critical European party! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In connection with the criticism of the Greens that we are voting against, I must inform them: I don't understand that the Greens are so big supporters. Especially in protests with regard to Temelín, at the border with Wolowitz, where I myself was more than 100 times, the statements, such as the colleague Moser, sounded a little different. That's why I'm making an investigation. Why do two of our speakers vote against? – Because a single vote on the individual countries is not possible! Since there is no single vote, we have decided to place a sign. That is why two of our colleagues, for the reasons that we would vote against the Czech Republic, namely because of Temelín and because of the Beneš decree, that is, the right to vote against it. We are also voting in favour of the accession of countries that have actually done their homework. To inform the Greens: ==References== In May 2004, the European Union will be enlarged by 10 Member States to 25 Member States with a total population of 455 million people. This enlargement will be decided here and today. We are in favour of EU enlargement, but not without If and But. There are many economic and security advantages, but unfortunately also some disadvantages that we Austrians have to purchase. We must accept what the EU wants on some points where our problems have not been heard or are not recognised. One example is the transit question: In this respect, Brussels does not accept the Austrians' wishes, which is why we need to take tougher measures to prevent the worst. It is very important that a transitional period of seven years has been negotiated under the FPÖ Co-Government on the free movement of workers in order to prevent the fear of floods of low-cost workers. A major problem with our neighbouring country of the Czech Republic is, of course, the previously mentioned Temelín nuclear power plant, which is close to the border with Austria. Unfortunately, the old government among the SPÖ chancellors did nothing when the power plant was built, and only by the initiative of us liberals, in which it was made aware of the problems and concerns that might arise in this context, did the interest arise. The fact that the Austrians do not want and need nuclear power stations has already shown the referendum regarding Zwentendorf when the majority voted against it, which is why thanks to God there is no nuclear power station in Austria. At the Temelín AKW, as my previous speakers have already mentioned, it has as 1st. Since December 2003, more than 56 incidents have already occurred, such as leaking lines and much more. The population is rightly afraid of their health and their lives, which is why the many protests on the border, whether in Upper Austria or in Lower Austria, are justified. Unfortunately, the negotiations with the nuclear operators and with the Czech Government have not brought about much. Unfortunately, the milking process has not yet been implemented by the Czech side to 100 percent. In addition, there will be votes on an extension variant, against which we are acting accordingly. The Beneš decrees, i.e. these wrong decrees, have not been abolished to this day. The protests, on the other hand, unfortunately hit deaf ears in Czech politics. That's one more reason for our process. In today's vote, we will send a signal, as unfortunately no single vote on the candidate countries is possible. All these are reasons why we liberals behave in the way we behave, even if it does not fit the Greens. We are voting together as a team and therefore different. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Oils.]] We from FPÖ are the only ones who will send a signal to Brussels with this vote and will continue to monitor the problems.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10546	Mr Dr. Reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party He is well aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But he doesn't stick to it!]] He will certainly be happy to stick to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10578	Thank you, Mr President, for this very kind recognition. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the European Parliament Walch has just – as usual – claimed that the Reds did nothing against Temelín at the time and that the current government had only begun to act effectively against the Temelín power plant. – This claim is wrong. The right thing is that German Chancellor Vranitzky The first was an initiative in this direction, namely to convert the Temelín nuclear power plant into a gas power plant – and therefore the claim is wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10613	The next speaker was Mr Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10631	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Today has often been spoken of as a historic moment. I think it's an epochal step, one step in 21. It will change the political landscape and truly shape the political landscape globally. I hope that at least from a green point of view, and I will try to summarize and explain this in a number of points. On the one hand – and in this respect there is God, thanks to consensus – has succeeded in setting a peace-political milestone. EU enlargement is a concrete form of security policy, as we Greens expect and present it to us, and this path is going to be real. An additional sentence: In this context, it remains completely unexplainable – and will always remain in the space historically – why we need fighter jets at this moment and should also finance in the next few years. - It's just on the verge. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Economic policy is actually an understanding of a ongoing process. In recent years, we have had to owe our somewhat good economic situation, especially the increase in imports/exports to the new neighbouring countries. The ratification of the accession agreements is therefore only a logical next step. Ladies and gentlemen! It is culturally and democratically political, I believe, that it is the really crucial step towards a new Europe, because in this way our neighbouring countries will also participate in democratic political decision-making. They will, together with us, shape this path of the new Europe, and it is therefore all the more important, in what form we are holding the debate and with what intensity and target orientation we bring in aspects. In this respect, from a green point of view, the image you offer, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, is no different from being described as torn, defensive, small and sometimes even small: It's totally inappropriate! In the Federal Government, too, it can be seen that this totally different view could only be put to the test, so that a very defensive overall impression arises. I miss the forward-looking statements from the Federal Government – apart from the fact that they have long, at least two to three years ago, in a clear sense We should have done what we wanted. - All of this didn't happen. Your requests today remain far behind what we expect. I would like to refer to some of the critical comments. First of all, we Greens themselves have made many critical comments here, but they refer primarily to ourselves, namely to us as part of the European Union, which has its homework to do. For example, we must in principle rethink the delicate issue of transport policy. There will be a new economic area, a single political area, and it will be one of the urgent first issues to establish a new transport policy in Europe. I am already pleased that after the European elections, my colleague Eva Lichtenberger will strengthen this struggle for Austria and for the Austrian population, but will lead in the sense of a pan-European policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is the real challenge: to pursue European policy – even here in this House – and not to believe with some additions on this or that side to solve the problems. From the environmental point of view, enlargement is a huge step forward, because it finally applies uniform standards, namely European standards, also in these accession countries. Even though we still have many criticisms, at least these uniform EU standards will then apply, ladies and gentlemen, and this is a huge step in the right direction. In the area of agriculture as a whole, too, there are challenges which I have not heard at all today. There was no mention of solutions, necessary concepts for a common environmental and agricultural policy. 40 per cent of the area, ladies and gentlemen, is added with this enlargement, and that means we need production alternatives such as genetic engineering-free soya from Hungary. This would be an opportunity for Hungarian agriculture and also for Austrian farmers, where they have the opportunity to develop joint projects. And it will be an important thing to develop projects together! We will only be able to take advantage of this special opportunity for Austria if we actively pursue our goals if we actively approach our neighbours and develop concepts in the field of culture, economy, environment and agriculture. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Therefore, we cannot go along with your request from the EIA on the protection of human rights by the Czech Republic, because our request is much more concrete. He says that we want to set up a future fund, not papers, but to make concrete policies. This is what we expect from this Federal Government, and we are unfortunately very disappointed in this respect.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10711	The next speaker to speak was Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10729	It is important to explain why we cannot accept individual requests from the two government groups from the SPÖ. The first request deals with the issue of Road Costs Directive and Austria's transit policy. This application is sluggishly formulated, in which it is only spoken of as “testing”, possibly “implementing”. So here's something like this: The government should make an effort, and something will come out of it. There are no exceptions to the national rules governing the Road Costs Directive, such as night driving bans, on weekend trips. Above all, the demand for a common Austrian position for this EU Road Costs Directive is missing, namely that this is in a foreseeable period of time – for example until 30. April – it has to be implemented as well. – The social-democratic parliamentary group cannot accept the fact that this is not contained and that this request is so dirty and imprecise. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second request concerns the enlargement of the European Union. . The field of labour market measures has been completely hidden, but this is very important given the record unemployment in Austria since 1950, and the unemployment that exists in the applicant countries. There is also a lack of the whole aspect of the necessary revision of the Foreign Employment Act regarding freedom of movement for workers and freedom to provide services, which is also hidden. Furthermore, the idea of the Regional Partnership is contained – in turn – which has not actually existed until today as a form and institution, but which is at the same time the root of the problem, which is why we have not yet implemented on many issues in the European Union. It is believed to be against the will of the current candidate countries and the former crowning countries of the Habsburg monarchy to be able to fight against what seems to be a developing core Europe. It is spoken of as consultation, lobbying and common interests. I am not aware that these candidate countries are willing to be guided by Austria. Therefore, on the basis of the points mentioned above, we cannot accept this request from the government parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I come to the third request of the government parties concerning anti-atomic policy, which is one of the particularly weak applications. In reality, the government has long passed from the zero variant, and the milking process has long since failed, but failed. Even today, the government bank had to admit that the EURATOM revision conference has not yet been established, that there is still no support for Austria's initiatives in this respect, and that there is still no anti-atomic front in the European Union that Austria should have initiated with the countries that have already adopted nuclear energy. There are just things listed here. It is likely that this is a political value for the FPÖ Group so that it can now agree to ratification. But essentially, what was written here is not worth the paper on which it stands. That is why we will not agree to this request either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I come to the last request of the government parties on the issue of human rights/Czech Republic. I can only agree with what the previous speaker of the Greens said: Our own request includes a very concrete demand with the Future Fund. I would also like to say that the choice of reasons in this motion is contrary to the choice of words chosen in the real motion for a resolution. In other words, a support for conversations is truly not the choice of the reasoning in this causa. On the basis of the fact that the motion for a resolution itself does not contain anything specific, we cannot accept this motion either. By the way, I would like to mention: If you allow all the requests to happen, then you have to say that this is an admission to the failure of government and foreign policy, an admission that you have not prepared for the enlargement process that is now beginning and becoming real, and an admission to the previous foreign policy conception. – This has been nicely summarized in writing here. All these failures, which one should have done for a long time and have not done, have been put to paper again, they will be decided once again, and the government, as it has worked so far in this area, will probably not be able to do anything again. That is the reason why we cannot give our consent to these requests, but very likely we have tabled our own requests, which our speakers have very well justified today and for which I would like you to support them.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10816	The next speaker to speak was Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10835	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It is amazing that, in the context of this debate on enlargement, all of a sudden, the requests from the government groups are “to blame” on the issues of content that we should have addressed in the last 15 years, such as the transit problem. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: We haven't been there that long!]] I would like to comment briefly on these two requests and to justify our voting behaviour. On the first request, on transit: It remains to be seen that it is only a placebo that is a calming down – precisely because the request has been made in connection with the enlargement discussion – in order to ensure the consent of the liberals in any form. But it is at least a concrete point, and that at least gives us the hope that at least you take self-bindings seriously, and that is the complaint. However, you remain remarkably inconsistency at the content of the Road Costs Directive. Nevertheless, we will vote in favour of this motion, and we hope that you will take this resolution seriously this time and that it will not again be one of those motions for a resolution which will then disappear into Parliament's drawers and will never be implemented. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Otherwise, the second request concerns Austria's policy towards the Czech Republic concerning the Temelín nuclear power station. I would like to say one thing about the procedure: There has always been - and this is a good tradition in this House - a common basis, a motion for a resolution on which Austrian anti-atomic policy has been built and on which our neighbours have tried to release nuclear power from Central Europe or at least work in this direction. So far, there has been this every time, but not this time. This is due to the government factions, which, by way of their way of doing so today, have managed not to inform us, although we have negotiated this four-party resolution today and the common roadmap has stated: There is a subcommittee in January, and in the January plenum we will try to adopt a common outcome. What are you doing? – You do not inform us that you are simply submitting a request that is far behind what three parties of this House decided in July last year as a common basis for anti-atomic policy. I find this procedure embarrassing because you obviously have no interest in finding a common basis on important issues. I think it is extremely dangerous that one does not even strive for such a consensus. That's what you've been playing for today. However, we will not agree to this proposal because of the procedure, but because of its weakness. Its content is clearly behind what the National Council defined in the last legislative period as the basis for its policy. And I am really sorry that Members like Mr Kopf or Mr Wittauer cannot even rely on such issues.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10877	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee, the conclusion of the Treaty between the Member States of the European Union and the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic for their accession to the European Union and the Final Act in 230 of the Supplements. Article 2 of the Constitutional Act on the conclusion of the Treaty of Accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic to the European Union requires the presence of at least half of the members and a majority of two thirds of the votes cast. I therefore begin by stating the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. I correct – the two Members have hidden behind the size of Mr Hofmann: This is largely accepted. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: There's a hiding place, too, Mr President.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Stay back! That's a joke!]] The two-thirds majority required for a constitutional purpose is present. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act, that the embodiment of this State Treaty in Danish, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, Greek, Greek, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Swedish, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish, Czech and Hungarian must be carried out in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it to give a sign. – This is also accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on improving Austrian-Czech relations as the Czech Republic joins the European Union and the establishment of an Austro-Czech Future Fund. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr. Eins, ladies and gentlemen, on enlargement of the European Union and internal Austrian accompanying measures. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Molterer, Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues on the security of human rights by the Czech Republic. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. (E 28.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Molterer, Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues on enlargement of the European Union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 29.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kopf, Mr Wittauer, Mr Wittauer, on the continuation of Austria's consistent anti-atomic policy, in particular with regard to the Temelín car. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 30.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Sadden, fellow Members with a view to further improving Austrian-Czech relations as a result of the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union and the establishment of an Austro-Czech Future Fund. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Mainoni, Dipl.-Ing. May. Regulators and colleagues on a new road cost directive and Austria's transit policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. (E 31.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the Committee's request, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Decision of the Council of the European Union of 25 December 1990 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on trade between the European Economic Community and the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on trade between the European Economic Community and the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on trade between the European Economic Community and the European Economic Community and the European Economic Community and the European Economic Area (OJ L 32, 15.2.1988, p. 1). ==References== In September 2002 (2002/772/EC, EURATOM) amending the Act establishing the general direct elections of Members of the European Parliament, annexed to Decision (a) it is complementary to grant approval in 209 of the supplements. In view of the above-mentioned constitutional supplemental provision, I first place in the sense of § 82 para. Paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure establishes the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting to approve the conclusion of the present State Treaty, together with declarations, in order to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the procurement of this State Treaty must be carried out in Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. We now proceed to the vote on the draft law concerning a federal law amending the European electoral system and adopting a Federal Act on the European election in 2004, including the title and receipt in 288 of the supplements. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr. Cap, Scheibner, Dr. Glawischnig, colleagues have tabled an additional request. In view of the fact that there is only one application, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt, taking account of the supplementary request referred to above. I am looking for a sign of approval for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking in favour of this. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. 4. Point Government Template: Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT) as amended by amendment of 26. June 2001 (218 d.a.) (In accordance with § 28a GOG, no committee preliminary advice)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11009	We shall now proceed to item 4 of the agenda. The preliminary work in the Committee was suspended in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure. The only speaker to speak was Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11036	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of EUMETSAT contains essentially amendments editorial nature. That is why we shall vote in favour of this protocol. Nevertheless, I do not want to abstain from some information because we are increasingly affected by weather conditions. EUMETSAT is an intergovernmental organisation that currently belongs to 18 European Member States, including Austria. An important task of this organisation is the operation of European weather satellites providing high-quality data for the weather forecast, but also for the long-term observation of the climate. This makes it much better to predict where and when storms, floods or droughts are to be expected. It is very welcome that 53 African states benefit from the new technology, which are far more affected by climate change and dry periods than Europe. The PUMA project, covering all sub-Saharan countries, aims to establish an independent network for weather monitoring in Africa and is supported by the European Commission and the European Development Fund. This cooperation model is a very special and important project, because African specialists are trained to continue to work as an instructor in their own country. With these and further cooperations, for example, between the USA and Europe, an important step towards comprehensive climate monitoring is being taken. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11073	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. In accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall now proceed to the vote. The purpose is to approve the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT) as amended by the amendment of 26. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (313 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends a Federal Law on the National Foundation for Research, Technology and Development (FTE National Foundation Act), the Income Tax Act 1988, the Federal Finance Act 2003 and the Federal Finance Act 2004 (Federal Finance Act 2003), a federal law which authorises overruns of expenditure approaches of Annex I to the Federal Finance Act 2003 (Budgetabschreiblungsgesetz 2003 – BÜG 2003), amends the ERP Fund Act and the Ausländernder Arbeitsgesetz, adopts the Federal Act on the Temporary Immunities of Loans to Exhibitions of the Federal Museums, and amends the ASFINAG Act (Growth and Location Act 2003) (324 d.b.) 6. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law amending the 1994 VAT Act (325, e.g.) 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (276 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Employment Insurance Act and the Pension Scheme Act (326 d.b.) 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template 295 D.B._Other Organiser Amendment to Annex II to the Convention on the Testing and Name of precious metal articles (327 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11143	We shall now proceed to points 5 to 8 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. First speaker, Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11165	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Actually, today would have been the last day in 2003, when this Federal Government would have had the opportunity to decide on an economic recovery programme, and I must say that we miss the Minister of Finance in negotiating such an important item on the agenda as the growth package here. He's probably alone in the forest like a rumple. Good thing no one knows I'm a finance minister! The last labour market data show the following situation in the Austrian economy: Firstly, we have new record values in unemployment, and secondly, we have the previously unknown phenomenon of youth unemployment. And we have a government that in St. Wolfgang, one part 282 kilometres away from the other, announces large: Now is the break for the economy! But already at the performance here in the house on the 12th. Klubobmann Molterer admitted, in his speech at 11.20 a.m., that it is not an economic recovery programme. Let us look at what is here to vote. . We have a law that sets out a reasonable step in itself, namely, the means provided by the Federation for Research. But the most important thing would have been to explain where the additional resources we need to get from 1.9 or 1.95% of GDP to 2.5 percent. 2.5 per cent, ladies and gentlemen, are a modest approach – I already know that in the past we are significantly behind all other countries – but this modest step also requires new money. It is not enough to wait, to blame the Austrian economy, to complain that private individuals are not doing enough research. Anyone who says this must be aware of the need for an incitement, and this must be done by the public authorities. Here we celebrated the provision of 125 million € great. – Where do these resources come from? €70 million is provided by the National Bank in the form of the Jubilee Fund. 9 million of them stay with the National Bank, so 61 of the 125 million € mentioned above are not additional funds. €50 million comes from ERP funds. But the government, which submits this draft law to us, has not clearly clarified this new form of the use of ERP funds until the time of the legislative process with the American partners who have made this money available for the reconstruction of the country. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's really terrifying!]] That's what I call a government that can't even do their homework, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now one would at least follow the argument of understanding and say that there should be a more long-term financing. But no one tells us what happens when the National Bank has no profit in a year. Because then, ladies and gentlemen, we have the problem that a disbursement of funds by the National Bank violates the rules that there should be no financing of state tasks or deficits by means of the National Bank. And then not only is the Minister of Finance missing – his guarantee is that the funds will be paid out of the Federal Budget! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At this point, it is also the question of the experts who will manage these funds. 125 million € are a considerable amount, and in order to manage these funds, the management of the AWS, which has not just been awarded by professionalism, is used as before – rather than experts from research and development. All the other points in this growth and location law, ladies and gentlemen, concern things that really have little to do with the location. However, I would like to say two positive things at this point: firstly, that you have followed our criticism of extending the investment premium – I am grateful that you have followed our criticism – and secondly, we would have expected more, namely another IFB – to extend the research allowance if we see too much “fortitude” and too little focus there. One thing I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen: What does it have to do with a growth and location law that in future chambers, butlers and similar house staff may be taken with them as a kind – I don't know what – “attachment of managers”, outside the quota regime? What's that supposed to be? We no longer live in the 19th century. ==References== There's enough domestic labour. This has nothing to do with the economic package, and we are going to vote very differently on these points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11213	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11232	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to Mr Matznetter's comments, I can only say what I have said in the Financial Committee. Mr Matznetter, the facts and data speak against what you have said, because under this Federal Government, as far as growth is concerned, with regard to stability and with regard to the labour market, we have achieved much better data than the entire euro area. With regard to growth: We had 50 percent more growth, both in the previous year and this year, than in the eurozone average. As regards stability: In the area of deficits, the euro average is twice as high as ours. As regards the labour market: Our unemployment – every unemployed person is too much, no question at all – is only half the size of the euro area average. [[Abg. Sburny: And growing fastest!]] Whether stability, growth or the labour market, no matter what number you take, Mr Matznetter: This government has a perfect current account and the present package will continue this current account balance in the future! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] - What do you mean? [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Worse youth unemployment!]] But you can still not disprove that, whether growth, stability or the labour market, we are far better than the average of the EU countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is not to be disproved. You have not been able to disprove this in the Financial Committee, you have not been able to disprove it here, and your calls for action cannot disprove it, Mr Matznetter. In other words, this growth and location assurance package, which is now available for decision-making, is the continuation of a consistent successful economic policy of this government based on three pillars. First base arrow: Stability in the government budget, second pillar: Investment in the future, and third pillar: discharge of citizens and businesses. – A consistent continuation of this policy! This government has also succeeded in finding a balance between growth and stability. It is a mistake to believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the growth target can be achieved at the expense of stability. Today, we see empirically worldwide that growth and stability are not opposites, but rather one another. There will be no growth in the long term if public finances are not in order. So stability is the prerequisite for economic growth. As far as investment in the future is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to address it even further, this growth package contains the biggest investment in the future that this Parliament has decided in recent years. I'm just saying a keyword: 20 billion € alone for the infrastructure! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where?]] € 20 billion for infrastructure from 1999 to 2006. Ladies and gentlemen! We know, and this government is aware that the EU enlargement that we have just decided with such overwhelming majority is, of course, a huge challenge for us, namely a huge challenge in the competition for the site. This is why local security has high priority for us, because local security means ensuring jobs, means securing income opportunities, and that means ensuring social security. – That is location security, and that is our absolute priority. This is for us future design and responsibility for the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let me also say: This government and the government groups are fully aware that this enlargement of the European Union – and we are all proud of the decision, and many speakers have expressed their joy in previous debates – means, of course, a redistribution of opportunities and risks in the local competition. And here are still tasks ahead of us, ladies and gentlemen. I know this as one who for over 20 years has had the joy and honour to represent a border region, namely the forest district, here in Parliament. Of course, this is a huge challenge, and I am therefore pleased that this growth package provides €100 million for the economic promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises in the border regions and a further €100 million for the better capitalisation of these businesses. The AWS, the Austrian Economic Service – we have had discussions over the last few days – will create the conditions for the border regions in this larger new Europe to have a fair chance that businesses in the border regions, entrepreneurs and their employees will have a fair chance to work successfully. A long-term strategic disadvantage, namely with the back on the iron curtain, extreme frontier situation, has been eliminated, we are back in the heart of Europe. We will benefit from this opportunity, and I am glad that today we can decide on this site and growth package.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11318	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11346	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) “Kraut- und Rübengesetz” (Kraut- und Rübengesetz) I hear in an interlocutory call even before I started my remarks. – Yes, that’s right: a law of herb and beet. In the short period until 3 p.m., I would just like to address a few general things, to the special ones only after the deadline debates. You really don't know if you're upset by some of the government's practices or if you should stay calm and calm. – I will now decide for the latter. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. This economic package is called by the ÖVP as Roman III. Parts of these were already included in the government programme, parts of them were presented as a government programme in an ÖVP clausur at the Wolfgangsee, then again in press conferences. And if the whole thing is going through under this title ‘Economic Package III’, I am also ready to be here in the parliamentary debate the actual law that you have always announced under this title to compare with what your original intention was. I have been concerned about this Bartenstein-Grasser-Finz Action Plan – there are many pages; They also gave it to the press, no special art – and in it 15 pages are listed relatively positive things. But we don't have to fight great about it now, we are always approaching in other points. The fact is that there is only the least here at all. You've just scratched a curve, that is, the whole thing rebaptized into the location and growth law or so on, where you've written everything you can – from herb and beet – to budget excesses, to things that have nothing to do with location and growth initiatives at all. Many provisions appear in it, laws that have nothing to do with them. I would once encourage, only in the sense of a legislative clarity here in the house, that you put things together as well as they are sensible, leaving them as independently of each other, as it would be useful. This rumour and hero-knocks, as you've been multiplying this lately and obviously stimulated by Making your budget-accompanied law with the 91 laws doesn't do anything. But be it, that's just the general criticism. I have to tell you, there's almost nothing left of what was originally announced. That does not mean that individual points are not also positively assessed by us. I will, and of course also my controversies, come to speak on it in detail. But this has very little to do with economic policy, we simply have to admit that. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] It remains – with you perhaps even more ideologically motivated than with us; I am right too – the investment increase premium remains the only instrument that, in a narrow sense, really affects the economy. The Wifo has confirmed that this measure is not so bad at all, and that is why it is also a clear consensus to be reached if we extend this premium – I assume unanimously – by one year. But then it must be concluded because it is also about the credibility of policy, economic policy in this case. It is not always possible to extend it at all times, because it would also make little sense as an economic instrument. In addition, an investment growth premium, which amounts to the last three years and calculates the difference to future investments, would only make businessmen stop doing nothing for three years and invest anywhere every four years in order to achieve as many tax advantages as possible. It must be clear: 2004 must end with the premium, just as my speech is now provisionally over; I will take it back later.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11408	Mr Kogler, would you like to continue this speech? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, this one!]] That means it's just a break. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] I am now interrupting the negotiations on Agenda items 5 to 8 on the implementation of a short debate. Short debates on deadline applications
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11451	The first brief debate concerns the request made by Mr Dr Josef Cap, the Financial Committee for reporting on Mr Mag.'s motion for a resolution 245/A. Lapp, ladies and gentlemen, concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act, a period of until 31. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, pursuant to Article 57a of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, but the first speaker may speak for 10 minutes. Opinions from members of the Federal Government should not last more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Christine Lapp. 10 minutes speaking time. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11490	Mr President. Members of the Government! Imagine, on your way to work, you have a car accident. Your car is crossed, and you land in the grave after several hits. Your car has total damage, you yourself wake up in the hospital after several weeks and notice that you are paralysed from the hip. After you have come between two ÖBB trains, you find that the leg needs to be amputated. After several weeks of rehabilitation, try to get back to life. With the funds of the accident pension, you can purchase additional services and aids in order to also actively participate in life. But since 2001, the pension has been reduced by one third by a blue-black government by taxing it. Since then, you have to consider at every step whether you can afford it and how you can participate in life. You are still lucky if you can continue working in your profession and your employer supports you. For three years, accident pensioners have been pushed around and thrown around – more than 100,000 people! After the introduction of this tax, the social democracy of the Constitutional Court of Justice took effect. Its knowledge has given the government the task of repairing and withdrawing this non-social measure. The government has in dilettant By means of a rigidity scheme and by launching a repayment action for 2001 and 2002, in which the tax was not automatically refunded, but had to make long-term applications. And not all accident pensioners have yet recovered the unjust tax! In 2003, the European “Year of People with Disabilities”, the tax on accident pensions will continue to be abolished and retained without suspension measures. The government is baffling itself with the fact that the tax will no longer be lifted for 2004 – but we are still in 2003. In ads it is pretended as if someone else had taken this money, this tax, the disabled people out of the bag. That's unheard of! ==References== December, the International Day of People with Disabilities. The government groups still have the opportunity to agree to the request for a deadline by the Socialist Group. The retroactive abolition of the 2003 accident pension tax would be an important measure for disabled people in Austria. More than 100,000 people are affected and have paid € 172.6 million in net in the budget in recent years without getting a single support! Today, people affected by the gates of Parliament have pointed out this last opportunity to abolish the 2003 accident pension tax. They were insulted by representatives of the ÖVP, such as Mrs Steibl, to the greatest. I would like to read you an e-mail from a woman concerned: I took part in a protest action by the accident pensioners in front of Parliament today. The members of the ÖVP, whom I have just recognized in the ORF's parliamentary delegation, Mrs Steibl, have insulted us in an incredible way. We just wanted to hand over a leaflet to her when she said we'd rather work something – and we're not all disabled anyway; the money for leaflets could be saved. It also says in this mail: I was horrified because a colleague in the wheelchair had to listen to the whole incident live. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an immense and unscrupulous fragility that the representatives of the ÖVP and the FPÖ have not even dealt with the people concerned! These have not deserved disabled people who stand alive or “roll ” through life, who only wanted to point to a hair - rubbing injustice! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Christian-social!]] Government representatives are demasking themselves here. At Gala receptions on the subject of “impeded people”, the heart-and-mortar disorders are highlighted, but in everyday political work, the needs of disabled people are ignored. [[Abg. Amon: Mrs Colleague! We were together only 14 days ago at the integration...!]] Mr President, because you are so upset, I would ask you: Show backbone and vote for the retroactive abolition of the accident pension tax!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11546	We are now going into the debate. Each speaker has 5 minutes of speaking time. First speaker is Mr Dr. Drinkl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11570	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are repeatedly dealing with accident pension taxation. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, unfortunately!]] I am pleased that the debate will then end sometime by the end of the year. The last time we've got ourselves on the 12th. This question was discussed in November. Mrs Lapp is right in so far as she pointed out that the SPÖ had brought the decision to the Constitutional Court of Justice. However, the Constitutional Court clearly confirmed the constitutional conformity of pension taxation. It has only lifted them because the regulation at that time was too rapid, and from the point of view of trust protection, the accident pension tax has been abolished for 2001 and 2002. You know: He explicitly confirmed the constitutional conformity of taxation in 2003! However, for constitutional reasons, the provision was withdrawn at the beginning of 2004, but even a re-introduction from 2004 would be clearly constitutional. And you know that too, ladies and gentlemen. One of the reasons for the introduction of taxation was the creation of a system-based but also a principle of equality. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Lapp, do you really think it fair that recipients of private accident pensions are taxed, but that recipients of statutory accident pensions remain tax-free if the benefit is equal? Or what do you say to the victim of a car accident, which also has to face permanent damage to his life, whose pension is fully taxed, while the pension of his colleague who had an accident at work is not taxed? Or, Mr Oellinger, what do you say to a heavy worker who, due to his serious work in the event of an accident at work, has the same damage as his colleague, but who is getting an invalidity pension that is subject to full taxation? Is that fair, ladies and gentlemen? Is this inequality fair? – I don't think so! I would also be curious, Mr Oellinger, what the Constitutional Court would say if an invalidity pensioner brought this question to the Constitutional Court! One pension is tax-free, the other in the same amount is subject to the whole tax. I would be curious what the Constitutional Court would say about this! Ladies and gentlemen! They indicate you want to protect the little pensioners. However, they are not saying that the current scheme applies only to high pensions, because pensions up to 20 000 S – at the time – have been tax-free – and you know that – just as you are hiding here that the severely disabled have received a 50 percent higher pension, so to speak, the nettorte is higher than before taxation. All these things don't matter! [[Abg. Silhavy: This shows your mind!]] In the year of people with disabilities, they only want to strike political capital out of a very, very difficult question, Mrs Colleague. And finally, of course, you also conceal the fact that, within the framework of the Disability Bills, the disability associations have received significantly higher contributions and support from the funds that came from the accident pension tax. These funds also benefit those who receive small pensions and are not at all affected by the accident pension tax, Mrs Lapp. That too, I hope, you know. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They see that the debate on fair and socially suspended taxation of all income makes sense and is also justified. Nevertheless – still! – we stand for the recognition of the Constitutional Court and add us fully to the orders of the Court of Justice. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: What else?]] Your request for a deadline is too late, Mrs Lapp, because, as you know, the taxation of accident pensioners expires at the end of this year, and – and I can tell you that too – it is not intended to reintroduce the accident pension tax. [[Abg. Oils: Who says that? - That's what you're saying!]] [[Abg. What about Lopatka?]] Our clubman Willi Molterer made this clear, and the SPÖ representatives should also take note that this will be so!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11666	The next item is Mrs Schönpass. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11684	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Dear guests! Since 2001, accident pensions have been taxed again in Austria. It must be known that two thirds of the last year's reference is used to calculate the accident pension. The third third of the annual reference has always been disregarded, since it was considered to be a tax replacement. From the point of view of the approach, the accident pension is therefore a gross-for-net benefit; therefore, the accident pension tax is de facto a double tax. – This can be found in an ÖGB issue. As a result of a SPÖ action, the Constitutional Court lifted the accident pension tax for 2001 and 2002. Taxation thus expires at the end of 2003. In practice However, the tax for 2003 is still being abolished – a circumstance with which no socially-thinking person and not at all the stakeholders can find themselves! This burden will be intensified for the 110 000 accident pensioners by exploring the ÖVP to continue the taxation in an adapted form in 2004. Ladies and gentlemen! Time is running, and the accident pensioners are threatening to look through the inaction of the government. That is why I wrote an open letter to the Federal Government together with some of my colleagues. In this we call on the government to establish clarity: Is the accident pension tax continued in an adapted form, as recently announced by the ÖVP, or is the clean path of abolition, including the re-funding, of accident pensioners? The FPÖ is to show whether the then Vice-Cancellor and Minister of Social Affairs Mag. Main statements concerning the joy over the end of the accident pension tax also result in concrete actions. You, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, have the opportunity to prove this today. Our urgent appeal, which we have also sent to the club members of ÖVP and FPÖ to abolish the accident pension tax for 2003, I address to all Members of the Government. This matter deserves to be considered, not in the interests of party politics, but in the interests of those involved in accident pensions. Therefore support the SPÖ deadline application! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11723	Mr Dolinschek is speaking now. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11742	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Taxation of the accident pension has been abolished by the Constitutional Court because there has been too little transitional period. So the accident pension itself has not been abolished by the Constitutional Court of Justice because it is unfair, but because it has been introduced too quickly. The accident pension exists, I believe, since the last century and is no longer in this form in modern times. One has thought about how to achieve, as colleagues before me have already explained, fiscal equality between private accidents and those suffering from a work accident. I admit that the whole thing was a little unhappy, and I will also make every effort to ensure that the accident pension, as it expires at 31.12.2003, is no longer introduced in this form. That's also what Mr. German Minister Herbert Haupt... – Who says that? [[Abg. Oillinger: The accident pension does not expire!]] [[Abg. Oils: The tax!]] Mr President, the tax system in this form has been abolished and will no longer be introduced in this form. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Which one? What form of taxation is coming now?]] Mr Commissioner, listen to me. – The accident pensioners from 1st century onwards. In July 2001, an accident occurred, and for these people, there must be a possibility that they, like those who have a low accident pension – up to 20 000 S – will also receive the tax refund. The year 2003 is now about to end, and the Federal Social Offices will refund for those who have an accident pension of up to 20 000 s – and also for higher pensions – and not for those who receive an accident interest of – what I know – 6 000 or 7 000 €. In fact, it is a big difference because the taxation of the accident pension has been so that the accident pension has been paid according to the type of profession, income. If an apprentice has suffered an accident, he has a low accident pension, and if a Member of Parliament has an accident on the journey from and to Parliament, and that would be an accident at work, he will receive a high accident pension and even tax-free. This is unfair in this system. But we will work to ensure that in January those who have not received a refund and from 1st. In July 2001, an accident occurred, including the possibility of recovering the tax deducted from the hardness fund.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11805	Next word: Mr Oellinger. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11823	Ladies and gentlemen! There will already be a reason why the Federal Minister of State and the Secretary of State, who took part in the debate until 3 p.m., then left the hall. It is not only the responsibility of the Federal Government as a whole – that is also – and the government parties in particular – but it is also about the fact that, in autumn 2003, Mr. Federal Minister and the Secretary of State, there was a great deal of funding: ‘As of 1.1.2004, accident pensions are tax-free!’ It goes on to say in this non-cheap listing on page 7 of the “Kronen Zeitung” – it obviously interests the Clubobmann Molterer, where it was advertised –: “In this year”, namely 2003, “the accident pension tax law is still valid, so it will be repealed this year too. However, in cases of social hardship, support may continue to be sought from the competent national office of the Federal Social Office." This is wrong, because this support can only apply for those pensioners who, if you want to do so – in this case, you can't speak of luck – who had wrong, a work accident up to the 1st. ==References== They can make use of this possibility. But – and there, of course, Mr Dolinschek is right, but he tries to get out of the way – those who had the bad luck, the accident at work after the 1. In July 2001, it is still not with the Härtefonds in 2003 and has no exemption from the accident pension tax. However, these are retroactively exempt by the Constitutional Court’s ruling from the 2002 tax when they had the accident in 2001. Of course, you have to ask the question: What does a Federal Minister think when he tries to inform about an advertisement, but the information is not correct? There you have to ask the question – and this does not specifically refer to your speech, Mr Dolinschek: What does a colleague Drunkl think when he brings the question of justice here? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] – Of course, Mr. Drinkl, the question of justice. And according to the level of justice, you also have to look at the accident pension, whether taxed or not. But let's start with the accident pension as such. We, probably also you, find it unfair that someone who had a job accident in the early years as an apprentice, was doing a really serious job accident, so a very low pension, although he may hardly be able to work any more. This is related to the low income. But someone who has had a high income, but a slight accident at work, compared to that in young years, is relatively well off. Mr. Drinkl! Now we're making it even more complicated. What about those who have a professional disease – I have a number of examples – and at the time when they learn that they have a professional disease, do they know that they will die in a few months? They do not even experience the procedure for this occupational disease indicator! Maybe there's something leftover, then they'll get something. But otherwise, despite accident insurance, the company entirely stems from its responsibility for certain persons. Is that fair? The accident pension was always – unfortunately the judgment of the VfGH is only too superficial – also compensation, liability of the company. And if I see this, then I have to address this question quite differently and then I also justify the exemption from the accident pension tax. What you are doing with this non-intervention now is creating an uneven situation for 2003. One is entitled to support from the fund, the other is not. This is already another case for the VfGH. I hope you know.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11885	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Financial Committee for reporting on the motion for a resolution 245/A by Mr Mag. Lapp, ladies and gentlemen, concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act, a period of until 31. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We now come to the second brief debate on the request by Mr Brosz, the Committee on Education for Reporting on Amendment No 284/A (E) by Mr Brosz, colleagues on emergency measures to prevent unwanted and unwise teacher changes during the school year by early retirement. ==References====External links== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. [[Abg. Oillinger: Business treatment!]] Mr Oellinger! Business treatment.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11921	Mr President. Since this request is about calling into question the current rules on early retirement of teachers and therefore setting a deadline here, because the practice is not relevant and the Minister of State Gehrer has made relevant comments in recent days, we attach great importance to the presence of the Federal Minister in this debate. I therefore propose that the Court should reply as follows: Mr Gehrer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11957	You heard the request. There are no further statements on business treatment. We shall now proceed to the vote. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who join this motion by Mr Öllinger to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: (in the direction of Greens) This is a shock!]] We are going into the debate. You know the Rules of Procedure. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Members of the government, state secretaries, have a speaking time of 10 minutes. The applicant is the first to receive the floor. This is Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11999	Mr President. Love not existing woman Minister for Education! Ladies and gentlemen! No one has spoken of the government groups in order to justify non-presence. There seems to be a very different way of access when it comes to deadlines. ==References== We had a deadline for the International Protocol on Railways on September. The government was concerned with addressing the ÖBB, and it was quite clear that Mr. Gorbach and Mr. State Secretary Kukacka participated in it and spoke. When it comes to concerns which are currently being debated in the public in order to address the concerns of the Austrian school system, it seems that the government is not worth the effort to debate itself in Parliament, and I very much regret that. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] These early retirements have now become effective. What we have predicted as well as the colleagues from SPÖ has occurred in many areas. At the beginning, after trying to get in touch with many schools, I would like to take a look at what has been happening in many schools in Austria since Monday. Feedback from schools from all over Austria. Unfortunately, Mr Großruck is not there, I have a feedback from the BORG Grieskirchen for him, which he should know as mayor. The staff representatives will write me back to my request: Especially hard hit was a matura class, as in this class of mathematics, physics, biology, geography and the class board had to be reoccupied. Again to stress: a matura class a few months before the matura date! In many compulsory schools, there is a picture where it is especially so that, with effort and need, there is still regular education. In many It is increasingly the case that teachers are now teaching subjects for which they do not actually have training, and that all that has been laboriously built up in the last few years is being questioned. In the hunting alley in the X. district in Vienna Attitude of the Legasthenia courses, by the way, a phenomenon that you should look at more closely. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Wiener Problem!]] – I think Vienna is also part of Austria. We can also talk about Vienna. Grieskirchen is, as I mean, in Upper Austria and not in Vienna. It is also about other federal states. Setting of legathenia courses, funding hours and motor pedagogy. Legathenia is a problem of which about 10 percent of Austrian students are affected, where there is much too little action anyway. I think that a stop to these courses is an absolute step in the right direction. Vienna Engerthstraße: Also recruitment of non-binding exercises throughout the school. Then we come to Neunkirchen. Mrs. Brinek! Is that also in Vienna? – I don’t think nine churches are located in Lower Austria, as far as I know. A particularly interesting case. In the district of Neunkirchen, 40 teachers go to early retirement, of which 26 are reoccupied. And now it's coming! Of these 40 early pensioners, 14 are directors. 14 Directors in the Neunkirchen district – which is a third of the entire directorial staff – went to a certain date in early retirement. The attempt we've made in recent weeks was easy to say: Okay, we can no longer reverse the pension reform, we can no longer reverse the measures you have put in here. But we can at least try to minimize the problem that has occurred, namely that on the back and at the expense of the students. We have also made a lasting appeal with various measures and said: Let us at least try to open up the possibility that those teachers who, on the basis of – and then I come to talk about it afterwards – have made a request for retirement, at least until the end of this school year, without any disadvantages. The Minister for Education was completely sturdled on this issue. It was not ready to take appropriate measures. I believe that the colleagues from the SPÖ will today submit a concrete legislative proposal aimed at making this possibility... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] - Why don't you know that? Mr Scheibner. I'll tell you something. It is not common for applications to be made only three minutes before the vote. It may also be that other political groups are being informed about applications. [[Abg. Scheibner: We don't know that!]] This is quite a practice that is possible. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] At least we want to come to an emergency solution. Let's not put this on the back of the students! I think it would be one of the last chances to clean this up today and tomorrow. I have little hope, honestly. But it is worth trying, at least once again, to take responsibility for this situation to a reasonable extent. I think this is very unfortunate. But now I come to something that I think is quite questionable by law. These early retirement schemes refer to the so-called Federal Employment Plan Act. [[Abg. Lentsch: From that year?]] – I don't care what year it was. I can tell you what the particularly drastic measure is: the June reform, Mrs Colleague. It has been established in June that all those under 55 may also retire if they have already submitted an early retirement request. And in June of this year, there was a black and blue federal government when you depend on it. You have to answer this particular situation alone. [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you read the law?]] – I read this law, I also have it, I can read it to you, maybe you can get close to it. This law states that an official can be retired early, selected if his work is left out permanently and none of his previous use can be assigned to him at least equivalent work. Then point 6 goes on: No more appointment or admission shall be made to the office of a electorate. The office shall be cancelled with the retirement of the elected official. Mr Scheibner, if you already think I hadn't read it: Maybe you can explain to me what you do with the 14 folk school directors in Neunkirchen. [[Abg. Scheibner: You already know that early retirement can be refused if service reasons are opposed?]] Are the 14 folk school directors in Neunkirchen no longer reoccupied? Do the plans in Neunkirchen disappear? Are there no more directors in a third of the schools in Neunkirchen? Is that the solution to the problem? - It can't be! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[New calls from the Abg. Scheibner.]] – Mr Scheibner, you are welcome to speak. The members of the government don't talk anyway. I think there is enough time in this debate. Now I'm still talking. I believe that this solution is now also very dubios. I mean, the intention was originally another one. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer has also justified this. There are apparently people in the ministry who can no longer be used accordingly, and therefore this possibility has been introduced and created at all. It was about giving people who no longer use a chance to go in early retirement. This is absolutely not the case in the teacher sector. So in what form this regulation was really in conformity with law, will be to be checked. There are also other bodies than Parliament to review this. I believe that this will be an extremely interesting matter for the Court of Auditors to look at. – Point one of the legally questionable procedures. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is also the wrong law firm!]] Point two: As I said, even those persons who have applied for early retirement, who would actually be effective only later, have the possibility. There was a special provision on pension reform in June of this year or in July of this year, in which they would have the possibility, even if the applications were later asserted, as at 1. December of this year to go to early board. You have to think about it now, which means: This means that a special provision has been created for the public service, which allows people who have retired in a few years to benefit from a scheme under which they can still retire under the old pension law. This means, of course, seeing the cancellations spoken of in a completely different dimension, because they do not take place from what they would then get, namely if they went in three, four, five, six years, but after that, when they go according to the present system. That is not to blame the teacher, not at all. If you create such regulations, you don't need to wonder that all those who have the legal opportunity to use them too. They'll be stupid if they don't. But whether this is the meaning of this pension reform, which you have put to the discussion, you can already ask: On the one hand, the pension age is raised and on the other hand, the gap is opened by saying that even now you can go before 55, so that the education minister is apparently relieved of relatively high costs, i.e. older and more expensive teachers. I say to you that this reform has been a lasting one, and it is now being carried out at the expense of the students.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12149	Mr Amon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12183	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Just because Mr Brosz and, by the way, the entire opposition are constantly claiming, it does not become more true: The Austrian education system is also in excellent condition after all international comparison studies. Despite your constant attempts to make the Austrian education system ready, this claim does not become more true either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Brosz, on your request for a deadline, in which you write: Immediate measures to prevent unwanted and senseless teacher changes. First of all, on the question of “undesirable”. . I mean, it may be that yours is indescribable. [[Abg. Sburny: This is also unwanted by parents and children!]] But the teachers who use this model make the application themselves. No one is forced to retire early. This is also an opportunity to find a job for more than 8,000 young, trained teachers. You should also see this model from this perspective. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today, in the course of the debate on service law, there will also be a request from Mr Niederwieser, where he is trying to change things in service law, which are actually governed by the Federal Civil Service Plan Act. I am already drawing attention to the fact that your request is wrong in this regard, and invite you to correct your request so that you can properly formulate what you want in the application. Nevertheless, we consider the proposal that we should bring back those teachers who have now retired and then push the young teachers out of the system, and not be comprehensible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is reality? – The reality is that, since there is a financial balance in which the head figures, how many students come to a teacher, a teacher, have been fixed, since there is this regulation, in no way has there been a restriction, a change or even a reduction in the number of planning posts from the federal side. Just so we know what we're talking about. A teacher or a teacher comes to a school in Austria on 14.5 pupils. In the field of primary school, a teacher, a teacher, comes to ten pupils. In the polytechnic schools, a teacher or a teacher is assigned to nine pupils according to the establishment plan. And in the field of special education, 3.2 students come to a teacher or a teacher. This is the truth and nothing else. The establishment plans have also been covered by 1 277 plan posts. Vienna alone has received 602, i.e. half of all additional planning sites. It is therefore more likely to be due to mismanagement in the federal capital, rather than to the work of our Federal Minister, who is excellent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But it seems that the Vienna City School Council has not yet been able to obtain more than 600 jobs, which is why he decided not only to expand the service plan to include the additional 602 services, but also to create another 700 additional jobs, ladies and gentlemen! And now – those who go into retirement – one seems to want to make certain savings in Vienna, and that on the back of the Minister of Education, that is automatically to be re-occupied via the service plan. If not, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] By the way, you should not hide that teachers who take early retirement, discounts from 23.3 to 46 percent – up to 46 percent! – to be able to retire, ladies and gentlemen! This is also a not so uninteresting model for future debates on a pension scheme, namely to strengthen the bonus-malus sector. That concludes, ladies and gentlemen: If the opposition in Vienna speaks of the chaos, then you have to push the responsibility wherever it belongs. If the responsible official of the Vienna City School Council is dealing with out-party parties in the City School Council instead of dealing with the issues of the education system, then the responsibility is to give where it belongs! [[The speaker shows an issue of the “Kronen-Zeitung” with the headline: “Striptease-Party in the City School Council”]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12257	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Kuntzl. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12275	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Amon! So that we did this immediately: I find such deposits to be most embarrassing at birthday celebrations – no matter where they take place: whether in the City School Council or in other offices. I also understand the officials who celebrated their birthday and were embarrassed themselves. I don't see it as a compliment for a man to give him an extra dancer for his birthday – that gives me other associations; but that doesn't belong here. Mr Amon, one has nothing to do with the other. This is a very serious problem, namely this – to answer you with a different headline. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] [[the speaker shows the headline of a daily newspaper]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] It is about the fact that the highly willful idea of calling for an early retirement wave among teachers in the middle of the school year has created a difficult to deal with situation in the schools. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: The City School Council must approve this!]] Fortunately, there is no chaos at the Austrian schools, even at the Vienna schools. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is only a problem in Vienna! Miss management in Vienna is it!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Fortunately, there is no mismanagement, but the regular schooling is still intact, but – and this, ladies and gentlemen, is the bitter one – sometime only the regular schooling. It's not true that the young teachers are getting a chance now. It's a Mar! Because these posts are not re-occupied by new teachers, but by re-transitions, by reversing very important support systems, by soon having only the regular education system and no more support for children who need support especially urgently, for example children with non-German mother tongues who need additional German instruction, for example children in integration classes who need additional care, and so on. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The Legasthenic children have also been mentioned. The cost of remedial action will be reduced in the future. The question will be: The parents of which children can afford the additional support? What parents can no longer afford to do that? And I don't know what kind of society you're following here. What is the objective of these measures? You are going down the education system, decades of construction work, support work, many additional institutions and possibilities are destroyed, and you are talking about moving responsibility back and forth! By the way: A third – a third! – The teacher in early retirement went to Vienna in early retirement. So you see that there has been a special concern here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the present situation, ladies and gentlemen, there are only two possibilities: one is not to comply with the legal order anymore – and we still have the legal order for integration! – or we need more teachers to comply with the legal order. So: You have to decide which policy line you are following here. I hope that there is still political consensus in this House that the legal mandate for integration should be maintained. Because you're addressing Vienna: Vienna takes this task particularly seriously, and Vienna also wants to continue to fulfil this task. In Vienna there are 626 integration classes, in other Länder there are 20 or 30. Vienna also wants to continue to fulfil the task of running all day classes – in Vienna there is the political will to do so. There are 1 398 full-day classes – in the rest of Austria a total of 55. In Vienna there is of course a higher proportion of children with non-German mother tongues – and in Vienna there is the political will to integrate these children, and this political will will will will continue to exist, and therefore, of course, in Vienna we need the corresponding support teachers to a greater extent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, we support the Green Group's request for deadlines, but there is a debate on the second. Service law Novelle 2003 will also be able to support Mr Niederwiesser's amendment, and will then give him detailed reasons. Take this rescue anchor, there are the teachers – and there are many – who, if they had the opportunity to retire at the end of the school year under the same conditions, would make it possible. So you wouldn't have lost your face, you could do that, the teachers could do something they want to do voluntarily. We would have a much better situation in school, and the children would not have to separate themselves from their teachers.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12373	Mrs Rossmann is now speaking. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12391	Mr President. High house! Once again it is obvious that the opposition again misuses the School of Party Policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It's not the first time. There are many demonstrations where the children are abused. [[Call the SPÖ:Child Abuse!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] And now not only the children are abused, but also the teachers and the parents are abused by the opposition. The evidence is obvious. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Why are you so upset? [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: What about child abuse? What do you want to say? Do you even know what you're saying?]] The President of the City School Council, SPÖ Party, alone writes, on the premise of objective information to the teacher, that a law that had been taken by the federal government in the short term was the occasion for sending a large number of teachers to early retirement. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: A derailment of the special class!]] The date is inconvenient with 1. In parallel, the Federal Government forces the countries in the so-called financial compensation to comply with restrictive establishment plan directives and so on. The content of this letter, without any basis, is a smooth uncertainty, especially of the teacher, but ultimately also of the parents and students. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You're insecure!]] I'll tell you why: First – colleague Amon has already said it –: No teacher, no teacher, no director, no director was forced to use this early retirement model. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Which line do you follow except zigzag?]] They have gone voluntarily, often with big deposits, you know that very well! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Secondly, You also know that's a kann-destination. That is, the authorisation can take place. There are also examples of where authorisation has not been granted. Authorisation may only be made if there is no opposition to service-related interests. That is, if there are bottlenecks when director posts cannot be re-occupied, that cannot happen. Further: The approval, you know, is subject to the respective federal state – not the Federal Minister and not the Federal Authority, but the Federal State! In other words, the mayor of Vienna as a responsible school speaker would have had the opportunity to say no. Further: The approvals also of the Federal Teacher are in the country area, namely the National School Council. – Take note! All these are evidence that the whole debate you are having here is purely virtual – and the facts are different. [[Abg. Far from it: facts create and say goodbye to responsibility!]] But I also say to you that, as a result of the financial compensation negotiations and the establishment plans to which they belong, it was ensured that the number of planning posts would not be reduced. To Vienna, since it has now been mentioned again and again: The Federal Minister for Finance approved additional 602 plan posts for Vienna, which she also pays, which is also approved by the Federal Government after the 1. ==References== Only: What is happening in Vienna now is another story: 686 posts are paid by the city of Vienna. And it's obvious – and this has become clear again by your excitement, you have provided the proof – that Vienna now wants to reduce these additional planning sites, which the city of Vienna has paid, and simply wants to clean itself off and push this off to the federal government, so simply say that this is because of the early retirement model. Finally, the authority in Vienna has the permission to grant, and if it does so, that is the matter of the city of Vienna. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'm telling you, however, that things can be different – and now there's going to be a call again. It is different where the liberals have the saying, even in school politics the saying, namely in the federal state of Carinthia. Carinthia has planned in time, far-sighted, prudent. Carinthia has participated in the costs – with €34 million – and Carinthia has no problem with early retirement. On the contrary: One has the opportunity to finally employ 60 young educators on the waiting list in the school sector, enabling them to hire. And this is the big difference between the city of Vienna and a federal state in which there is a freeman of state who has the saying in school politics. Take note of this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Everything else is clear arguments from your point of view to abuse once again the School of Party Policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12533	The last speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12555	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. First of all, I would like to refer to Mr Amon. Mr Amon! If not even the school or educational spokesperson of the ÖVP understands and knows Austrian school laws, how should the parents of the thousands – probably thousands – of students affected, who are victims of these misguided, misguided, and even more malignant educational policies of the Federal Government, understand these measures?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I say something to you, Mr Amon: I wish you would have to go to the relevant schools in these days for parental speaking – but probably you will not recognize many people at the publicity you have – now as the Secretary General of the ÖAAB, who also represents the teachers, but above all many parents, and then listen to what the parents say about what is happening now. You will also be transferred if you compare the promises made by this government with what has actually been implemented in politics in recent years. In the 1999 paper, respectfully 2000, when the blue-black government formed at the time, it can be read that the Federal Government has known itself to consolidate, partially rework, the 2,000 posts that it had provided at that time for support teachers, for support measures, so to speak. These 2,000 posts were explicitly mentioned and recorded in this paper. I interpreted it like this at the time: If you write in 2,000 jobs, you think it should be more, especially in the education sector. It is known that this black and blue federal government is now doing everything for our youth – with its mouth, but not with actions, I say to that! And what's now? – I heard two or three days ago, as Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer said: The 1 300 teachers in this country are not questioned. Now I'm wondering, Where did the 700 arrive between 1999 and 2003? In Austria, about 700 teachers are now doing less of this kind of teaching. Almost every folk school is affected. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: That's exactly the number...!]] Above all, they are missing exactly there – now I repeat what has already been said – where there is a special need for funding! There they are no longer, there have been and the teachers are withdrawn. But that was and is the positive, the special and the valuable in the Austrian public school system. [[Abg. Gaál: It will be destroyed!]] Even if we show the greens and the social democrats, the opposition – and this is our duty – the gaps and the shortcomings in the system that still exists, we confess ourselves to the public school system and to what has been done in recent decades. You can improve it. But what you are doing is fruitification policy of the constructive measures that have been put in place in recent years! [[Abg. Donabauer: Don't be so upset!]] Conscious and willful! Mr Donabauer! That's why I'm upset because it's touching me – and if now all of their stories are going to go out, I'll do it too – when my son tells me: Mom, the teacher Ülkü is so stressed now! – Then I ask: Why is she so stressed now? – Because the woman teacher Katt is no longer there, and now she has much more work! Do you know what it means that a whole teacher is away from this school? And next week another teacher will get away from school. [[Abg. Donabauer: Half a teacher, too?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] No talk about giving young teachers a chance! Not at all! This is a hard saving on the back of education, the Austrian children, and this has this blue-black government to answer! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] And that's why, Mr Donabauer, I have to get upset. They are all supposed to be representatives of the “little ones ” and the“ great ” people. Only: The “great” people can articulate themselves, who have the opportunity to send their children to fine private schools and to finance fine teachers. But those who need it most urgently, who have problems in German, because they have come from another country to Austria, are the legatheists who need support because they come from social strata, where this is simply necessary, which do not represent you! I would suggest to you by the government parties: The children should come and tell you what they want, because unfortunately you haven't seen a school from the inside for a long time!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12669	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Committee on Education for Reporting on Amendment No 284/A (E) by Mr Brosz, fellow Members, on emergency measures to prevent unwanted and unwise changes in teachers during the school year by early retirements, a period of time until 4. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the request for a deadline to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12706	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 5 to 8 of the agenda. We have interrupted Mr Kogler in his speech. He's coming back to the speaker's desk now. His legal remaining speaking time is 16 minutes. As a limit, he wanted seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12727	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! We started earlier with the term “crout and beet” because there is always so much to be negotiated under one. This has now been confirmed in the "Pause" when we have another provision of law, the TOP 6, which is being negotiated here under one, once again entered into with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and this is about the implementation of the 6. Sales Tax Directive. I have to tell you the truth: It is not easy for the honourable Member to do so. We voted in committee; I do not want to address the details at all, which is very complicated. The thing is that we want to pursue a number of objectives here, namely that the EU Directive is implemented as closely as possible, that no surprising hardness arises for taxpayers and that this does not produce too many tax failures either. And when the whole structure comes back to life, I will, of course, look at the new regulation and check whether this agreement can remain valid for my group or not. In any case, this has been confirmed faster than I have previously predicted how the legislation in the House is going to happen. My colleague stupidly – I don't see him right now – has praised the so-called growth package in the highest tones. Let us remain in what we still find to be partly positive, which is certainly the approaches to research and development, as far as two areas are concerned. On the one hand, it is the consolidation of the financial flows – I emphasize: the consolidation – for the active research funding that the Republic can carry out, because so far, one has always depended on budget decisions at the other time. However, we must note that if we sum up all that you have promised so far, and what is now being sold as a new one, we only have a marginal increase left. I have to remind you, Mr President - wherever you listen to me now - that you are selling things four to five times here, as in other areas. The biggest chunks were the 600 million that have been discussed here in the budget debate, and now we have the question: What has the National Bank contributed so far, and what has the ERP funds so far? already operated on research funding – just differently organized –? – And we insist that in fact there are not much more resources available in the matter itself, but the adjustment of the funds is an acknowledged profit. However: Who has these resources? – Mr Greenewald will say something about this; I can only say to you: The construction of the Board of Directors, which is to have these funds here, does not make us happy. This is where AWS management is now necessarily to take place by law. I just have to sum up: As for the quality of the reigns in the AWS management, which have now received a post there, or the order of these posts, it was one of the blue economies of friends, as we know them, of the finest, I must say! I know what many staff agencies are working on, several times, to select particularly qualified people who have already been established, once again – because of objectivity – and who are still so unqualified that even the supervisory councils have concerns. By the way, these are blue, but that was said to them in honor: Mr Kofler, who is also sitting in the Supervisory Board – we know him – says that he has the biggest concerns about management, including the new one; there had to be a new order, and again there are problems! – And now this law is supposed to normize that precisely these rulerships are to possess the millions of research that you have so highly praised. So I recognize a certain weakness, I cannot say that we are putting a welcome thing in such hands. By the way, it will be good if we rethink the construction in so far as we do not only and exclusively allow ministries to decide on the orientation of this research funding in this Stiftung Council, while above where it would belong, the objectives and the guidelines are missing. In my opinion, this is a site problem that we otherwise have, for example in the Court of Auditors' control that, if the state spends a lot of money, it must meet any criteria! And I really warn that in this euphoria everything that only the heading “research and development” has to do with it leads to the fact that a level below is by far not as closely looked at or controlled as it is otherwise. In my opinion, there have long been no evaluations of what I am about to do at the next point. With the so-called economic packages I and II, we have introduced the research allowance and the premium with our agreement – I will delete it – with smaller percentages. In the meantime, we keep 5% premium and 15 percent free – this must always reflect a third ratio – that is logical – and now we are increasing again, the amount of the bonus to 25 percent and the premium to 8 percent. - So far, so good. But, I think, we must already see that these funds are targeted. The answer given by Mr Finanzminister in the Committee has given little cause for pleasure here. This has meant that the amount to which all this can be applied should now be interpreted as far as possible. I can only say: If the OECD issues the "Frascati Manual" in order to make research investment and expenditure statistically comparable – whether public or private – it must not yet be necessary to include all that is interesting for the statistical identification, immediately in the tax advantage. I have now asked myself, because the Minister of Finance obviously did not know this very well: The regulations that we have so far provided here in any event for a relatively reasonable system of how this research concept should be defined. And I'll tell you: Our agreement in this area, if we do Therefore, if we continue to assume that a reasonable regulation is either maintained or re-adopted here and that it does not result in, for example, researching travel destinations – which is theoretically possible – being funded taxly with possibly 25 percent of the basis of assessment. So we want to invest this confidence, and by the way, the evaluation as a problem has long been on and off. That is to say, on this point, a advance of confidence. The last point, Mr President – still not here – is the infrastructure investment. First of all, they're not in the law, and second of all, I have to stop you from your own documents, where you use the source ASFINAG, that the loud announcements and fictitious numbers are what you're bringing here. Investments from 1999 to 2006 are listed here. I would like to know what it has to do with future growth policy if you are constantly explaining here that some sums have been spent here from 1999 to 2002. Indeed, economic or growth policies should mean that we either avant new projects or prefer at least some. That's not what it's supposed to be! You put your figures, which have already been announced five times, on the table – this cannot be done as an economic policy, not even as a growth policy! By the way, I have to tell you: If you look at the exact figures, namely those of the ASFINAG and of the general transport plan, you see, the focus is not on the rail, but on the road with great weight, as far as the projects actually financed are concerned, and this is certainly a wrong course. The red light doesn't shine for any reason – I have the feeling that the minutes are over, so I want my...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12800	Mr President, you have seven minutes left. You can talk for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12816	That was not agreed. I will stop at the moment because many of my colleagues will still deal with this question. I can only tell you: Economics package or growth package is something else. In part of the research funding and in the investment premium, yes, but otherwise it is a complete fogging action, as we are used to anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12846	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann. Requested time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12864	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! It is about the growth package, and the figures tell us that there has been weak growth worldwide since 2001, and of course Austria is not spared. We are no longer an island of the Blessed because of the last debate we had on the enlargement of the EU, but we are also very difficult to escape from this global development. On the contrary, we are also exposed to these things and have to take measures to ensure that the economy in Austria does well despite the poor global economic situation. There are no large “cook recipes” here that can be used to counteract this global development, but one may think about some recipe. As for the recipes that have always come from the SPÖ, unfortunately the numbers show that they were not very successful. I would like to quote Mr Matzenetter, who has already said almost two hours in his speech, that he already knows that Austria has been behind the research figures in the past, but he does not want to blame the economy. It is not right to blame the economy, the private, for having invested too little in research. – With this, Mr Matzenetter is right, because... [[Call the SPÖ:Matznetter! Matznetter!]] – Matznetter – where is he? The colleague is not here, that is the problem, because he should listen to it. He said he didn't want to blame the private. – Yes, who is he then blaming for the fact that in the past we are mainly in the back of the research figures? I'll tell you: Of course, the blame can be seen with your government at the time, because you have failed to act here! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I know you can't hear it anymore, you already see it as a record that now has a jump, I know. But this record will be put on again and again, because you cannot create yourself here and blame anyone for anything, because you were the ones who failed to take action here. They did not invest in research. They have only managed to increase the research rate by just 0.4 percent of GDP between 1995 and 1999. These were your measures. The current government has managed to increase the research rate to 2% within a short time, and by 2006, you will see it, we will increase it to 2.5 percent. What you did was 0.4 percent. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mickrig what you did. So: The fault lies with you. – You should not laugh here, you should cry in the face of what you have missed, and not laugh. Really practice a bit of self-criticism, which you have not done, because we now have to do the work you have not done: first, cut down and rebuild the debt mountain, even if you can't hear it anymore, then we also have the current margin for this growth package. The first and the second growth package have managed to record an improvement of 0.75% in economic data within the shortest time – as Wifo says. Without the two economic packages already made, we would have had stagnating figures. So: This growth package makes sense, it brings something, and it's good that it comes now. It is important that it comes now and not at elections, not at times when you think you still have to distribute some sugar, but in times where it is also important and necessary for the economy. That's what you've always missed: In times where it would have been important and necessary to invest, you have not done it to stand up for it before the election, because there is more popular and better to take such measures. That is the difference in how to make responsible policies: by introducing measures for the economy, for the economy, for stability in Austria. We are now adopting the third growth package, a real fresh cell course for Austria and the economy. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] It brings more money to the economy, more money for research, more money and incentives for investment, more money for infrastructure, as well as support for small and medium-sized enterprises. And the nice thing for us to do is that there are two thirds of the free handwriting, because a large part, especially the research and infrastructure sector, comes from the Ministry of Free Infrastructure. In this respect, we welcome the fact that we have been able to take these measures together and put them in place. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The research measures in detail, because research is the future, and research also brings jobs, which is also an important area: 100 million are included in the research package, with an increase of 15 to 25 percent, with the increase of the research premium from 5 to 8 percent and the continuation. There is a unique incentive system in Europe for research, for attracting companies to invest in the future of our country. Another point is the National Foundation, made by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance: Here, 125 million € are spent annually for research. This amount shall be distributed by the National Foundation together with the ERP Fund. If you try again now – the colleague is still not there – to find a hair in the soup because you say you don't know where the money comes from... – He's looking for the hair in the soup, yes. [[Abg. Neudeck: He's looking for the hair in the soup!]] He's probably eating just because he needs to strengthen himself again. But here everything is always bad to talk, where a really good measure for research and science in Austria is being put in place, that is really cockying. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder.]] Even if you can't hear it anymore, my colleague, you will hear it again and again that we in the government are taking good action and that In your time of government, you have not managed to make a lot of money available for research and create incentives. You will hear this again and again in every speech, for the tenth, for the eleventh and for the twelfth time, I'm sorry. No, I'm not sorry, it's good that you hear it again and again, because you sometimes also suffer from forgetting certain things, not wanting to know any more, not being able to think anymore, or to think of what you haven't done. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder.]] So we have 125 million € annually available for research in the National Foundation, and this is a real and good investment in the future by the Ministry of the Future. Of course, in the field of research, we want to optimize the system in the future, improve the system with the combination of research funding instruments, because we also need to bring the entire PS to the streets, so as not to remain a lot in the administrative field, and invest a lot or put a lot of action to reduce the level of administrative and research funding for companies. When I speak of ‘bringing PS on the road’, the infrastructure area must also be mentioned. Here too, a total of €32 billion will be invested from 1999 to 2010. Even here you say again, that doesn't fit and that doesn't agree. But there are now some figures that will be implemented into reality, and of course projects will be preferred, because that is the meaning and purpose of a growth package that prefers projects that are necessary to give impetus here. We will, of course, also put in place the tax reform measures, which will take place from 1. January 2004 has already been decided, and there will also be a major tax reform that will be decided next year, according to God's will, even if the negotiations continue positively. We are making growth policy – that is future policy for our country, and that is a good future for Austria with this Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12974	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. To correct facts, actual facts, no political values. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13011	Yes, Mr President. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bleckmann has just said in a re-examination of her record that the previous government would not have brought together anything, because we had only achieved 0.4% increase. The current government would have taken a little further. I can tell you the numbers that are actually right: Between 1998 and 1999, there was an increase from 1.78 to 1.86, in fact there are only 0.08 percentage points. But between 1999 and 2003, it is only 0.1 percentage points. That means you've gathered 0.1 in four years, while I've already brought 0.08 together in a year, so almost as much. Mrs Collaborative, that was a weak argument.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13049	Except for the last three words, this was an absolutely correct actual correction. [[Abg. Scheibner: Correct, but weak!]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13077	Mr President. High house! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr President, I should like to return later on to the increase in research expenditure you have quoted between 1999 and 2003. First of all, let me make a few introductory remarks on the growth package before the House today. It has been said several times and correctly that Austria is similar to Europe and the whole world since 2001 in an unpleasant growth table. It is a growth weakness that has given us growth rates of just 1% plus/minus in recent years. This is less than we would wish, although I can say: We have managed to be above the average of the European Union and the euro zone in these years too. In any case, this shows that financial and economic policies in this country are in order and a good one, a financial and economic policy which, as the three pillars, provides a balanced budget over the economic cycle, a continuous reduction in the tax rate towards 40 percent, and a sustainable economic policy in the sense of supply-oriented rather than demand-oriented policies, ladies and gentlemen. We have responded to these economic weaknesses in good time and in good time. The economic packages I and II are known to you; in part they have been decided by a large majority in the House. You, Mr Kogler, have recently called for evaluations: It is right that measures should be evaluated as soon as possible, and we, the Minister of Finance and I, have also commissioned this from the Institute of Economic Research, including the IHS. And the qualification for the I and II economic package was so bad. The evaluation has shown that about 1 percent of this growth is the result and resultant of economic pacts I and II – a quite remarkable qualification by the Economic Research Institute, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I know that Mr Kogler would like – I would like to do so too – to evaluate the effectiveness of the research credits. They're not so far away that we could evaluate them. But we know – and this is what all economic researchers confirm – that the way to add a premium and now the increase to 25 percent research allowance and 8 percent research premium is a real one. However, I agree with you that there should be an evaluation as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let us therefore be quite satisfied that we have taken the right measures at the right time. Let us be satisfied that Austria has a growth in relation to the euro zone, which in 2002, but also 2003, 2004, 2005 by at least two, but partly by up to five tenths of points above. Compared to the large neighbours of Germany, the growth delta in the good sense of the word – that is, we are at the front – is a much bigger one. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, we have now tied up the growth package that is available to you today. I would like to focus on two main points in this growth package, namely the great leap in research and development, which we are doing, and in particular the financing of this leap, as well as on youth employment. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter – unfortunately, he is no longer in the hall and therefore cannot follow this debate – has criticized the said €125 million, which is to come out of the newly founded National Foundation for Research, Development and Technology each year, not or only to a very small part, of fresh money. - That's wrong. It's almost everything from this title fresh money, almost €100 million, because – and that's what you have to say to Mr. Matznetter – you have to look into the future and say: What will the National Bank be able to disburse in 2004 and 2005?, and not retrospectively look at what has been a source of profit in the past. It is now the case that in the next few years about €30 million can be expected from the anniversary fund of the central bank. These 30 million, deducted from the 125 million, generate almost €100 million of fresh money from this title for Austria's research, for Austria's future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Sburny: Maximum!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, only the increase in the research credits already described is estimated to be 25 percent free of charge, 8 percent premium from the financial sector with €100 million per year. In addition, in three years we will provide additional €600 million from budget resources for research and development. That is, over three years – 2004 to 2006 – it is no less than €1.2 billion of fresh money for Austrian research and development, and that is remarkable! This is remarkable because we can no longer define the 2.5 percent R & D share of GDP as a target, but can also describe the financial path to this objective. In this context, I would like to say what honourable Member has just criticized: Between 1999 and 2003, it was not 0.1 percent plus to F&E-Quote, Dr. Einm, but with an increase of 1.86 percent to an estimated 2.09 percent for 2003 it was over 0.2, namely 0.23 percentage points. It could be more, but at least it's still twice as much as you've been trying to make sense of the House here. [[Abg. Thank you:... comes to mind, Minister!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A criticism by Mr Matznetter was also that the Americans had not been talked to in terms of Counterpart Agreement and ERP. – Apart from the fact that your research ministers and your representatives in the respective bodies have made sure that Austria is the only country in the world that has not yet gained full availability from these ERP funds – we will do so now – I can tell you that on the basis of multiple contacts with the Americans – Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer has also been very deserving here in Washington; thank you, Dr. Gusenbauer! – a letter from the American ambassador Lyons Brown, in which he says: In principle, the government of the United States seek to support Austria’s request – that is, the American government intends to follow our intentions here. – The letter is available; Mr Matznetter's criticism is foreign and unnecessary. As for the private sector, ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised that a social-democratic parliamentarian just thinks that the private sector should not increase its share of the R&D quota. – Of course she should do it! The share is disproportionate in international comparison, and we expect the share of the private sector to rise and increase to the international 66 percentage points – from 58 percentage points at present. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The focus on research and development has, moreover, been qualified by the experts to make Austria the most attractive research site in Europe, at least in terms of tax – O-Ton Felder. Or Professor Aeginger, Wifo: This made a big throw successful. This is the second priority I would like to focus on as Minister of Labour, namely on youth employment. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is important to me that the House is also informed that the reception network provided by us is sufficient for young people looking for an apprenticeship but not getting one, namely the so-called training network, for 5,500 young people. The summit or dialogue on this subject, which took place a few days ago, for example, by President Vergestnich, has shown that the AMS experts have installed a safety threshold of more than 600 places here. In other words, from today's point of view, I can confirm: Young people looking for a course, but no one gets, get at least one course and in case of such courses, can come to the degree level. It is also important to me that this Federal Government or I am also able to tell you that we have lost out on the primary labour market for at least 5,000 young people between 19 and 24 years of age, which is lacking in completion, in the absence of adequate qualifications – in this age group unemployment is rising relatively strongly, and that makes me and us very concerned – with funds from the insolvency fund no less than €25 million in order to combat and guarantee these post-qualification programmes for at least 5,000 young people. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Let me conclude by thanking the social partners at this point, because I believe it is remarkable that the social partners have achieved a conclusion on the issue of sustainability – a long-negotiated issue, a topic where we do not want to tighten up and make more stringent regulations, but rather to modernise, to optimise the rules of visibility in the interests of the unemployed. We do not want anyone to be deceived and, after 12 months of unemployment, to become emergency workers without any protection. In this context, the social partners have said very clearly: There is a need for a certain amount of professional protection, but after 100 days it will be possible to replace it, in part, by means of income protection. This income protection is first measured at 80 per cent and after another 20 days at 75 per cent of the original income of the unemployed citizen. That is reasonable, because this improves the chances of mediation, and that is in the interests of the unemployed people of this country – just as it is in the interests of the workers and the economy of this country, that we link this growth package! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13143	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. Requested time: 5 minutes. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13161	Mr President. Minister! Colleagues from the government bank! High house! Despite these positive figures, Austria falls back, it does not help! They do not want it to be true, Lord stupid – he is not there; Ms. Bleckmann has now also gone – but it is. I quote: ‘It has long been one of the richest countries in Europe, but Austria’s economic performance has fallen below the OECD average in recent years.’ This is what “The Economist” writes in his issue of 15. November of this year on page 100. This is the international view, which is the international perception of Austrian economic policy outside this blue-black propaganda line. I would also like to give an example: This weakness in growth, which has been addressed here, is always shown in the international comparison. But that's only half the truth. Austria suffers massively from a domestic demand weakness, which is, of course, reinforced by political instability and the destruction of Austrian flagships such as the Post Office, the ÖIAG companies and now also the ÖBB. Of course, the high Euro course is also a problem that will burden us over the next few years – I admit that already. [[Abg. Jacob Auer: Is it me? Yes?]] But that's only coming in the next few years. There is – I refer here to the “economist” – a statistics on growth competitiveness, an index that looks at the future of these countries. Austria is founded between 17 and 18 years old. Place around. And that's actually the dramatic thing about this situation: We have fallen back on a sustainable basis! They say everything is great, but reality is unfortunately different – and people in our country feel it every day. I would like to take a short look at the labour market: Minister! We have record unemployment: almost 250 000 unemployed! That's more than Graz, our hometown, has inhabitants. In addition, 44 000 are still in training, so that there are almost 300,000 unemployed. That's a dramatic number! But there's something else to do here: There are eleven unemployed on an open job! – This shows the drama of the economic situation, in view of which nothing has been done here. There is still a new phenomenon in the labour market: not only youth unemployment, but the dramatically rising unemployment among academics. The level of academic unemployment is about three quarters of the unemployment of those who do not have a school degree. So here the highly qualified people approach the very poorly qualified – at the two edges of the labour market spectrum – in terms of unemployment, and this is a dramatic situation that we have to observe here. Now the actual law, the III economic package, which is now no longer called the III economic package, has been re-baptised into a growth and location law – certainly in self-knowledge. And that's where you're wondering: What is behind this growth law, behind this local law? – Little new! I repeat: Little new! It is ultimately a bundle and an inflatation of already known and often mentioned individual measures. It's not a policy mix recognizable, it's not a round thing, but this package, this law runs from front to back! And that is actually the essential point from our point of view. Mr Minister – or both ministers –: What do you think – and I would like all the Members of this House to hear – are the mechanisms of action behind these measures? What do you have here for forecasts, what will grow more in the future in Austria? I didn't make it easy. I have taken out a calculation and have come to the conclusion that, if you calculate everything, without these ASFINAG and without these railway investments, which are not new, we will add € 480 million in 2004 and add € 250 million in 2005. In the best case – I am very generous with a multiplier of 1.5 – this results in an additional growth of 0.3 percentage points for 2004 and 0.15 percentage points for 2005. So that's actually not registrable. What Austria needs is not such a minimum pack, but we need a vitamin boost! We don't need a placebo, we don't need a Mogelpackerl – we don't need that – but we need a proper growth machine! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I observe in the ranks of the government groups, here in this area and also in many detailed discussions that more and more colleagues are no longer satisfied with this course because they know that the Federal Government is on the road to wood in this area. That is why I ask you: Listen to these critical people in your ranks, because Immanuel Kant said: “It’s never too late to become reasonable and wise, but it’s harder at any time when the insight comes late to bring it into motion.” Take care of this saying in your economic policy considerations! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13215	Mr Jakob Auer is now speaking. 4 minutes welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13250	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The oppositionary Moser thought that when the insight comes late, it was difficult to get something positive. [[Call the SPÖ: It's Kant!]] He's right with that quote. But precisely this positive insight of the opposition into a remarkable location law I miss. Ladies and gentlemen! With this growth and location law, which we are debating here today and will also decide on, the successful economic policy course of this country will continue. Your criticism won't help! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We will set positive signs just as with Package I and Package II. Remember your criticism of those earlier packages at the time – even if the decision was then taken by a large majority –: It would be too little, too late, it would be wrong focus. – It was as if there had been nothing else than today: the same words, the same positions. Ladies and gentlemen! With this law in place today, we are investing in the future! This is undisputed, because no one can pass that this increase in research expenditure will bring us to the forefront. This is confirmed by the IHS, the Wifo and many other areas. It is an essential priority that can be seen! This government looks to the future, ladies and gentlemen, and sets the relevant priorities. This is also evident if Austria is to be seen in comparison with other EU countries, with other ruling countries. I know you don't like that, of course, but it's now an essential point that Austria has been the export world champion. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Jacob, I always like to hear you!]] You can see: Here is Austria – and there are many other EU countries behind us. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There you can make such a nice call, you can't pass these facts of success! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is also gratifying that there are priorities for the rural economy, namely biomass: additional € 5 million, broadband technology: 10 million €. These are initiatives that can be seen! It is also important, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: The economic situation is above all a matter of the mood! That's undisputed. On the one hand, we see that we have a large number of unemployed people – that is also undisputed: the figures and the facts could be even better, even though they are excellent in the European and worldwide comparison, but they could be better – only: If you make a comparison between the federal states, read the “Kronen Zeitung ” in today’s “Kronen Zeitung”: “Oberösterreich’s labour market remained stable even in November, reports the AMS.” – Not the government, but the AMS! – “... 4.2 percent: the lowest value of all federal states,...” Even more employees than in November! [[Abg. Sburny: Despite green!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – I welcome the fact that, among these very positive facts and facts of the Wels Land district, from which I come, it appears as the absolute best district. [[Abg. May. Hans Moser: This is a coincidence!]] Assigned: We are lucky to have an excellent infrastructure – Westbahn, West motorway, Pyhrn motorway, the Innkreis motorway – we are perfectly connected. But this is to be said explicitly: There is by far the highest increase, 35.6 percent, in the labour force, in employees over the last ten years. It's real! I do not want to point out the opposite figures in Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: What about Carinthia?]] But above all one, Mr Van der Bellen, I would like to say. Unfortunately, due to the time pressure it was not possible to carry it out even further. One more point, Mr Moser. It is a few months ago, a few weeks ago, that you and many of your colleagues stood here and have scourged the voest-privatization. This is a filleting, a dispersal, a move away from jobs, and so on. Do you know what the newspaper “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” has as a headline today? – “Green light for voest expansion by two billion euros”. That's on track, that's being implemented! This is a success story that you will not be able to prevent. This is a tangible investment, as it has hardly made a business in Austria – ultimately thanks to the framework conditions that have been created.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13383	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13401	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! It is true that Mr Auer says that the criticism of the opposition does not work. The question is only whether it is reasonable if criticism does not work. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Three days ago was first Advent, one could think that the time of hope and expectation has begun. But you gave us a year that was actually full of speech bubbles, vague promises, and ultimately also of deceptions. Of course! We heard: It was all micky, which was done years ago. And: The “millstones” are now only against us as far as research funding is concerned. I'm telling you naked numbers: Between 1999 and 2003, the share of GDP for research and development in Austria increased from 1.86 percentage points to 1.96 percentage points. This represents an increase in GDP percentage points per year of 0.025 percent. In other words, you would have to wait 20 years alone to reach the 2 per cent you wanted in 2003 – not 2.5 per cent. Mr Bartenstein! They quoted the economic promotion institution. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Economic Research Institute!]] – Economic research institute does! – Since Hannes Leo has calculated a reference path to achieve this 2.5 percent and also the estimated development based on the current government measures. That's where we lie – say and write! – in 2006 at 1.98 percent. You can once again award such an order; if he does not contradict, he will tell you the same again. Let's take another fact: Unemployment, which is today in the newspaper, has an disproportionate growth rate of 18 percent among academics. You know that necessary investments at the universities cannot be made, even if Gehrers here imposes a different record with jump and repeatedly claims that this is not the case. In order to improve research funding, we proposed an independent foundation a year ago, but one that has the necessary equity, in order to then disburse really significant amounts of research funding from interest income. However, we have also called for this foundation to be assessed according to international criteria on research projects and technology offensives, and not in this way – and I am now working out this contradiction – as you have presented yourself to the National Foundation. They propose a foundation that does not have sufficient equity. All the experts agree with us, no matter what you might want to say behind me. Second, you sell the expenses for the foundation twice, so before the bear is laid, you're already selling his fur, even twice! And then add funds from the ERP fund. If I hear that America is positive about this, that does not mean that it has been completed and signed. When you built this law, you probably didn't have this message from America yet. That is, there is a difference between someone who is a committed optimist and someone who simply speaks beautiful, deceives or simply refuses reality, here a ballet of promises dances. It's crucial to me how you built this foundation. There is a board of directors with two people. Who ordered this board of directors? – A member of the board will be appointed by the Minister of Finance, one of you, Mr Bartenstein. Let's look at the board of foundations. This consists of seven persons, of whom a potentially independent one, namely the representative of the Austrian National Bank. Four members are ordered and cemented by four ministries – truly sustainable! – a blue-black proporz that has washed himself. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour sends, sends the Ministry of Finance, sends Gehrer and sends Gorbach. And then there are two more people who are not allowed to talk, but only to discuss: These are the head of the Council for Research and Technology Development and its alternate. But look and hear! These two were also ordered by the government. And now you're still in the audience: Who will be allowed to lead this Foundation Council?- Oh, my God! – Only those two members who have in turn been appointed by the Minister of Finance or by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour. There you can imagine where the funds will flow. I have little desire to agree to a law that has some positive pages, but at the end it says that it will buy vacuum cleaners from Siemens – whose representatives also sit in these councils – just because there the technological development can be observed that the press carpets can be sucked better in the board rooms. It can't be. However, your foundation will become completely absurd when it comes to the criteria for disbursement of funding for research and technology development. In fact, it is said that the "use of funding according to the criteria of "taking into account a medium-term Austrian strategy for research and technology development" must be decided. Give me this medium-term strategy! Has it been consulted, decided, discussed in Parliament? - No! There is an initiative of the Council for Research and Technology Development, a paper. But: Is that your paper, is it the paper of Consemüller or of Professor Bonn? - I don't know! These are the criteria for how resources are to be directed! That means, there's a lot wrong. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution in order to be able to put at least one foot in reality: The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Culture is invited to discuss the National Research and Innovation Plan publicly, in order to finally develop sustainable approaches to research promotion in the highest possible consensus and to give it the necessary commitment. Since there is no such obligation, we are critical of this National Foundation, although some points, especially in the area of fiscal measures, could be discussed positively, I am now saying in the conjunctive. I – and with me others – fear that these funds are so chosen that they will help those companies that are already doing positive research and technology development to continue to do so. But the leverage effect to stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises to research that they have not yet carried out – at least at least – will be too little. You can hope for that, but the Advent also has its end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13453	Mr. Dr. Grünewald! Two motions for resolutions were announced by the Greens, one from Sburny, one from Kogler on finance and one from Sburny, one from Green Forest on Fresh Money. I do not yet have the third motion for a resolution. That is why I cannot verify that it is sufficiently supported and that you have also presented it sufficiently. If I get him, I'll check him out. Then I'll let him in. I would, however, ask, Mr Green Forest, soon, because I leave the Bureau in 10 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: It's already on the go!]] The next speaker is Mr Bucher. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13481	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! It is of course clear that the opposition criticizes the growth package. Something else wouldn't have expected anyone here in the high house. But in a serious discussion, I would have been more interested: Criticizing alone is a little too little. One might have expected you to make any proposals, because if that was the proposal, Mr Matznetter, if that was the proposal to prefer your motion for a resolution, namely tax reform, € 4 billion, 1 billion for the economy, 2 billion for income tax and wage tax and 1 billion for research and development without counter-financing, then we will soon have a degree of indebtedness as in the old times of the Social Democratic Finance Ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: April 2002!]] [[Abg. Sburny: There is a proposal for national foundations of the Greens!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Three! Hold it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Stand in the government program! Wrong! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] We don't want that anymore. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Gradwell: Read]] [[think – talk!]] The paradox is only added because, Mr Matznetter, a few months ago you wanted us to know that you want to anchor the zero deficit in the Constitution. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You didn't understand Dr. Gusenbauer again! ...!]] How is that in line with your demands? I really have to ask you about this in the case of a serious consideration of the financial and tax policy in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, however, we are, of course, primarily discussing the challenges and opportunities that the Austrian economy will face in the future in the light of the enlargement of the EU. It is also about making the Austrian economy fit for the challenges of the future, that in the next few years we will give it the crucial framework conditions towards an offensive and successful development of the economy. The Federal Government, I believe, has rightly chosen the right means with this growth offensive to truly provide the economy with success. It is not an argument to constantly go around the figures of the research quota if we are to pursue the clear objective that we want to comply with the Lisbon decision and reach a research rate of 2.6 percent by 2006. This must also be in your interest if 1 billion € are available in addition for research and development. I really don't understand what you have to do about it! If we invest in the right sectors – and you know that free trade alone does not yet make up for growth that is not enough for free trade alone – it will fail. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] We need the right meaningful investment in technology. They come out here and criticize the high unemployment rates, which are certainly also voting. The unemployment rate among academics is relatively high. However, I think it is decent and correct that the Federal Government should put the lever right here and use a lot of resources in the technology offensive so that these highly qualified unemployed can find employment again. This is a good recipe that we can also be proud of, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oillinger: It's right, but it doesn't get hold of it!]] If we see, in the context of economic data, that we have a relatively low inflation rate, that we have a relatively successful export policy, that we can show success in export, that productivity growth is quite significant, and that this has also enabled us to reduce the level of re-indebtedness of businesses, then the very good economic conditions are so that the economy can also develop positively in the future. The growth package, ladies and gentlemen, with the aim of promoting the research and development site of Austria in the order of €1.2 billion, the tax incentive systems, which are unique in Europe with the research premium, with the research allowance, are all important impulses, recovery measures that will make employment in Austria again positive. And all this in sum with the first stage of the tax reform, which is a net relief of €600 million, in which the 13. The abolition of VAT prepayment, where tax exemption of up to €14,500 has been achieved, and we apply only half the tax rate on profits not collected – which, ladies and gentlemen, is a good basis for bringing the economy back to the fore in Austria and providing employment and growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13621	Mr Grünewald has tabled a motion for a resolution. However, it will be assigned to the Committee as an independent request and will not vote today. The next speaker is Mr Gorbach. The clock is set to 12 minutes if desired. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13645	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Colleague State Secretary! Economic growth is far beyond Austria's borders in a problem, the economy is flawed. That is why it is important to first evaluate what economic packages I and II have brought, and second – perhaps even more important – to put in place and react. I think – no, I'm sure! – that the growth package III of this government has again achieved a great deal of good. If I have followed the debate and, in particular, the speeches of the opposition today, I am already very inclined to quote again, this time Wilhelm Busch, who once meant: “He who looks through the eyeglasses sees caterpillars themselves in the Sauerkraut.” – That’s how it happens to me today, what you give for the best. Let us also admit what independent economic researchers have to admit, which was also said by the Wifo in the evaluation of economic packages I and II! The Wifo has clearly taken a very positive assessment and has found that the efforts to invest in infrastructure on the one hand and the policy on research and development on the other on the other, have had a very positive impact on the economic data we currently have to represent. An economic location is defined through tax policy, debt reduction, consistent strengthening of future investment in research and development, as well as education and infrastructure. These are the building blocks. If you look at the priorities of this government, you will see very clearly that we are on the right path when it comes to strengthening and forcing the economic location of Austria, in times when a lot is moving – I remember the debate and decision of this morning – and when we are on the right track and take the right measures. The transport infrastructure is important on the one hand, research and development on the other. There was a debate here about who has done more for research and development. I am now still in charge of the important area of infrastructure. But I will not take part in this debate in this form, but I will simply and simply make a statement which can be proved and comprehensible at any time by means of naked and sober figures, namely the following statement, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: Never in recent years has so much money been spent on research and development, on the one hand, and on infrastructure investment measures, on the other hand, as in times like these by this government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There was 1.4 percent growth in Austria in 2002 to around 0.9 percent in the euro area. That's a good value. 2003 will be about 1 percent; 0.0 per cent to 0.75 per cent of this is due to measures taken by this government, as mentioned earlier, according to Wifo evaluation, this is also black on white on the table. If I compare the data that my colleague Bartenstein has already given me for the best, I have to say: Germany: 0.2% last year, probably 0.0% this year; France: 1.2% last year, 0.5% this year; Euro-zone: 0.9 percent last year, 0.5% this year. In your series too, tax advisers who reflect on figures will have to admit that this government has obviously taken the right action and is doing the right thing again. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In particular, because young people are also present, I should like to mention that the youth employment programme, which we presented in the form of youth employment dialogue a few days ago, is again an important measure in the right direction, because of course there is nothing worse, not only in a material, but also in a psychological way, when young people who are willing to work do not find a job. That is why I believe that the €200 million we target in this area is a good investment in the future, an investment in our youth, an investment that can be seen! Now to the next point, to the F&E quota: What was in the past, ladies and gentlemen, I am already interested, but less than what will be in the future. Our goal of raising the research rate to 2.5 percent by 2006 and 3.0 percent by 2010 is truly not a modest target. We will still achieve it because the €1.2 billion we will spend over the next three years in the field of research and development – you know where they come from, because that has already been discussed today – is a guarantee for this – if you use it properly, with leverage effect, so that even if I may say so, feedback comes from industry. Then we will reach that quota too! We have also shown how the achievement of this quota can be financed. If we were to achieve two thirds of private initiatives, a third of public initiatives, this, as well as international experts, would be the right ratio; at present, the ratio is 58 to 42 percent. Thus, the quota would be reached 3.0 percent of GDP by 2010. Then we would be where we belong, namely among the top 3 international, and there I would like to see Austria in the field of research and development. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The measures such as the 1 000 € per capita apprenticeship premium, the introduction of an education premium of 6 per cent, the increase of the education allowance from 9 to 20 per cent and the tax-advanced pension provision – that is, if you want to, for everyone – were measures from the economic packages I and II of the Federal Government, and they have not remained without satisfactory effects. I call you a number that you may be even more interested in, because there is also a right to discuss unemployment in this regard. The unemployment rate of young people of 7.2 percent is about half as high as the European average, which is about 15 percent. But she's still too high. I am of your opinion when you say that the unemployment rate of around 240 000 or a quarter of a million is far too high. That is why we are putting in place these measures, and that is why we see that jobs are secured, and that is why we are creating the conditions for creating new jobs. In the context of the economic packages I and II of this Federal Government, investment in transport, rail and road infrastructure alone could be created, some 14,000 to 18,000 jobs. Take note of this number too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As far as the research landscape is concerned, Mrs Bleckmann has already said that two important priorities are set by this government. In doing so, structural change – always good and always important – is important, a new research landscape also in the structure to ensure the use of synergies, the prevention of double tracking and the closure of funding gaps. This new structure is being sought in order to reorient the Austrian research landscape, which is right in a fast-growing Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! The broadband initiative is also part of this area. Only 16 percent of households are accessible via broadband, so to speak, with the fast Internet, or can go to the wide world. This is not the result of yesterday and today's policy, but there have been political leaders not as fast as I would have wished. But we have recognized it, and that is why I have given €10 million in special support to rural areas, where the penetration is not so strong, where there is a gap in the broadband possibility of the fast Internet, and that is why, in order to avoid there being two societies in Austria, namely the broadband and the narrowband society, if you like, or the online and offline society. That's how these funds are well arranged. The EU will provide an additional €10 million from the Structural Fund, and the countries will also contribute €10 million, and we will have a rapid support for this broadband initiative, which is particularly important for rural areas, with €30 million in 2004. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying: In the sense of a sustainable growth policy, Austria is committed to the EU's goal of developing Europe as the most dynamic, knowledge-based economic area in the world by 2010 under the Lisbon Strategy. The implementation of these measures is certainly an important step in this respect, but it will create framework conditions that will increase investment in Austria, improve the use of the labour force, increase productivity and improve competitiveness. You know what will be the most beautiful thing about it: that we will not only be at the forefront of R & D in Europe when Europe arrives, but that we will also be where we want to be, according to the Lisbon strategy, namely, the number one economic worldwide. Then we will Austrians say: I would like to welcome you because we will already be there on the basis of our policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13763	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. The clock is set to 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13782	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! In short, to my colleague Bucher, who, if I remember correctly, was in the Financial Committee – I think at least to have seen him there –: He has assembled that there will be no proposals from our side. To that end, I can tell him: He should have been more careful, because our requests, several in number, have been postponed with the votes of the government parties. These applications may well contain funding proposals, as is required – in contrast to the form of your own government paper, where the Court of Auditors has criticized the lack of funding proposals. Therefore: more objectivity, please, in your own ranks, because if you delay our proposals and then say that there are none, then that is more than peculiar! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, the Growth and Location Act is actually another part in an inconsistency piece that the Federal Government presents under the title “growth stimulation”. This is already the third alleged growth package. That is to say, the first two were insufficient, because then we would not need a third. In reality, this law is also far from being a manifesto of a truly structured economic policy. Rather, it is a series of individual measures, and one does not need to be a studied economist in order to realize that the multiplier effects will be relatively small. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lentic.]] I studied it. Ecometry can be studied. This is a subject at the University of Economics. But, well, maybe you didn't know that. So you don't need to be an economist to see that the multiplier effects will be relatively small. My colleague Moser estimated her government-friendly by 0.3 percent, but I think they will be even lower. But anyway, there are more placebos inside. I would also be interested in where the great growth shift is supposed to be with the tollheriffs of the ASFINAG. As regards the promotion of young people for the 2008 European Football Championship, for which we are all, of course, I must say: This is already very ambitious to be packed into a growth and location law. [[Call the SPÖ:Watten!]] Because the lamb is already shining, just a few words to Mr. Vice-Chancellor, who brought a quote from Wilhelm Busch here, in which annoyance and Sauerkraut occur: Please have the sour herb. It itself has been delivered to the Members' subjects, namely the continuation of the Austrian stability programme, because you yourself agree that the economic situation is still very worrying, for example, because you are writing – and this is contrary to what you have claimed ;no, to Austria – that the investments in Austria have been down to now. [[Interim note of Vice-Cancellor Gorbach]] That's what it says in your own paper! Your paper also says that – and that is true – the success of net exports was responsible for the low growth rate we had. On the other hand, the Minister of Finance fears – so publicly expressed – that the euro will be weakened. This does not fit completely with the stimulation of exports. By the way, the Wifo itself called it a paradox. I'd say it's not paradoxical, but this attitude is really scurry. But then it is said that private consumption will stimulate growth in the future. I doubt that. It is also stated in this paper that income from income tax has fallen, but they have been compensated meritably by rising wage tax revenue. The reason why private consumption is to be stimulated is really in the stars! All in all: This growth package – we will nevertheless agree, because it is better than nothing at all – and it is just a little bit – is really a commitment to your own aimlessness in economic policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13836	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. A speaking time of 4 minutes is proposed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13855	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The growth and location law to be adopted today is the consistent continuation of economic-invigorating measures that this government is setting. I like you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, especially you, from the opposition, recall once again the economic-invigorating measures adopted in the first and second economic packages – not least because many of these measures are now and with 1. In January 2004, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. First of all, the tax exemption of the annual income up to €14 000, the apprenticeship premium of €1,000, then the increase of the research allowance or the research premium, and also the continuation of the increase in the investment premium. To Mr Kogler, who said that this increase in the investment premium led the entrepreneur to invest nothing in the year before, but in order to achieve the increase in the investment premium next year, I must say: That is simply incorrect! If one can use this premium in several consecutive years, then this argument does not at all take effect. Ladies and gentlemen! What is very important for our entrepreneurs is the fact that in December the 13. VAT prepayment no longer has to be made, which was a huge liquidity burden for Austrian entrepreneurs. So this government has this 13. VAT prepayment finally abolished! The list of these positive measures can still be added to the education allowance. Of course, all these measures are accompanied by administrative simplifications. The Ministry of Finance has the data exchange – as quickly as no other ministry! – placed on an electronic basis. Since I am a tax advisor in my civil profession, I appreciate this very much, so we still have a huge amount of red tape. This growth package also states that in the future tax returns – and as the first step the income tax declaration – are made by electronic means. Finally, Mr Moser, I would like to take a brief look at your remarks, which were, by the way, diametrically to the speech by Mr Hoscher, who said that the opposition has very well made proposals. To this end, I can say: Yes, but these proposals were indisputable, or – and once again – these ideas were not presented in a serious way, for example, with counter-financing. [[Abg. Silhavy: Then refuse!]] [[Further call of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You say that we need a “growth machinery” – and here, Mr Moser, I give you the right in principle; we decide by the government parties to do so. – But they have remained guilty of our proposals. You, Mr Moser, quoted: When the insight comes late, it becomes more difficult! – I also give you the right to do so, because that was exactly the difficulties that this government had to face! You from SPÖ were never clear enough to agree to a pension reform. They were never clear enough to agree to an ÖBB reform. That is why, Mr Moser, you are right with this statement. – But we from the government are happy to take on this responsibility and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13897	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13916	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My colleagues Kogler and Grünewald have already explained in detail why this so-called growth package does not deserve this name. I would like to take two things out specifically, possibly a third: Especially in the field of the National Foundation, what is available on so-called fresh money, that is, additional money, is very little evidence. The €95 million previously mentioned by the Minister is indeed a maximum. Governor Liebscher also said that this will move in the range between €65 million and €95 million. This means that it can actually be a much smaller amount, which is available there. All experts agree that this initiative will certainly not achieve the goal of a 2.5 percent research quota. The Wifo, which has already been so positively quoted several times – including by the government groups – says that there is a lack of at least €1.3 billion, of which you spend a maximum of € 300 million. In other words, even in the case of high leverage effect, which can be desired once without knowing whether it will take place, this objective is not attainable by the current measures. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] A second area, which seems to us to be important here, is the research grants. In principle, we consider a tax incentive for additional research expenditure to be a useful measure. However, the emphasis lies on the word “additional. ” There's already a sense of looking at how you're actually changing the law. What you are changing is the conditions for the 25 percent research exemption in two ways: On the one hand, the need for the patent and the proof of economic benefit are no longer required, which we consider to be useful, because this is a very arbitrary restriction. But what you do in this change of law is that you definitely delete the exception. In other words, you will allow administrative and distribution costs as well as expenditure on assets of investment assets to be claimed in the future. But this actually means that it is possible that these funds under the title ‘research-free amount’ are actually an investment aid which in no way ensures that additional research is carried out. It is already making sure that the research rate increases, which is in your mind, but it does not necessarily ensure that additional research is carried out, because in the extreme case, it can mean that a large company, which already has large research expenses today, can, in addition to doing building or similar depreciation, receive allowances for it, but no longer researches it. But that cannot be in the mind of the inventor. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We think that is possible, but that is not necessarily said. Much will depend on the regulation that remains to be adopted. It is not available to us, and we can therefore only assume what is currently in the law. I therefore propose a further motion for a resolution in order to be able to review the effects of this exemption. Resolution Deputies Sburny, Mag. Kogler, colleagues on the evaluation of the impact of tax benefits on research and development in two to three years at the latest The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Minister for Finance is invited to carry out an evaluation within two to three years at the latest, in accordance with international standards, of the effects of the changes in tax benefits and their reliability, in order to clarify the extent to which the objective pursued is to be more researched in Austria and to what extent, and to what extent, structurally disadvantaged small and medium-sized enterprises, can benefit from the tax advantages. Since Mr Bartenstein had expressed himself in favour of such evaluations concerning the impact, it could be assumed that perhaps the government groups will also be able to vote in favour of this request. A word about a third area in this already mentioned “crew and beet” law, namely the ASFINAG law. You change the ASFINAG law in this regard, that you say: The ASFINAG shall be authorised to propose to the competent authorities specially trained persons to be entrusted as bodies of road surveillance. - We need additional controls, that's safe. However, if you look at what you are going to do, then you have to say that at the request of the liberals, the time when the law is to come into force, namely, the 1. January 2005, was removed so that, according to the Constitution of this Act, it will enter into force immediately after publication. What this means for the training of persons and how it is supposed to be that these persons are being trained in, let us say, three months in an area that is really difficult for all those who recognize themselves in this area, that is quite clear. In other words, the costs of necessary equipment for the control force are nowhere covered, training and training are greatly reduced, and there are no criteria and quality characteristics provided for. That means, as important as a control offensive is: Without equipment, without a high level of this training, nothing will become of it. On this occasion, they open the door to the privatisation of the police in the high-level street network, and from our point of view this goes far beyond the goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14031	I note that Mrs Sburny's two motions for resolutions have been properly put in place. I would ask Mrs Sburny to come to me briefly. Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14052	Ladies and gentlemen, especially ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! You can criticize everything, and of course you can say that it is all too little. But here I am already on the question raised by Mr Matznetter: Where do the funds come from? Mr Matznetter! The socialist-dominated governments have left no money, but only debt. That is why it is not possible for us to make the repeatedly quoted Deficit Donation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] We can no longer raise public debt, but – quite the contrary! – we must continue the consolidation course, otherwise we would in all cases have the state fiasco in front of us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The vitamin impact that Mr Moser has called for could only be done if we could make Deficit Donation and if reserves were available. But that's all, as I said, not the case. Although this Federal Government continues its consolidation course and has to fight against the economic downturn last year, it has now presented this third economic recovery package. I think you should be positive about that. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, all that socialist Federal Chancellors, Socialist Socialist Ministers and Economic Ministers have not done now pick up this black and blue Federal Government! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That was the most successful policy of a government...!]] We – Mr Matznetter, you do not want to hear it, you just want to represent something negative to people over and over again – an excellent current account. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: When do you ever make something positive?]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There has been no surplus in the current account for ten years now! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Because people can't afford anything anymore!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's a question...!]] We have a good growth; look over the borders! We have low inflation; look back over the borders, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Moser has once again said that we have a record unemployment. – Yes, we have a high level of unemployment, and we do not agree with that either. But five years ago, Mr Matznetter, when the Socialists presented the Minister for Social Affairs to the Minister for Finance, there was an equally high level of unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No! That's not true!]] What happened? – One has tried to fight unemployment together. This is also being done here, ladies and gentlemen. Only then have we welcomed all your measures to combat unemployment, but you do not. They obviously enjoy the fact that people are unemployed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No, we demand measures!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The company's start-ups have never been as high as they are now. This means that optimism is also present among the companies. There were 27 700 business start-ups in 2002. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I have only a very short speaking time, but I would nevertheless like to say that this economic package will work in the medium term and also in the short term. Above all, it will support the economy – it is thanks to God – and thus create jobs again. The past growth packages have led – as evidenced by the Wifo – to a greater economic growth than in other countries. In Germany, on the other hand, there is zero growth, with stagnation in the Federal Republic of Germany. Now I would like to address a few more arguments. Mr Matznetter complained that the money was coming from the National Bank. This is partly correct, but so far the funds have not been secured. Now, on the other hand, the fixed amounts, which for a longer period give a guaranteed amount of education for research. With regard to your constant request, Mr Matznetter and the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I would like to say to you that you should introduce an investment exemption instead of an investment increase premium: In the case of investment-free contribution, you must first have a profit, but not all companies. This is why, in particular, for small businesses, medium-sized enterprises and also for firms which are not so good, it is always better to have the investment premium and not the investment exemption. So we are referring to the admittedly difficult situation of the farms and we want to strengthen the farms. It has always been shown that the small and medium-sized economic structure in Austria in particular has led to job creation. Overall, I believe you should be able to see and admit the positive aspects of this economic package in terms of enlargement of the EU.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14190	Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14209	Mr President. Mr State Secretary – alone on the government bank! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Clubobmann Molterer, maybe you should do a little more coordination work in your club. In fact, while on the one hand Mr Auer said that the SPÖ's proposals, which exist in the Financial Committee and the Budget Committee, would be too comprehensive to be postponed in order to discuss them, Mr Frieser said that they were indisputable. Perhaps you could better coordinate this, so that your ÖVP delegates do not make such contradictory statements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] The Minister of Finance has submitted this growth and location law to the Financial Committee. Hidden in this law is also a change in the law which has actually lost nothing in this committee, namely a change to the Foreign Employment Act. Although Minister Grasser has no idea of the law in his own words, that does not prevent him from bringing it in. He cannot justify this change either, either objectively or at all, because he is not an expert, but this does not prevent the small coalition of ÖVP and FPÖ from consenting to it, although its representatives have not been able to justify it in any way. What's behind that? – It is likely that Grasser has a lot of friends – from Magna or other companies – who come to Austria as part of their board of directors or executives and feel that before they come here for example from Canada, they have to go to the doctor and confirm that they do not have the plague, or that they have to sign that they will learn German in a short time and that if they do not, they will have to pay punishment. They feel that they are terrible, and the Minister of Finance probably has a sense that this is really embarrassing. And it's true, I think that's also embarrassing. But it is not only for the directors of the board of directors, but it is for all those who want to come to Austria to work and live here, it is embarrassing what a procedure they have to go through from the Foreign Law! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But now these are friends, and friends need to be treated especially when they are special friends. That is why a special law, a special provision is made. Now they are special key forces and have very special privileges, namely the best privileges of everyone. In this context, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on European Union. These are 73 different groups of foreigners who are being distinguished by law. All the positive things from these 73 groups, of which the best, are now focused on this group, namely the friends of the Minister of Finance. This leads, for example, to the fact that not only their children are better placed than the children of all other strangers here in Austria, but this also means that these friends are allowed to take their chamber soups, chauffeurs, private secretary et cetera here. These people are here in a particularly strange situation, in a particularly sad situation. I would almost call it a modern slave, because, although they are allowed to work for a service provider here, they can also pay in all social security schemes, for example in unemployment insurance, but they will never get unemployment benefit because, as soon as this service relationship is interrupted, they have to lose their right of residence and leave the country, so that, of course, they do not get any support in the form of unemployment benefit or the like, and also completely regardless of how long they have lived in that country. Whether they've been here for five years, ten years, or more, is totally irrelevant. These people are bound to this one person and otherwise have no chance of coming here. For this reason, we will reject this passage – but not just this – because it is simply a way that is not really being helped. Ask colleagues Auer, what is really the problem: that, according to the current laws, we cannot repeat those people who want to come here, who would need our economy – you, colleague Auer, have mentioned a wonderful example in the Financial Committee. But for these people, we need an improvement here, and not for any people to be able to take chamber soups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14281	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14299	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw your attention to two laws which are being negotiated within the framework of this item on the agenda, namely, the revision of the occupational health insurance law and the pension fund law. [[Abg. Oilman: Jessas after!]] This is a technical change to which we are being stopped by the EU directive on money laundering. These deposits are also subject to banking, so the identity of the depositor is to be determined. This is, of course, done at the pension fund and even more so at the workplace when it comes to occupational health care. Therefore, we have required a further administrative burden by now making it possible to use the data set of the ten-digit social security number for this identification from the main association of social security funds in the course of the collection. – So far, so good at this measure. However, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, like the entire pension scheme and the pension fund system, this is a further proof that the political contrast between the payment procedure, that is, the so-called first pillar, and the second pillar in reality no longer exists at all, but that we have an entire pension system, in which, admittedly, for decades and far too long, the first pillar has been placed only on the first pillar. Now, together, they guarantee age benefits in a functioning system of the Private Public Partnership. [[Abg. Oil: What? How's it going?]] Of course, not only is the first pillar, but also the second and third pillar legal columns are regulated by law: the deposit rate, the deposit, the capital guarantee, the supervision. I am also convinced that it would probably not be possible for a pension fund or an employee pension fund to put over decades the funds entrusted to you into non-profit-making forestry goods, as should have happened in the first pillar in the past and there. This is therefore another step towards building up what the population expects of us: a functioning pension scheme in the multi-column system. [[Abg. Oils: Working?]] I can recommend it for good reason.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14362	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14381	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Tancsits, you really put the slide on me. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Don't slip out! Watch out, don't slip!]] Firstly, by drawing attention to another part of what you call the economic package. [[Abg. May. Tancsits:... be careful in committee!]] Where's the package? – This is a residual exploitation, from the Ausländer employment law to pension funds and employee benefits legislation adaptations. What does that have to do with economic recovery? Can you explain this to me? If someone takes the chamber to Austria, where is the contribution to economic recovery? Can you explain to me, Mr Tancsits, what is the contribution of what you have just explained to economic recovery? [[Abg. May. Tancsits: Mr Oellinger! This is another law that has been negotiated together!]] Wonderfully, this is something that proves once again in the area of pension fund legislation or employee advance law, how sloppy and how bad you have addressed this second pillar. They have all probably received these notices of their pension funds in the last few days. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] There are some Members of this House who fall into the new system and not only live from the old references, and there will be some who have read it. You will have noticed that the letter already begins by stating that the pension fund: ‘In the case of the establishment of a contract, the future expected pension benefits were charged on the assumption of interest rates. These interest rates” – beware, Mr Tancsits! – “However, approved by the Ministry of Finance are fictitious interest rates. However, the actual development of the capital market in recent years has not been able to meet these expectations.” How sad, ladies and gentlemen! [[Interlocutory note by State Secretary Dr. Finz.]] It is possible, Mr State Secretary, that we will not be able to stand within, but those outside who, with their low euro deposits, finance these pension funds cannot stand if there is a difference between the fictitious rate fixing and the real interest rate expectations. I am curious about how Mr Ikrath will try to prove to me here again that in the next few years it will go up anyway. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is why I wonder – I still remain in this letter: Why then, when the assets are transferred to a pension fund now, when they are transferred into a conservative charge, because the policy is because you as government parties Your mission has not become just and you have told the people the untruth about the expected profits, the Minister of Finance is the first to hold his hand, and with a transfer 25 percent of the capital? Can you explain to me why the Minister of Finance must be the one who, if people want to invest more conservativeally, is also the one who cashes? - Point one. Point two: What you have not mentioned, Mr Tancsits, is that with these amendments to the Pension Funds Act, we also facilitate the use of derivative instruments. Easier! To date, however, the Austrian public does not know that derivative instruments are an instrument of the capital market among many but are at high risk. You are responsible for high risks that you cannot control at all and do not want to, except that you limit the portfolio in which you can be charged. But You know as well as I do that not least in 1994 a huge American pension fund entered into this presumption, in derivative instruments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] He came in! We all know that the amounts of capital that are now being accumulated through the pension funds in Austria and are under international pressure will continue to increase in the coming years. All the more difficult it becomes. But only because you do not want to comply with the fictitious interest rate you have promised the people, but in the future, at least almost reach in the future, you go even more than before in derivatives, and that is a fatal mistake, ladies and gentlemen! I emphasize: That's a fatal mistake! On the one hand, tell the people in this letter: You'd best go into conservative charges, put in bonds, that's better! At least you get a low interest rate quite guaranteed! – However, they hardly say that the Minister of Finance is the first one who, if you do, stops his hand and says: Thank you. I'll serve you there. However, if the people stick to their responsibility, then drive them or the pension funds, pension funds and employee pension funds in derivatives. I can still remember that you wanted to exclude exactly that at the beginning of the appointment and the establishment of pension and employee pension funds. It was called: No, we don't! - But now you've reached exactly there. Come on the dog, you say.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14472	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14492	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We all know that we cannot oppose international development in general and can turn it around, but we also know that we can take action at national level to improve the situation, just as it has already happened in the past with economic packages I and II. Nor can there be any question of a fogging action, as it has been said by the Greens, but it is quite clear measures that are being taken here, such as the continuation of the investment increase premium, an extension from 2003 to 2004. Incentives for investment are being created. There is clearly more funding for research. Mr. Vice-Chancellor also said: The target is a research rate of 3 per cent by 2010, with the target being 2.5 per cent in 2006. That will probably be observed, ladies and gentlemen. Small and medium-sized enterprises are supported accordingly and export promotion has also been addressed. The Vice-Chancellor has also mentioned investments in the infrastructure sector, which at the time is increasingly used, of course, also trigger a corresponding impulse for growth strengthening. The opposition – how could it be otherwise – challenges the effect of these measures. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Not we question this, Minister Bartenstein has questioned that!]] For example, the Wifo calculates an increase, an effect of 0.5 to 0.75 percent. Mr Moser has determined 0,3 percent with his calculations, which he has reported here – of course he cannot specify the details here. It should be noted, ladies and gentlemen, that these measures are additional measures to be taken here – additional measures for the first step of the 2004 tax reform. Finally, allow me to say: I am glad that, on the basis of the work done by this Federal Government, we have the opportunity to use the scope for such measures without compromising the stability criteria. Finally – last but not least – another wish: It would certainly be appropriate not to spread displeasure from the speaker's mouth and to do a bad job, but to radiate some optimism. [[Abg. Grad well, that's hard on this government!]] We know that providing confidence is important and that the economy depends on the mood. You should follow our example: At any rate, we strive to express confidence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14556	Mr. Dr. Bauer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14575	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to point out that, of course, a growth and location law and also the economic packages I and II have always been able to reach our agreement, because they have intended a boost to the economy, but I also believe that there is also criticism of the scale and the target. If I look at today's presentation, I can say: We will once again give our approval and we will also be delighted to note that there is a positive signal at the F&E quota, for example. It is undisputed that we must increase it, and I think there is no doubt that we must make efforts in this area either. This also concerns the research release or the extension of the investment increase premium, although we would have liked the investment exemption scheme to be better. These are things that go in the right direction! [[Abg. May. Ikrath: That's it!]] This also refers to infrastructure investment. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must also note that the economic packages I and II have not been so much adopted by the government parties. The economic package I and II had to be adopted only on the grounds of the pressure of the SPÖ and of development. Today we are talking about evaluation and we are proud that three-quarters of the growth is due to these economic packages. I ask why this should not apply to the current economic package in the same way. Therefore, the magnitudes that come to the approach are simply too small, because if you want to force economic activity, then you need some additional expenditure and not just cosmetic exercises. That is what we mean, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister Bartenstein has said that we are moving in this way in terms of growth in about the same way with the other countries and at EU level. I have to say: This is not quite true, because we are always under the EU average in the forecasts, both as regards the autumn forecast of the EU and the OECD, and this hurts us, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, the economic balance sheet is not very encouraging, as other commentators also note that sales continue in Austria, a high tax rate, hardly debureaucratisation, and the highest unemployment rate in the second Republic. This is not a real reform policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14618	Mr Bauer, one second! – I look straight ahead and say: Please don't have phones! I don't even look in a certain direction. - Go on!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14634	It is true that this weak development in the domestic economy is mainly due to the decline in mass income. Therefore, the SPÖ's claim for tax relief is a legitimate one. I'm just counting here: In 2001, mass income fell by 2.4 per cent, 2002 by 2.7 per cent, and this year, mass income will fall by 2.8 per cent, and for 2004, mass income will be forecast to decrease by 2.9 per cent. This is the reason why the domestic economy does not jump as it should jump. If an economic package were to become effective, we would need 1.35%. In fact, this package, according to the government's own data, accounts for only 0.25%. That means, in fact, this is a too small package for a revitalization. This is our criticism, and it is, as I believe, a very legitimate one, especially in view of the tense situation on the labour market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to add a sentence here, ladies and gentlemen, because the debt is always mentioned – it is a record that already has jumps – and make a clarification: We had a debt of € 142 billion in 2001, a debt of € 146 billion in 2002. [[Abg. May. Molterer: How much percent of GDP is that?]] That is 67.5% and 67.6% of GDP, and that is the calculation of the Court of Auditors. I mean, For a remaining period of 5,5 years, it is not always possible to resort to far-reaching years, where the single government ended in 1983. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14693	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14711	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Today, with the EU enlargement decision, we have experienced a truly historic hour. It is certainly great to be parliamentarian at such a moment. The EU enlargement involves enormous opportunities for the Austrian economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, great hopes, but also, of course, certain concerns. For example, today’s “Kurier”: “Bangs ahead of EU enlargement. Small farms often still skeptical.” – There are businesses of less than 20 employees in the border regions, which are particularly concerned. This is precisely where, among other things, the government's growth package is now starting and promoting this group of companies by supporting massive and very targeted implementation of modernisation and expansion investments as well as business start-ups and expansions. [[Abg. May. Kogler: A worry package!]] These measures also provide the opportunity to secure jobs and create additional jobs in these sensitive regions. How do we do that? – This package includes the “Fit for EU Enlargement” programme with a concentration and pooling of support measures, such as about €150 million of interest-effective loans from the ERP Fund. Very concrete, very clear. Mr Kogler always thinks that something is being fogged, but in this case this is just too sunny. The AWS liability frameworks are also made available. In addition, € 15 million as a grant for credit financing with an excellent lever, as you know from practice, when you have to do with it professionally, and in addition € 10 million from EU funds are reserved. This bundle is very cleverly tied, it is also very effective, and together with the planned value-added portfolio, the risk capital for SMEs, and the double equity guarantee fund of the AWS, there are exactly the impulses that encourage companies to benefit from their opportunities in the enlarged Europe. In this way, the government once again proves that it is able to create appropriate framework conditions – in contrast to the previous SPÖ-responsible governments. It thus gives our skilled companies the encouragement and assistance needed to ensure that they understand the opportunities of enlargement as much as they have previously used the opportunities in their regions.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14749	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14767	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! My contribution to this, as my colleague Kogler has already said, will be the treatment of Articles 4 and 7, or parts of it. Article 4, the amendment of the Federal Finance Act, deals, among other things, with the breakdown of development cooperation, the implementation organisation from the foreign office to the Austrian Development Agency. That's going to be formal with 1. We're told that they've happened to us. Unfortunately, there is no parliamentary debate on how the preparations actually stand, because the foreign minister unfortunately has no time to debate this with us. But as far as finance is concerned, the submission of this Federal Finance Act is now confirmed again and again, which has been said by the green side in the disbursements again and again that parliamentary control over the budget is restricted. Things that have so far been included in the law – that is, which areas are promoted in detail – will be excluded from our control from 2004. This is also one of the criticisms in this breakdown. For example, I heard from my colleague, Moser, that it was similar with the food agency. All these agencies are deprived of parliamentary control, for example as regards the budget. We don't have an overview anymore. This is a criticism which I would like to raise here because it is likely that this will be decided by you. A second point: Especially in the area of development cooperation, it was not that we had been satisfied so far. Not only of us Greens, but also of various NGOs and in the Foreign Ministry itself, there were votes that said, in fact, one should be able to sum up the budget in which ministry what is being done in development cooperation. It is not the case that it is located only in the foreign office. There is food aid in the Ministry of Life, there is disaster aid in the Federal Chancellery, there are the international financial institutions in the Ministry of Finance. They're your own budget posts everywhere. Nowhere – not to Parliament – is there an overall overview where you could see: What's the total volume? What are the total expenditure? With this law, what we see is getting even less. Instead of going here and saying – even in the course of this exclusion, if it should already be –: At least once, we are summarizing all the areas of all these ministries, and we are doing what is always required in the EU, namely a coherent development policy, not because a little and there a little bit, but together!, control of a large part of the EZA budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be deprived of Parliament. We will only be more – hopefully! – can learn about the Court of Auditors and about the reports that the management of the ADA is likely to present to us. But in the sense of how it would be necessary for such budget items, that Parliament also has control, there is no longer. . So this is one of the reasons why we will not vote in favour of this block of law, which is here for the debate and then for the vote. Further point: Let me come to Article 7. What this has to do with the economic recovery, I also wonder, namely, the paragraph and point of the Foreign Employment Act, that spouses – spouses too, not only spouses, as it stands here in the law – and foreign servants of so-called key workers will also have the opportunity to be employed out of the quota. [[Abg. Bucher: This is already the case with diplomats!]] Yes, Mr. Bucher, you mean: Yeah, yeah, that's what it's supposed to be! The problem with foreign staff is that they depend entirely on the key force, on the employer. It is not true that, for example, if they no longer agree with this employer, they can cancel and look for a different job in the labour market. I can't! They also lose their residence and work permit in Austria with the loss of this job, and this, I say now with this drastic expression, leads to slave-like slave-like relationships, because many of these domestics are women. I don't think that can't be. These persons are still paying for unemployment insurance, but if they want to leave this job if they are no longer satisfied, they can't go away and get the unemployment benefit. They lose the residence permit, they have to leave Austria. We believe that this can be even constitutionally problematic. We have concerns in this respect and would like to know from the government whether this has been reviewed. Maybe you'll give us some information about this. However, I am afraid that you have not checked whether this scheme is unconstitutional, namely the rule that people who work in Austria and pay into unemployment insurance cannot obtain unemployment benefit if they lose their job because they have to leave the country immediately after losing their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14806	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14824	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Growth, productivity development and per capita income are largely determined by investment in research and technology. Research and development can, as it were, be seen as an engine for the economy. In recent times, Austria has invested massively and will continue to put in place effective measures in the future. At present, we have a research and development rate of about 2 per cent, which is on the European average. With regard to the enlargement of the European Union and also to the objective we want to achieve in 2006, i.e. an F&E quota of 2.5 percent, great efforts and improvements are necessary. I therefore particularly welcome the government's action, namely that by 2006 special funds of over €600 million will be made available for research and development, and the establishment of the National Foundation, which is a sustainable – I emphasize: sustainable! – Funding research initiatives. In other words, for domestic research, financial resources of more than EUR 1 billion are available by the year 2006. This is an amount for research and development, which one would not really have dared to dream of in the research landscape under a SPÖ government. In Austria, an innovative location will continue to be available for small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of research and development. Straight through tax incentive systems will surely intensify research and thus create new impulses in this area. Not only are funding and incentive systems important, but it is also necessary to reform the overall system of the Austrian research organisation and research funding, which is under way in all the near future, which in turn focuses on the small and medium-sized economic structure in Austria in particular. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The increased funding, tax incentives and reform in the field of research funding testifies to a dynamic research policy of this black and blue government, which will guarantee and secure the Austrian site in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14875	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Finz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14894	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs Lunacek, you have complained about the lack of transparency in distributed areas, in particular that there are no conclusions. All accounts of distributed areas are part of the federal accounts. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: But not in detail!]] So you see there how the federal birth has completed, and also for the distributed areas you see a balance of assets and a profit-loss account. In addition, annual reports are delivered in each distributed area. There is a financial and a technical controller, so that this transparency, the lack of which you have complained today, is quite certain. But I'd like to show you that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14922	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14941	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! It has been mentioned several times today: Mr Kogler referred to it as the “crout and beet law”, I think it is the continuation of an unkind of this federal government to introduce collective laws or collective law, where the novels actually have nothing to do with each other, and therefore the whole is also a little difficult from the treatment. Therefore, there will also be a different voting behaviour in separate votes. The previous speakers of the government group were full of praise for the previous laws, for the I economic package and the II economic package. Mrs Frieser, for example, praised the apprenticeship premiums in the highest tones. Alone, colleague Bucher, alone, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, if you were to mutter me in the back if it was really as good as you or... [[Interim note of Vice-Cancellor Gorbach]] [[Deputy Chancellor Gorbach: I just want to report to you!]] You don't need to admit, I'm still able to read myself and make a judgment myself. – If, for example, you or the Federal Minister Bartenstein are trying to present this in the most beautiful and dazzling colors, then I understand that, but it goes far... – My tie pleases you? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Schillering like your tie!]] This is the Schüssian animal welfare tie, Federal Minister. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Vice Chancellor Gorbach: I especially like your jacket!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I would recommend, Minister of State: Look at reality! If the economic packages I and II have really worked so well, why do we have to accommodate 5,000 apprentices who still have no apprenticeship? If you were really so close to the economy as an economic minister, they would have long recognized that it is a bit too late to decide in December something that should have been decided already in spring or at least in the summer of this year so that it can work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is, of course, understandable that you are praising your work, because every collar praises its goods, that is to say at my home – Mr Scheuch gives me the right – only for a federal government that is in favour of this state, that is a little bit. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's right! We're not a collar!]] If, on the one hand, one goes and creates slave market-like conditions as provided for in Article 7, and on the other hand wants to speak of economic-invigorating things that are not happening in reality and are not implemented, then this is in reality a testimonie to poverty. [[Abg. Bucher: This is proven!]] Mr Bucher, it does not help if you want to speak nicely, because the facts will not change, not even with shawls and incense boilers. [[Abg. Bucher: That's what Wifo says! That's not ours!]] The fact is: Although this Federal Government has decided on two economic packages, they have not taken hold of them, now it is a third one. But you still have too little courage to knock instead. That would be necessary!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15071	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15089	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! Allow me first to make a request from Members, Mr Stummvoll, Mr Principal and Mr Colleagues concerning a federal law amending the 1994 VAT Act, as amended by the report and request of the Financial Committee. At second reading, the National Council wants to decide that there should be changes in the calculation of VAT in the transfer of operating expenditure into private use, in particular to convert the calculation period in the transfer of own consumption to ten years. It is also a matter of retention and transitional provisions. The proposal has been properly put in place, I hope, and it will also be distributed because it is relatively complicated.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15110	Mr. Col., I haven't got him yet. I can't judge that yet. But we will surely meet your wish.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15137	I would also like to comment on the following point: Today we decide a position with €5 million. This is not a very large number of posts, but it will be a growth machine is set in motion. In the field of renewable energy sources, in the use of biomass from the rural development programme, we want to encourage the establishment of special furnaces. With this investment, with this sum of €5 million from the Federal budget, we are moving funds from the EU, which in total will mean a funding volume of €16 million and will generate an investment volume of €70 million. This is very well done for a number of reasons: We create demand for high-quality services in the construction of plants, we create sustainable demand for fuel from biomass, we create permanent work in Austria in the supply of these plants with biomass, above all we are approaching the Kyoto targets because we avoid the unnecessary emissions of greenhouse gases, especially from CO2. We know that fossil energy sources bear the main responsibility for global warming and are particularly due to the increasing climate. For example, if, in the last three days, 300 liters of rain per square meter have fallen in southern France, this is a disaster. We had a disaster in the summer, and we had disasters last year. We know that the climate has gone out of the joints and that we must act. We will also have to act on transport in the future, and I think that it is a good strategy to turn the sun into our partner and use bioenergy where it is possible to do the same in space heating as in transport, which would certainly also allow us to create many jobs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15179	The request, by Mr Ing. Schools have provided sufficient support. On the basis of its size, it is duplicated and is then included in the negotiations. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15269	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15297	Mr President, I should like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Don't you guess the others?]] The foamed euphoria of my colleague, Schules, was entitled, and I think you have a critical and realistic access to what this Federal Government economic package III calls. There's already a lot of names for this today. I kindly call it a collection of punctual measures, which does not really mean sustainable growth. You have spoken of a machine, Mr Schultes, I think it would be a working engine with the appropriate energy supply to make a little progress on this issue. Second point: It has, of course, been denied a great opportunity. Firstly, the government has not shown a willingness to negotiate and has not responded to proposals and concepts of opposition and other wise people in Austria. That's the first point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] Mr. Bucher, all right, then I'll do the grin about Carinthia, if you'll always appeal to me: It is also a great opportunity for many federal states, especially the federal state from which we come. [[Abg. Bookbooker: labour market! Employment plus 2.6 percent!]] It has been denied an opportunity because, for example, Mr Bucher, in the Carinthian Landtag, a package of measures by the country of Carinthia “Requirements to the Federation” was unanimously decided, with the votes of all three parties. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: We're holding together in Carinthia!]] Yeah, we're holding together and doing nothing out there. I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. – Very No euro for Klagenfurt Airport, no euro for the Border Land Fund, no euro for the protection of local transport, no euro for kindergarten billions, which Carinthia also calls for, the FPÖ, no euro for the increase of the executive, no euro for the solution of the transit problem in Carinthia. I can cut this short: No euro for the Carinthian Landtag on 6. In February 2002, Kärnten submitted a unanimously agreed demand package to the Federal Government. [[Abg. Wittauer: Demanding alone is not enough!]] However, we get €1.6 million for the sea stage – and that's why I'm talking about punctual, arbitrary G’Schlatterln. I will not stop colleagues from the other Länder. You know, this is Loch Ness. Millions have sunk at the foothills of the Wörthersee, because Mr. Landeshuptmann wanted to make this his renommier project. The Minister of Finance said: I can't help it, Morak has applied for it! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: And the Ambrozy was at the opening ceremony!]] This is not economic promotion, it is not sustainability, nor the job security that we introduce to Carinthia and also to the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: But the Ambrozy was at the opening ceremony!]] The most strange thing is: This business package engine contains half a page of expenditure savings. Do you know what has been saved in the art field? –1,58 million € were saved so that we can bring 1.6 million € to the hole-ness million tax reduction to the foothills of the Wörthersee. No job creation was created through it, no entrepreneur can live on it. It's not an engine, it's not an input for the economy. I'm sorry. The SPÖ Group will continue to be a lobby for Carinthia, bringing in all these applications in the form of motions for resolutions. I'm building on your support!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15412	The next item is Mrs Edeltraud Lentsch. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15440	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Wide-ranging calls between the SPÖ and the liberals.]] Tell her to be quiet! – The current growth and location law is the third major action plan of this Federal Government. First, the budget deficit was slowed down, and that in a very difficult environment, as we all know – you only need to look at Germany – and yet, in the previous year, there was a zero deficit in Austria de facto. After that, we changed the financial policy. The first and second stages of the tax reform will bring many reliefs for people with low incomes as well as for SMEs. By 2010 we want to be among the 40 percent mark at the tax rate. Now there is the third economic package for more growth and new jobs. It will be easier to become independent, and there will be a strong boost towards research. In addition, we will also reduce taxes, so far as it is worth taking risks again, because this is the final point, ladies and gentlemen. However, our action plan also means a boost towards social policy, because the package also includes an offensive for care professions. There will be an education programme for young people and older people, and the apprentices will be supported in addition. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The prerequisite for all this is and was a balanced budget, a balanced budget, otherwise we would have to take away more people tomorrow than we give them today. That is why it is good that we act cautiously, so it is good that we have divided the tax reform into two stages, and that is why it is good that we reduce taxes only when we can afford it, because if we do so differently, then it does not work out well. Just think of the financial policy of Kreisky, just think of the apprentice offensive of climate, just think of the ÖBB! – there was one disaster after another, and always when one meant that the rules of the economy do not apply to politics. Therefore, there is no alternative to our Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, finally see this, let the polemise and put your party policy behind the welfare and interest of our country! Their calls are necessary like snow in August. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15494	The list of speakers has now changed a bit by a few deletions. Next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15512	Mr President. Minister! We deal here with the growth and location law. When Mrs Lentsch mentioned earlier that the way of the Federal Chancellor Schüssel was very essential and important for all Members of the Government to go along with this path, I think the picture has come that the lemmings are always going the same way, and then they fall into ruin. I have to say: This growth and location package comes a little late, we already write December. Unemployment in our country is at a high level, which is very dangerous for those people who can no longer maintain their standard of living. ==References====External links== December, which is the day of people with disabilities, I would also like to point out that the number of people with disabilities has returned to more than 30 000 and that the economy in terms of the protection of termination is again making progress towards limiting the protection of termination for disabled people. Again and again this stereotype prejudice is passed on to the fact that disabled people are unannounceable. The exact opposite is the case. There are a lot of negotiations and discussions at a Commission, which will also include terminations of people with disabilities. There are a large number of incentives for workers who are disabled, but also for employers and employers, so that they can recruit disabled people. In this respect, very little happens on the part of the government. On the contrary: The old-backed hats are reversed, and it is not considered which policy can lead to disabled people getting into work much more. It is true that disabled or healthly impaired people are 51 percent employed, while the others who are not affected are 72 percent employed. There too, the government would be called upon to take initiatives and to take effective action.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15552	The next speaker is Mrs Marek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15570	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! The current situation in the field of security calls for additional measures and resources, including the fight against crime. That is why I should like to make one amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues, and to briefly explain its key points. I request the President to submit the request within the meaning of § 53 para. 4 to reproduce and distribute GOG. The main points of the application are: A change to the Federal Finance Act 2003 in the area of law enforcement, an editorial adaptation to the Federal Finance Act 2003. Furthermore, it will make provision to be able to effectively address the rising crime and the current terrorist threat picture. I'm trying to get the request to negotiate.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15606	The application is duly filed, will be duplicated and distributed. He is at the negotiating stage, and after that he will be voting on it. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15830	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15848	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am sorry, Mr Auer, for one of his comments has to be replicated: He meant that just because the Voest was ruined, she was now able to invest 2 billion. – Wrong, Mr Auer! This investment programme was decided in 1998, up to a time series. I hope the Voest is always so good that it can happen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the points that are now before the debate, on economic growth, economic recovery or whatever you want to call this: First comment: The largest investors in Austria are the municipalities. If you, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank or the government – ladies and gentlemen of the government – allow the communities to spend the necessary budget, then they will be able to make all the investments that they have been putting up for a long time! Then you will have a real economic recovery, then you will also have an economic recovery of small and medium-sized enterprises, because investments by the municipalities usually go directly to such enterprises. This will ensure that the jobs will be secure, and people in our communities will feel comfortable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Point two: In the 2003 Budget Overrun Act, I found a very worrying item, namely savings in the costs for the Mauthausen concentration camp memorial at €652,000. The Minister of Finance has explained to me that this is about retransformation. So do you change layers so that you can save more easily under a less striking title? – Unfortunately, I have this suspicion, because in the 2002 budget account for this item, equal to €1 250 000 were saved. Since today's story has been conjured: I am of the opinion that this also means that commemorative sites of this kind will be preserved decently and properly, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Point three: I have made an epochal discovery as to economic recovery, namely the discovery that under growth and location assurance you also understand a “federal law on the temporary objective immunity of loans to exhibitions of the federal museums”. Apart from the fact that I do not believe that this is a particularly massive way of life for the economy, I wonder what this law is really supposed to do. We in the Committee have said that we agree if we get some answers. The first question was: How does this look within the European Union? – We were told: Well, Germany probably has something like that! – For information, this is very pathetic! We have thought further about this and have come to the realization that at this point the culture should be reported and that justice should also be questioned on this point, because what do we do, ladies and gentlemen, if we are offered objects of art – that is what you demand to immunize – and then that the art items which have come into the possession of the lenders through criminal acts into a few stations, through Hehlei et cetera? Think of the icons that are criminally escaped in Russia and then suddenly reappear! Think of the art treasures that are missing in Baghdad – we have all read in the newspaper – or think about what we do if the Saliera would be offered for an exhibition! Would we also immunize them to return them? I think there is still some need to think about how this should really be handled. That is why we would like to refer back to finance, culture and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15921	The next speaker is Mr Ferdinand Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15943	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! The current legislative texts in the Growth and Location Act 2003 have produced a number of promotions, as my previous speakers have already mentioned many things. Let me say a few words about the change in the company pension law and the pension fund law in this package of agenda items. As you know, it is true that the Banking Act provides for the identification of customers, in accordance with the relevant EU directives, in order to prevent the misuse of the financial system on money laundering, which has naturally led to some problems in practice. By this law, the In fact, a more practical arrangement is made. The identification shall be carried out in the future by the data sets provided by the main social security bodies. In addition, the allocation of profits should also take into account sub-annual payments. There has also been a corresponding discussion in the Committee. What was interesting to me was, of course, Mr Matznetter's suggestion that one should be afraid that some errors might occur in these data sets. Then he came up with the “fine” idea that identification should be carried out by the employer, which would result in an increase in bureaucracy, a greater effort. But it all seems to be no matter, essentially, you have more control and bureaucracy again. We're talking about it! We believe that the present proposal provides for a more practical, simpler, cheaper and more efficient procedure. That is why we want to support this law. We do not believe that we need more bureaucracy and that businessmen should be even more burdened, but rather that we should go a more efficient and easier way. That is why I am glad that this proposal has come and we are happy to support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15988	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16006	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! At this item on the agenda, four government documents are to be discussed. I should like to make a few important points in the near future. Finally, an institution will be re-established where research and development will be reorganised. I mean, it's a very important thing that a national foundation is created, and I would like to say: It's high time! What's this about? . On the one hand, the research release is increased and on the other hand, the increase in the investment premium is extended, all the measures, ladies and gentlemen, who are very valued and are going in the right direction, all the measures that have been done, but these are, as we see today, too far away; this has to be said quite openly and honestly here. Austria's research rate remains in the last third of the European Union – despite these measures! This is our critical point: There is still too little new funding available for research and development, even though a colleague has previously stressed that around €125 million will be available in this National Fund. – In fact, it is €50 million to add new ones. And that is not enough to resolve this in the European comparison. Let us take a look at how the other European countries, with their innovation potential, feel. How high is the research rate in Finland, for example? – In Finland, this is more than 3%! And how high is this quota in Sweden? – Also more than 3 percent! In Germany, it is around 3 per cent; in France it is also 3 per cent. – In Austria, on the other hand, this quota is below 2%, and that is clearly too little, although I must say that it is a first correct step in the right direction, and that is why we will also contribute to this part of the government proposal. On the other hand, there will not be an agreement from the SPÖ to amend the Foreign Employment Act. This is a change in key workers. We, ladies and gentlemen, reject this so-called housemaid and private secretarial arrangement. This is not the way one should go, for this path is not modern, this regulation is unfair – and this regulation also contradicts any sense of justice. We will therefore reject this part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16067	Next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16085	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! With the Growth and Location Act, this Federal Government takes another initiative to promote economic growth and location security. In 2001, a budget surplus of 0.3 percent of gross domestic product has been achieved for the first time for decades; in 2002 – despite persistently difficult economic situation – a budget deficit of almost zero. In the coming years, it will become increasingly important to strengthen the equity of companies. This will be very important, especially with regard to Basel II, which will only enter into force in 2007, but which will already be applied by the banks in practice in a milder form. As a result of the first stage of the tax reform already decided, the tax relief of non-profit-making profits for individual entrepreneurs and individual companies has taken an important step in this direction. But this alone will of course not encourage or move an entrepreneur to invest, however: With the introduction of the investment growth premium from 2002 onwards, this is very much ensured. Even those companies which were previously excluded from an investment exemption because they had suffered a loss in the year in which they were charged will now be given a tax incentive with the increase in the investment premium. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] It must be borne in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that new founders are able to achieve the full 10 percent of the favoured investments due to the lack of comparison of previous periods; this extension by another year is also to be welcomed. After all, about 15 000 new entrants were recorded in the first half of this year. Therefore, for various reasons, the amount of investment that the opposition has always praised is not suitable for investment particularly in the event of loss – and sometimes also for certain sectors, such as the computer industry, has not been beneficial, as it has been widely separated in terms of length of use and retention. Moreover, much has been achieved in the previous business packages I and II for the improvement of the liquidity of enterprises in loss years: The choice between an allowance and a premium in the field of education, apprenticeship training or research alone is an essential step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16152	I would like to point out that the amendment tabled by Mrs Marek, who was tabled by Mrs Marek in the past and explained in his main comments, still contains two large additions A and B, which are elements of this request, have also been duplicated and are thus under negotiation. . We hope that this will be done in time for the vote. Next word: Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16174	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The current Act on Growth and Location has today been made by representatives of the government parties as follows: This is a story of success, a shift towards social policy, as well as: The budget deficit is almost zero. To this end, I would like to quote from an OECD statistics that states that Austria remains in the EU average in terms of economic growth. [[Abg. Lens: Go, go, go! ... ask the Kramer!]] And in this study you can also read: More and more unemployed people in Austria; ==References====External links== And to the public investment: Austria is finally in the European Union! Similarly, in this study, one can read that real wages are falling in Austria. [[Abg. Lentsch: These are dream dreams!]] – These are not dreams, but the EU Commission says this, Mrs Colleague; you should read that! [[New call of the abg. Lentic.]] And something else from this study: Austria does not pay out EU structural funds. We do not draw up the structural funds: In 2002, only 60.31 per cent of the funds allocated went into the offensive, so to speak, and almost 40 per cent would still be available; that is, they will expire at the end of the year. However, we Socialists agree with this because we believe that research and development is necessary – and above all because financial means for reducing youth unemployment are provided for in this context. However, ladies and gentlemen of the government, if you say that this is a boost towards social policy, but unemployment among over 50 years of age is rising. It is not possible to speak of a positive boost towards social policy! Do you know what that is? – This is cynicism if, according to this government, 4,000 people in the public service can retire, so to speak, while at the birth of 1944, men’s retirement age is increased by surprise to 62 years and three months and the labour market for these people is almost zero. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lentic.]] Mrs Colleague, that is not a boost towards social policy, but that is white cynicism! That something needs to be changed is fixed, but please do not be so overwhelmed! Where are the companies that love 50-year-olds? Why do the unemployment rate rise in this age group?- Oh, my God! – Because these people cannot find a job! The fact that the fight against illegal and black workers is finally started is nowhere inside. There is also a lack of clear relief for small and medium-sized incomes. Such a one would be necessary immediately – and not only as you try to tell us in the years 2005/2006. That's what we need right now! [[Abg. Lentsch: This is for 1.1.2004...! ... read it!]] In addition, we need changed pension access conditions for older workers, because no one understands if the neighbor has to retire at 55 years of age and the construction worker has to work up to 62 years and 3 months.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16271	The next speaker is Mrs Felzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16289	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Austria is a country of smart and creative minds. We have proved this time and again in the past and also in the present. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Only the government does not!]] The Austrians are so to speak, and have top positions worldwide in the economy and especially in research and development. Of course, we also need to look in the enlarged Europe at how we can keep an USP for our Austria in the future. We need to consider where we as a country, which does not have extensive land resources and has no large industry and is not a low-cost country, can put our USP. As I have already mentioned, we have wise, creative and highly trained people here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am convinced that with the decision to rely on research and development – and the amount that is invested, this “fresh money” worth €1.3 billion, is truly not a small sum! – put a little more than just an accent. This strategy now offers SMEs a whole new opportunity to get credit, because the amount of credit has been reduced and thus becomes interesting for SMEs. Of course, I would rather be today than tomorrow for our 2.5 percent of GDP, much quoted, but at the same time we know that we still have some debt to cover before we can really go into further large-scale investment. We know that with this procedure we really are putting out a new flag. This government has set itself ever-increasing targets, and we have achieved them gradually. I am convinced that, in the framework of the forthcoming tax reform, we will also be “strengthening strengths” with this strategy. I assume that, in addition to research, we can also support those creatives whose act of creation is reflected in design, architecture, films, multimedia and art. We have been confirmed by the first Austrian creative report to demonstrate their large share of their contribution to value creation. This takes some statements from the wind from the sails! In these sectors, a lot is really moving. We are sure that the competition will be won from tomorrow in the field of creativity, and say that only those who sow properly will reap so extensively.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16330	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16348	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Today, on the morning on the issue of EU enlargement, we have really experienced a historic debate. However, we are now again experiencing a debate in the old water of this federal government. In this context, ‘crew and beet’ is a good formulation, and the whole is reinforced by additional amendments by individual colleagues from the government groups: Everyone can wish for something today, and a few million more euros can be achieved by means of amendments. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus a little on the great performance of this Federal Government in the field of research and development. – I believe that if you want to represent growth potentials in research and development at a stagnation level, you can show relatively small growth rates with minor increases. I just think this 1.4% GDP growth will be a real problem next year. The unemployment rate will continue to rise, it will grow more than 300 000, probably about 350,000, because it simply does not suffice to allow 1.4 percent growth in this economy. It is really almost embarrassing and ambitious again when this Federal Government makes the comparison with the Federal Republic of Germany and says that the situation there is much worse. We all know that the tax rate is lower in the Federal Republic of Germany and that if this Federal Government had to work with the German tax rate, the debt in Austria would amount to 5 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am not yet talking about the fact that Austria-Hungary did not have to be involved and that Hungary could go its way alone into the EU, unlike the German situation with the former GDR. In principle, however, a speed-kills project is also running here. We know that there is no legal basis yet to use the ERP funds for R&D purposes. Nevertheless, this law is being passed today and is thus a law that may, like so many other laws you have implemented in recent years here at Hudrivudri's time, also need repair soon. Ladies and gentlemen! There will be no improvement in the quality of this law, and I note in government policy some sceptical traits in this regard. I think the Austrians have slow enough real enough! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16399	Mr Glaser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16418	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At the end of this debate on the Growth and Location Act, I would like to try again to make the bow to today's first decision, namely the decision to agree to the accession of ten other countries to the European Union. I believe that the accession of these ten countries is at least equal or more likely to have a share in improving the location and growth of the Austrian economy than in many other aid granted by the government and by other bodies. I believe that this was, in principle, the central factor of our country's economic development in recent years and will also be in the coming years. Today, it has also been said that the decision on enlargement is in principle an hour of birth for a forward-looking development. Personally, I believe that one could also say that it is the provisional end of a positive development that started with the opening of the east 14 years ago. I believe that the reduction of borders and barriers is essential to economic development. However, it is also necessary that we prepare the people in the border area accordingly for this enlargement. I believe that many individual factors are included in this growth package in particular, that we can prepare the population accordingly for enlargement. If, for example, we also note with this growth package that there will be massive investments in infrastructure, road and rail development, as well as the expansion of broadband Internet, if we note that there will be aid for small and medium-sized enterprises in the border area, then, as I believe, those conditions that we need for the population of this area will be created so that people, individuals and businesses can benefit accordingly from the opportunities arising from this expansion. I am glad that there is this further growth package of the Federal Government, and I believe that it will be used accordingly and will help to create economic momentum in the more vulnerable border areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16457	Mrs Oellinger has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16475	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Not enough for us to be served today, instead of a business package, a grass-gross, i.e. a potpourri made of various, hardly usable or left over ingredients. Now the Grasser-Gröstl is made also a grass, trams and Bohemian-Gröstl! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much for your support. Mr Bucher! The fact that what you have heard under the heading “amendment” should have something to do with the economic package is to believe that You don't think you're yourself! The fact that you dare to present us with such an amendment in the last minute is already incredibly ungustical from the point of view of the process! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is really unbearable that you give us this economic package – say: Grasser-Gröstl – then also Present your failures in the form of an amendment! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] If you write that the increasing development of crime makes it necessary, then you permanently contradict yourself or in this case you object to what you said on the occasion of the security debate. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But not enough with it! Ungustious is also the content: They call for more funds for noise attack and grid arrest and more resources for the overcrowded judicial guards. – Please feel better and come to another item on the agenda, but do not like that under the theme of Grasser-Gröstl or business package! This proposal is really the last one!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16536	Ladies and gentlemen! For the time being, I have no speech but one from Mr Van der Bellen for business treatment. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16554	Mr President. The vote on agenda item 5, growth and location law is not easy, and a Croquis is not yet available. I would ask the Directorate to give it the time to complete this, and to interrupt the meeting until then.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16578	Mr. Klubobmann! I would suggest the following: It is true that a amendment has been tabled by Mrs Christine Marek, who contains extensive supplements. The wish has been expressed, according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. I have fulfilled this wish. This reproduction would have to be over soon. It is also true that the Croquis is not yet available or that it is now being distributed, but the clubs have not yet had the opportunity to study it. I would ask the clubmen to come to me for a moment, because I can imagine that we are going to put the vote at a different time tomorrow morning or at least at a time when, without debate, the vote will simply take place, so that at least every clubman and every Member of Parliament will be able to study the Croquis and this 20-page amendment. In this sense, I am briefly interrupting the meeting and ask the clubmen and President Khol to come to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16619	I now note that there are no more words. That is why I am closing the debate. In the sense of the previous statement, however, we will not vote by agreement now, but will give all speakers and club chairmen the opportunity to study this extensive amendment. The Croquis can also be studied and the possibility contained in Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure will be used to postpone this vote to the end of today's sitting. This enables us, as in § 65 para. 1 last sentence means continuing “at the moment in the completion of the agenda”. I would like to make use of this possibility. - I don't see any objections to it. Then the debate is closed. No vote is taking place now. It will be moved to the end of the meeting. [[S. 257]] We are continuing to complete the agenda. 9. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (256 e.g._Other Organiser Additional Agreements to the Agreement of 4 April 1989 October 1954 between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany to avoid double taxation in the areas of inheritance taxes (328 d.a.) 10. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (257 e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and Mongolia in the fields of income tax and wealth, and Protocol 329, e.g.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (259 e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Cuba on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth and Protocol (330 d.a.) 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (258 e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria on the promotion and mutual protection of investment (331b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16698	We come to points 9 to 12 of the agenda. There is no wish by the rapporteur to refer to these proposals. There is also no mention of words. That is why there is no debate either. We shall therefore proceed to the votes. These are carried out separately, as always in such cases, through individual applications. First of all, we are voting on the Committee's request for the conclusion of the State Treaty: Additional Agreements to the Agreement of 4 April 1989 October 1954 between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany to avoid double taxation in the area of inheritance taxes (256 d.b.) the authorisation to be granted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign of approval. – The approval of this State Treaty is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Committee's request, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with Mongolia in the fields of income and wealth taxes (257 d.e.c.) the authorisation to be granted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this State Treaty to give a sign. – I note that the approval was adopted unanimously. We shall vote on the Committee's request, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with the Government of the Republic of Cuba on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth, together with Protocol (259, e.g.) the authorisation to be granted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this State Treaty to give a sign. – The approval was adopted unanimously. We shall vote on the Committee's request, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria on the promotion and mutual protection of investment (288 d.a.) the authorisation to be granted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this State Treaty to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. This is what we have done in this part of today's agenda. 13. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (283 D.B._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Staff Act 1948, the Richterdienstsgesetz, the Land Teacher Service Law 1984, the National Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the the Law on the the Law on the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Service law-Novelle 2003) (320 d.a.) 14. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (284 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Employment Protection Act (BS-RG) (321 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16787	We now come to points 13 and 14 of the agenda. There is no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Kuntzl. The speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16812	Ladies and gentlemen! The 2nd. Service Law Novelle 2003 is a very comprehensive package with very heterogeneous materials, which are also assessed differently from us. This package includes, for example, the completion of the salary round in the public service – a degree to which we naturally also want to give our consent. This is why there is a The Socialist Group's request for a separate vote in order to be able to express our support for this point. This matter contains some unproblems and also some points which are quite welcome, such as an extended regulation on the right to part-time. Although we welcome this in principle, we also note the need to review the impact of the current regulation, in particular the impact on women's employment. On the one hand, it is necessary to see whether there is a corresponding scheme in pension law to ensure that these times are assessed accordingly, so that women do not receive a pension reduction, and on the other hand, I think it is also necessary to create such a scheme in public service to motivate men to motivate fathers to use such schemes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Also added, of course, is that it is necessary for other professional groups to have a similar right to be able to take part-time. There is also a positive emphasis on the administrative practice, which at least attempts to improve the skills training. It will be seen whether and to what extent it actually succeeds. But now on the points that make it impossible for us to agree: This is particularly the area in which the law of service is to be adapted to the 2002 university reform. On the one hand, we cannot agree because we were against this university law for good reasons and therefore, in consequence, we cannot support the adjustment of service rights even now. If you look at the desperate situation at the universities, you have to say that it unfortunately confirms the fears we have expressed. The desperate situation has arisen, among other things, by the fact that there are major financial difficulties caused not least by the implementation costs caused by the new service law. Therefore, you will understand that in this case we cannot give our consent. In addition, none of us today can say whether the university law will really keep constitutional law. This week, there was a hearing in the Constitutional Court, in which the Constitutional Court of Justice questioned the University Law very critically in several respects. From today's point of view, therefore, it cannot be said whether this law will not be repealed because of its illegality. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] As the last point, I would like to say that even the rectors' conference meant that the adjustment itself would be extremely excessive, and that many points were criticised. You only get close to these criticism points in a very marginal area. The rectors' conference is talking about significant shortcomings in this case, and I think that these points should be taken seriously and worked out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to refer to a debate which we have already held today. The amendment tabled by Mr Niederweiser is about you taking the anchor by agreeing to the request we are making. In this early retirement wave, which is now underway in the middle of the school year, it could be corrected by allowing teachers to be voluntarily available to schools on equal terms at least until the end of this school year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the second matter, to the Employment Protection Reform Act: This is actually only about adaptations. It is about adaptations to the protection of workers, which are unproblems in our view, and we will therefore agree with that.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16893	Mr Neugebauer has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16911	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I, together with Mrs Partik-Pablé, tabled an amendment to the draft law in the report of the Constitutional Committee (320 of the Supplements) on the Government template (283 of the Supplements). I would like to ask the President to refer to § 53 para. 4 GOG for reproduction and distribution. The core of this amendment is a competence directive for decisions in the personnel development of universities. This decision will be transferred to universities in the first instance. The appeal is addressed to the competent Federal Minister. Another point concerns the dangerous foreign operations of our military personnel, which are to find precipitation with a surcharge. This request also contains editorial corrections. . I ask the President to take this amendment into consideration. ==References== Service law-Novelle has already been implemented a lot. These are essentially the results of the social partners' negotiations between the Public Service and the Federal Government. The introduction of the administrative practice, for example, will replace previous aptitude training. We have created a new Military Promotion Act to improve the return of military persons to civil life on time. Based on the concept of power for international operations, KIOP, we have created very clear incentive systems to have the appropriate human resources available for foreign operations. We have – hopefully not in favour of this – also provided for a one-time payment, as is already the case in the executive field, for the survivors of soldiers who are fatally unhappy in foreign service. And there are adjustments to the University Law 2002. The amendment, which has already been the subject of the debate in the Committee, has dealt with changes in the competence of staff representatives and also with the plans to include part of the customs guard in the executive sector next year or to use it in the Federal Ministry of Finance for civilian tasks. At the heart of this amendment, which I have just quoted, is undoubtedly the conclusion of the salary between the unions of public services and the Federal Government. As is now known, the linear increase in salaries and service allowances is 1.85 percent. The duration is twelve months and essentially implies the rate of inflation forecast by the Wifo in 2004 and the economic growth rate currently established by Wifo in 2003. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the unbureaucratic, very competent and result-oriented negotiation, which ultimately brought a good echo from the economic research institutes in the replica to the media. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The result has also been extremely well accepted by Members. Finally, I would like to add that this time – and we believe this to be very useful – in the sense of the equivalent development of the right to serve on the employers' side were represented not only by the government, but also by countries and communities, and that we also had the corresponding trade unions at the table on the employee side. If I invite you now to agree to this proposal, I will also do so in the certainty that, on the basis of the unanimous decision of the national conference, I hope that the countries and communities will also understand this success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16972	The amendment tabled by Mr Neugebauer in his key points is distributed and is printed in the Stenographical Protocol and is therefore under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17195	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17213	Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President. First of all, the good news, which is what the Greens are saying in this Novelle Service Law and which points are quite positive. I would like to keep this very close, because Mr Kuntzl of the Socialist Group has already done so. The right to part-time employment and the possibility of reaching less than 50 percent in the public service now are, in the sense of the compatibility of work and family, but also in the sense that one does not lose the connection to the profession if one has family care obligations, is quite positive. In addition to these positive changes, the only question I ask is why the possibility of reducing employment to less than 50 percent should end with the third year of life of the child, because it may well be that for children older than three years of age, one wants to use this scheme. I have not found any explanation yet, although what is to be decided today is positive. – This is the first remark. The second point, in which I am already a little more ambivalent, concerns the question of the introduction of the administrative practice. I am therefore speaking ambivalently because, so to speak, I have experienced this aptitude training, which is not necessarily a success model. This is also commented on in the cover of the explanatory remarks on this Novelle lapidar service law with a sentence: The current Qualifications Act, which is provided for in the Contracting Staff Act, provides for: In fact, education is no longer used and academics are not open; therefore it is replaced by the administrative practice. This is a valuable information, but a valuable substanceless information, because I wonder: Why is skill training actually no longer used? Was it the legal framework, or was it perhaps the framework that existed in the resorts? The qualification training was not open to technical graduates and university graduates, but only – only! – Graduates of a middle education, but there must be some reason why it has not been used and why it has gone wrong. I think the Secretary of State was not present in the committee at the time, it was only the State Secretary for Sport. Were you in the committee? I have already asked you in committee: If laws are amended or a legal provision is tacit, there must be a justification for this. Is there any kind of evaluation that will lead you to replace this scheme with a new legal provision? – I am in principle completely open and believe that this is a measure that makes sense, but there has to be a reason why something has not proven itself and why it is replaced by something else, for otherwise I suspect that the new provision – like the old one – will not prove itself. – That’s the second remark. The third positive remark concerns the question of increasing salaries in the public service. Of course, we welcome this salary statement, which has been made there. In principle, we welcome the fact that he has come to this level at all. He is also – and this was quite honoured by the union, by the staff representatives – to welcome from the speed of the state of life and from the dimension. I have already said that the Austrian pensioners would be very pleased with a pension increase to this extent, although it should not be the case that the impression is that everyone would be completely satisfied and exclusively satisfied. I don't think everything has been done with it. To my last two comments: Now I would also like to follow Mrs Kuntzl's statement, which meant that, since the implementation of the University Law in 2002, it is all the more consistent that the opposition is advocating itself and refusing to do so, albeit logically or consistently following it. Not only the possible constitutional concerns that were expressed and those that might also be true – I cannot premise – but also the practice that has developed from it shows that the University Law 2002 is not only a leak law, but also a pan-based law. And in view of that, You don't expect to join him. A final remark, Mr State Secretary: In the afternoon, without the presence of members of the government, we have already discussed the problem of early retirement of teachers and the impact of these early retirements in schools. Now I'm very mild and say, maybe nobody's broken his head over it. If that were the case, it would be most plausible, and in school this would have been censored with minus four in the assessment. One has, I think, broken one's head, one's wanted the effects that are now, and, knowingly, has been taken into account. I do not want to spread on this because Mr Brosz is still going to comment on it, but I am concerned, Mr State Secretary, that I should like to speak to you about it. say that this was not only a hitch, but even a shock towards the quality of the Austrian education system, as I did not know him at the level of compulsory schools and also the higher schools in recent years. There has always been a slow but yet development, but what is happening now and the resulting mismanagement, which cannot be solved otherwise, is carried out on the back of the children. What has happened in the last few days really punishes all the lies that claim to be good with the welfare of Austrian youth, children and with education. You should know that, gentlemen! Perhaps you also have school-based children – if so, then ask yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17286	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17304	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment to the Service Law also contains essential steps that allow the establishment of the KIOP units for Austria. KIOP are forces for international operations that have been decided on at EU level. These units are now set up in the strength of 50 000 to 60 000 people, and Austria will participate with about 1,500 people. The establishment of organisational units of the Federal Army with a high degree of willingness for the posting of foreign missions, while respecting the constitutionally established voluntary principle, is therefore also the content of this law. It is a voluntary system in which the soldiers receive a premium to stand ready for these forces for international operations. The legislative texts that make this possible are, according to our view, well successful and will also ensure that the federal army succeeds in putting up these 1,500 people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17334	Mr Finz, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17353	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to address the questions raised by Mrs Stoisits, who is unfortunately not in the Chamber. The training of qualifications has therefore been abolished because it has not proved itself to be successful. It was above all not open to academics, and especially for these, there is a great need in the public service. 50 percent of the staff mainly in Ministries are academics, and we wanted to do this after the example of judicial training, i.e. the year of the court. On the one hand, because in the private sector there is an increasing demand for professional pre-practice and young people, when they apply in the private sector, can thus point to a pre-practice, and on the other hand, because, despite restrictive staffing – there are still personnel shots, as far as they are covered in the employment plan – we also have the opportunity to observe people and, if there is interest, choose the best ones. – This is the reason for the new regulation. As has been said, academics have so far been excluded from the training of qualifications, and those who have previously taken advantage of them have not received a job in the private sector despite this qualification training if no relevant need has been given. – I hope that with this new form of training, we will hit the nail on the head. On the topic of teachers. – This scheme for teachers has existed since 1998, so it has not been decided by this government but by the great coalition, and this scheme should allow young teachers candidates to pursue. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That's wrong! That's not true! That was a completely different rule! You changed them!]] [[Abg. Oils: All right! Come on!]] The person takes on a high pension loss if he accepts this model, and – and you have to pay attention to that – it is not that someone makes a request and is therefore automatically sent to pension. You have to weigh whether this is even possible on duty. It is necessary to weigh the interest in the service if there is a request for early retirement, and this is very different from the national school authorities or the City School Council in Vienna. [[Abg. Oils: It must not be re-occupied either, is in the law!]] - That's not true. It can be re-occupied! In the context of the establishment plans it is very good to be re-occupied! What you're talking about is only the 50-55-year-olds; it's not allowed to be re-occupied here. [[Abg. Oillingers: But that made you possible! That's what you've made possible!]] There have been different practices. Some national school authorities, except for the Vienna City School Council, have examined very well the extent to which such a request to the school business is at risk when it comes to replacing it. This was also specified. In Vienna, for whatever reason – probably because the trade union is so strong – all applications have been accepted and now has difficulty maintaining an orderly service. This is where the failure lies in school management. The determination is good, has proven itself and is now being continued in a changed form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17435	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17454	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! We're negotiating the 2nd. Service law Novelle 2003, and I would like to thank all the public officials for their services at the beginning of my speech on behalf of my group, but also personally. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, with representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We all use the services of the public service around the clock – also here in this House! I would like to thank very much, ladies and gentlemen, the staff members of our Parliament's Directorate for their support in our work at this meeting, especially during the negotiations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think we can be proud of the public service, of our employees! Ladies and gentlemen! The now present novelle is actually a technical novel, dear Fritz Neugebauer, enriched, of course, by the salary conclusion. I underline what you meant, that it is good and right and sensible that the local authorities of the countries and the municipalities should also sit at the negotiating table. I mean, there has been a successful salary conclusion, which we will also decide today. But, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the government groups – and I will address this on every occasion – we must not only represent public service people as a cost factor! We must not forget: These are people, these are employees, these are colleagues with concerns, with needs and with fears! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As a service provider, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have also been able to make sure that people in the public service find those conditions they need in order to be able to carry out the already heavy service in the interests of the Republic and the population. It does nothing if we hear from the Minister of the Interior at every meeting here in the House, he has had enough staff, never before so many executive officials have been in use on the street, if, as part of the agenda item previously negotiated, a change proposal is almost revealed that 150 planning points are necessary in the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is positive when he gets it!]] We know that anyway! We've been saying that for years, but it's always being pushed aside! I have also said again and again at every meeting of the Committee on Justice: Our judicial institutions are not only overcrowded, but they also urgently need staff. But over, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, we could speak without problems in the relevant committees. We've got time for it. I do not think anyone in this House has to go the way to “rejoice” such a thing in the form of an amendment proposal, just before the vote – under quotation marks. I mean, we need and want a good public service. We are all proud, and internationally, everything looks to Austria. The Chamber of Commerce – and I have always been grateful for that – has also said clearly: The Austrian public service is also a guarantee for our economic location! Again: Let us not forget that there are people behind it and that those employees need our common support, our common solidarity, ladies and gentlemen. My previous speaker has already pointed out: Some points are positive, and we will vote separately, of course, because they are correct because they are necessary. We will not be able to vote for it – Mr Niederwieser will still deal with it – in connection with the school sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17511	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Winkler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17532	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! One of the most important changes to the present 2. Service law Novelle 2003 concerns the introduction of the administrative practice. Mr Finz has already explained the importance and importance of this, and I can only underline it. I would therefore like to refer only to this important change in the contract staff law. We all know that it is especially important for young people to know quickly which profession is the right one. It is equally important for service providers to be able to assess the professional skills of a service provider properly and objectively. The introduction of the administrative practice gives both sides, namely service providers and service providers, a very valuable decision-making tool. I am even convinced that this new administrative practice will become an even more powerful and modern public administration in Austria. That is why I regard it as an important milestone in our professional training that there will be the possibility of a practice for public service activity in the future. By means of the new administrative internship, Maturants, graduates of a secondary school, persons with completed teaching, graduates of technical schools and university graduates have the opportunity to enter into a training relationship with the federal government for a maximum of one year. As already mentioned, the administrative internship replaces previous aptitude training, and it is of course also of particular importance that the administrative internship is also open to academics. I would like to stress that this new administrative practice will increase the quality of skilled workers. The higher quality will result from the fact that, contrary to the previous aptitude training, a type of job rotation is provided for in the administrative internship, i.e. the intern is not only used in a single place in the administrative service, but will be able to gain his experience in several departments. The internship is supplemented by appropriate courses. This varied activity gives the trainee a comprehensive insight into the organisation of the public service, and the service provider, that is, the federal government, benefits from this administrative internship insofar as he receives dedicated and highly qualified staff. If young people then choose to enter the Federal Service on the basis of experience in the internship and in the event of an appropriate application, the guarantee for professional staff shall be ensured accordingly. This is in addition to administrative simplifications, e-government et cetera is also an important and important factor for a new modern Austrian administration. As of 1.1.2004, a total of 250 training places are planned for all departments. The Federal Chancellery will coordinate the division with the individual ministries. By the way, the administrative internship is a training relationship, not a service relationship. Social security – and I can stress this in particular – has also been provided. Administrative practitioners are legally insured for sickness, accident and pension purposes and are also covered by the provisions of the Mother Protection Act. Dear ladies and gentlemen! For this reason, and in this sense, I should also like to express my support for this 2. Request service law novelle; as I was allowed to know from my previous speaker, this will also happen. With regard to its comments, I may mention: For us, it is obvious that the service providers are not cost factors but valuable employees in the public service!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17590	The next speaker was Mr Dr Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17608	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! In order to make it easy for Parliament's Directorate to make it easy, I would like to begin by submitting an amendment which we have prepared to 283 of the Supplements, and I would ask the President of the Council to reproduce and distribute to the Members because of its extent. I'm going to explain it in the core points now. I come back to the discussion which took place here at about 4 p.m. In the context of a deadline debate, this issue has already been discussed, that more than 1,500 teacher posts are no longer re-occupied, resulting in major problems in schools. It was really shocking that, when Mr Stoisits described a case example, it was responded with laughter. [[Abg. Murauer: No, no, my colleague!]] That's right! You were one of those who laughed most, Mr Murauer. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is unheard of, Mr. Murauer!]] One who laughed most about it was you if you want to know exactly. If you hadn't called in, I wouldn't have said that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I thought it couldn't be that the children, the pupils, and the Members of this House don't care. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Right!]] [[Abg. Murauer: Not right!]] That must not be, and therefore, Mr Murauer, you will all be given the opportunity to correct this mistake once again by giving our amendment the consent I will give to the following. Many teachers did not retire in December because they chose this and because they wanted it, but because the next option for retirement would not have been given at the end of the school year, but, depending on age, only again in four, five, six or seven years. It is wrong, Mr State Secretary, if you say that is a regulation that has been in place for years. The rule that young teachers are able to get jobs rather than jobs by going to the sliding board, taking part-carnations is very old, that is true, but you have the date 1 with the pension reform before the summer. In December, this regulation was put into effect and made from a very good regulation a complete brush. – Maybe unconscious, because I don’t want to say that everyone here knew so well what was going to be decided. But with 1. December to have to go into retirement – Mrs. Professor Spiel, a member of the Future Commission, just recently described on the radio what this would mean for the children. ==References====External links== The following can be read about an interview with Federal Minister Gehrer: “But even Gehrer must admit that 2001 – which is not true, it is 2003 – “in the decision of the Social Plan Act, something has happened at the level of officials in the Parliament Committee”,... It was only in the previous month that she learned of this law gap and was ‘shocked’.” What do you do if you find a law gap and if you agree that it would actually be better? At least those teachers who want to teach until the end of the school year will give them the opportunity to retire at the end of the school year at those conditions to which they would now go. That would not be all that would certainly not be all 4,000, but it would be a few hundred who would say out of conviction: I'd like to do that if the legislator allows me. Ladies and gentlemen. If we look primarily at the children and if we agree that it always has to be about the children when we talk about school, then this situation can be solved in many cases – not in all – by reaching this deadline. Mr Amon said that it was legally wrong. – That’s not right, the service law is extremely complicated: We must leave the provision in the Federal Social Plan Act and change the dates around, in the BDG, in the LDG, in agricultural school law. It is not necessary to change the provision in the Social Plan Act, there we need it, but the dates need to be changed. Things are presented correctly on and on and on and on, and I am excited whether another positive message comes from Mr Brad, who is a teacher himself. You should know best what that could mean and how many children and how many parents we can help in this situation. I'm appealing to All of them: Voices Please accept our amendment!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17697	The amendment tabled by Dr Niederwieser, colleagues, is in accordance with § 53 para. 4 has been distributed to Members, is printed in the Stenographical Protocol and is therefore under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17829	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17847	Mr President. My esteemed Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This Service Law Novelle creates a whole range of pay-related, monetary and also relevant new schemes, in particular the KIOP service law, the service right for the forces participating in international operations. Of course, an incentive system is needed to ensure that people are able to benefit from foreign operations and to achieve a high level of willingness in this context. Ladies and gentlemen! We must note that the threat has changed. We must note that there is no longer the classical space distribution. And we must also note that foreign operations are naturally on the rise and therefore also our armed forces, our federal forces must be trained accordingly for foreign operations. There are currently about 370 people on the Golan Heights, 525 in Kosovo, and other areas will be added to the calculation in the future. Because the legal basis was also a subject in the Constitutional Committee, I have made the effort to research a little in this regard. The legal basis is, of course, based on the guidelines of the so-called Petersberg Declaration. And so that we also know this here in the high house: It was at the meeting of the Council of Ministers of the Western European Union at the end of 1992 when the Member States agreed to make available to the Union associations, armed forces, in particular for humanitarian actions or evacuating measures, peacekeeping measures, commitment to crisis management, including, of course, measures to restore peace. I believe that this will also be part of the tasks of our federal army in the future. For example, if you report as a military person on time or for a corresponding foreign mission, it is right and reasonable that the State should also take care of the tasks performed in the service of the general public during this service and after the termination of the service relationship. The newly created Military Promotion Act allows all these measures, and that is also right and cheap. This new military promotion law is certainly an improvement in the old law, because it will ultimately also be possible to provide training abroad, because professional promotion can also take place during the service relationship and because the The duration of professional promotion after termination of the service shall be increased accordingly. Finally, the federal government is paying the costs. This also takes account of the principle of lifelong learning and, of course, of continuing training and also of labour market policy priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17890	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17908	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will support Mr Niederweiser's amendment. The problem has, I believe, already been described in the context of the deadline debate. To put it to the fore again: In particular, in cases where there is evidence that there is an impairment in school quality where there are supply restrictions, we consider it necessary to withdraw this acute measure in order to maintain at least one orderly operation by the end of the school year and to ensure, in particular in the field of support measures, in the field of mother-speaking additional education, in the area of integration, that these restrictions have only a few days and not in the long term. But I would like to take the opportunity to take a closer look at what Mr Finz said about non-retirement. They used to be with the Court of Auditors, and I hope that the Court of Auditors will also deal with the issue of early retirement. They say the non-retirement concerns only all under 55-year-olds who go there in early retirement. But I know other cases – I have quoted this before, but there you were not here – which I would like to show you again. In the district of Neunkirchen in Lower Austria, 40 teachers are recruited 26 and these 40 early pensioners are 40 directors in the district of Neunkirchen. Some of these are not yet 55 years old. In view of this situation, I ask you: How can that work? The position of a director or a director cannot be saved! It can't be that you just save the directors in schools. – I mean, it could be that way, but I don't suppose that's your model. That is, these posts are explicitly re-occupied, although they have been abandoned by people who go in early retirement and are not yet 55 years old. Maybe you can answer me again how this can happen. I think that this statement is excellent. Perhaps there are other legal gaps here that can be clarified – otherwise I hope that the Court of Auditors As soon as possible, it will deal with and clarify whether there is a violation of law here or not.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17953	The next speaker was Mr Murauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17972	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The present Novelle Service Law gives us, to a large extent, the possibility of fulfilling our obligation to be able to send forces for international use. I can remind you that we have signed contracts in this respect, have entered into commitments and have to provide 1 500 soldiers in the next few years, which can be quickly trained and equipped with equipment and secured. With this law we have created a corresponding incentive system. Ladies and gentlemen! The Petersberg tasks are essential for the KIOP operations, and I would remind you that these Petersberg tasks and Petersberg-plus are primarily peace-keeping, but also peace-building, or are used to fight terrorism and disaster aid. In this incentive system for temporary soldiers – three to six years – there will be a special contract, as will contract staff who will also be a service contract, so that the wage adjustment can be more flexible. The advantages of occupational workers' pension schemes, i.e. redundancies and pension funds, are of course included, and thus these new contract staff and soldiers also have a special position. It is also provided for a corresponding allowance, a monthly delivery premium of €336 and additional €100 for professional soldiers – but it is still negotiated whether you can increase allowances here – and €200 is intended for temporary service contracts. This foreign use will, of course, be used for definitions and will also be of appropriate importance for increasing opportunities. If you want to take a higher position within the federal army, this foreign use will certainly be of importance. Finally, I would like to mention the provision of assistance for soldiers, because they guarantee a fine amount of € 109 000 for the survivors. And as the last point, there is also equality of treatment officers and nurses in civil hospitals, so that they receive the same reward. It is a law, ladies and gentlemen, that enables us to send kioP soldiers in peace-saving operations.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18015	The next speaker was Mr Brader.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18033	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. I would like to refer to the Federal Law on the The Federal Civil Service Act is amended, speaking. Safety and health are important concerns, because work must and should not make it sick. However, appropriate legal regulations should be reviewed again and again for their actual efficiency, and excesses, which do not correspond to the actual intentions, should be deleted. To this end, the Workers' Protection Act was reformed two years ago. These rules for the private sector should now also apply to the Federal Service in order to avoid unnecessary administrative burdens and to make use of savings potential. All in all, workers' protection legislation pursues the same objectives, which are also based on the Workers' Protection Act, namely to avoid accidents at work, occupational diseases and other work-related diseases, and to allow all workers to live and retire without any work-related impairment. I should like to point out that the provisions in force in Austria are very good and should also be maintained in this way. Nevertheless, I believe, one has to reform and rethink in the sense of a slimmer administration. What exactly changes? – The reporting obligations, the instruction of staff, the working hours of work psychologists, toxicologists, chemists, ergonomists and other experts can be taken into account in future in those times which were previously exclusively intended for the prevention of occupational physicians. The same applies to follow-up evaluations. For services with more than 50 staff, the new law will in future provide for the possibility of including staff representatives on security trustees. In the future, a working protection committee will only be set up in services with low risk potential from a threshold of 250 instead of 100 to date. There should be no compulsive obligations. The expected savings for the federal government amount to around € 890 000 per year. In my opinion, this reform law is entirely in the sense of careful handling of means of taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18082	Mr Schöls has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18100	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! We are now trying to clarify a number of open questions with the legislative instruments which are now under discussion and in the course of the vote. I am glad that, in a functioning social partnership, it has succeeded in clarifying the issue of salary policy, in a way that some trade unionists would no longer have accepted in recent weeks. Perhaps some would even have been pleased if the unions of the public service had also followed a certain flock drive. Here, in an exemplary way, a civilized negotiating culture, a salary settlement was reached, which regulates the rights of public servants, social policy, the rights of public servants to pay. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I ask everyone here that we, as politicians, accordingly refrain from it when it is written in the media: The public servants cost the taxpayer...! This salary rate of 1.85 per cent is something that those in the public service, like all other workers, deserve. And all those who shout that there are too few gendarmen, too few police officers and too few nurses are called to say here that this media image that the public officials cost the taxpayer something is simply unjustified. I would also like to thank all public servants for their service to society at this point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We are also dealing with a number of other things with the law on service today; that has already been addressed. One of these is international solidarity in the form of the kioP delivery premium. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! "Solidarity" is not just the title of a trade union newspaper, but solidarity must also be aroused in Europe on many issues. That is why we are also obliged to provide the soldiers concerned with appropriate material safeguards, as well as the survivors of those who are killed by assistants both domestically and abroad. The privileges of public servants were also addressed. There has been a regulation whereby the provision of child care benefits will now also be possible for those employed in the public service. I can remind you that the Civil Protection Reform Act has been implemented for the public service, which has been valid for private sector workers since 2001. Therefore, I ask everyone to consider how “justified” is the accusation that public servants are only the privileged ones. All in all, these are good templates. Therefore: Happy to the trade union negotiators, a thank you to the Secretary of State and all those who have contributed to bringing this good result to our homes!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18160	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft law concerning the 2. Service law Novelle 2003 in 320 of the Supplements. Mr Neugebauer, Dr. Partik-Pablé, colleagues, tabled an additional or amendment request. In addition, Mr Ddr. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). There is also a desire for a separate vote by Dr Wittmann, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and by the supplementary or amendment proposals referred to above, following the classification of the draft law, and then on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to the separate vote of Article 1(9a) and paragraph 52, as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members who are here for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. Mr Neugebauer, Dr. Partik-Pablé, tabled an amendment concerning Article 1 (62) and point 75. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1(80a) as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is unanimously adopted. Mr Neugebauer, Dr Partik-Pablé, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(83). I am looking for a sign for those Members who are here. – This is unanimously adopted. Mr Neugebauer, Dr Partik-Pablé, colleagues, tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of a new point 83a into Article 1. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 1(113), (115) and ( 118a) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Deputies DDr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 119a into Article 1. I ask those Members who are here for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1, point 127 and point 130, as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Deputies DDr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 130a into Article 1. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 1 134a and 134b as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those Members who are here. – This is unanimously adopted. Mr Neugebauer, Dr Partik-Pablé, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning Article 1( 136). I ask those Members of the House who are here for a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 1(153a), Article 2(10) to (17), point 18, point 19, point 24, point 25, point 26, point 45, point 48 and points 50 to 51, as amended by the Committee's report. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Mr Neugebauer, Dr Partik-Pablé, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning Article 2 (52). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 2 53 to 67, as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those Members who are here. – This is unanimously adopted. Mr Neugebauer, Dr Partik-Pablé, colleagues, tabled an amendment on Article 2 68. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 2 69 to 71 and point 72 litera (a) as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is unanimously adopted. Mr Neugebauer, Dr Partik-Pablé, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning Article 2 (72) litera b. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a positive sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 2 73 to 85, as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who agree to this for a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Mr Neugebauer, Dr Partik-Pablé, colleagues, tabled an amendment on Article 2(86). Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We now come to the separate vote on Article 2(s) 87 to 89, points 91 to 95, point 97, point 98, points 99 to 101, points 107 to 121, points 124 to 132, points 134 to 140, point 142, point 143, point 7a, point 9a, point 9b, point 12a, point 17, point 23, point 29a and point 30a, as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members who speak for it to be a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Mr Neugebauer, Dr Partik-Pablé, colleagues, tabled another amendment concerning Article 3(30b). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 3 30c to 30j, point 65a, point 67a and point 67b as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Mr Neugebauer, Dr Partik-Pablé, colleagues, tabled an amendment on Rule 3(71). I am looking for a sign for those Members who agree to this. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 3 74a and point 77, as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Mr Neugebauer, Dr Partik-Pablé, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning Article 3(82). Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – Adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 3(83a), (85a), (85b) and (88a) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members who speak for it to be a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Mr Neugebauer, Dr Partik-Pablé, colleagues, tabled another amendment concerning Article 3 90a. I ask those Members of the House who agree to this to give a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We are now voting separately on Article 3 98a to 98k, point 105a, point 107a, point 111, Article 4 2a to 2c, point 14a, point 15a to 15d, point 18, Article 5(3), point 5a and point 5b, as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign. – It was adopted unanimously. Deputies DDr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 6a into Article 5. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 5(9), as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members who agree to this for a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Deputies DDr. Deweisers, ladies and gentlemen, have an additional request for the insertion of a new point... – It is particularly interesting if the vote is still on the telephone! That's clearly too much. Deputies DDr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 9a into Article 5. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – It is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 6(3) and point 6a as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Deputies DDr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 7a into Article 6. I ask those Members of the House who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – It is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 6(11) as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Deputies DDr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled another supplementary proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 11a into Article 6. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – It is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 7(21a), (27), (28a), (30a), (33a) and (34a) as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those Members who agree to this. – This is unanimously adopted. Deputies DDr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 38a into Article 7 and the subsequent paragraph amendment thereto. I am looking for those members of the House who agree to this for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 7(38a) and points 39 to 42 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are here. – This is unanimously adopted. Deputies DDr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of paragraph 42a into Article 7. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 8(7)a, 12 and 13(11a) and 14 on paragraph 45(23) as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – It is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law on a civil protection reform law, including the title and receipt in 284 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – He has been accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The law is therefore also adopted by a majority at third reading. 15. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (312 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Information Security Act (322, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18506	We arrive at the 15th. Agenda item. Mr Parnigoni is the first speaker in the debate. Your watch will be set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18527	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! After this voting marathon, we are now dealing with the revision of the Information Security Act. I would like to say that the government has failed to resolve and revise the shortcomings and the worrying passages that were mentioned in the last debate of this law in December 2001. You remember, at that time the SPÖ strongly pointed out the restrictive nature of this law. For example, prison sentences of up to half a year are provided if, for example, confidential information from the Federal Offices is not published, i.e. the three levels of secrecy are not kept confidential, secret or strictly secret. Of course, the level of the penalty is to be questioned in relation to the proportionality of this penalty, and this must be pointed out. At the time, the debate was also on how the publication of sensitive government documents is made more difficult by the media and, in our opinion, the right of freedom of expression and freedom of information is also restricted. Unfortunately, we cannot debate changes in these points. They're not planned. No changes have been made by the government. Today's amendment provides for an extension of this law, namely to entrepreneurs and their employees who are trying to award international contracts for projects where high safety standards are required, such as ESA contracts. This is about the fact that even persons who receive information that is classified as confidential, secret or strictly secret in the course of their professional activity are also subject to a security check in accordance with the Security Police Act, so that the company can also receive the safety safety safety certificate for this work. We are well aware of the importance, namely, for those companies that seek participation in research programmes such as ESA's, in intergovernmental cooperation, in order to include the corresponding work, the corresponding contracts. In the case of an It is also clear to us that compliance with strict safety standards within the company is a prerequisite for such cooperation. However, High House, we cannot understand why it has such a hurry that this passus should be decided. In the case of such a delicate matter, which is also relevant to the issues of data protection, which affect the maintenance of the intimate atmosphere of the workers, it is in fact incomprehensible why there has been no review procedure at all and why this novelle should be whipped here by Parliament. This procedure is typical of the way in which the government deals with Parliament. It would be important to clarify important questions, for example, that at the level of secrecy, even family members in the household of the staff to be checked should be subject to such a review. For us, the question is as follows: How is this going to happen? How is it regulated for persons not members of the company to be informed of such a review? Do they get any knowledge of this? Do they need approval? All of this is not regulated. These areas of concern have also not been more widely discussed by the government, for example in the review process. It didn't happen. The fundamental shortcomings that we criticised as early as December 2001 have not been corrected. That is why we cannot accept this proposal. FPÖ and ÖVP will, of course, now claim that the Social Democrats are preventing contracts from being obtained by companies. I can only tell you that this procedure is more than unreasonable. On the other hand, it is of course natural to respect the rights of the people responsible for the business success of the companies. In contrast to the government, we feel obliged to do so. The sentence of Peter Schieder of that time is equally valid today: The day will come when it will not punish those who are infringing secrets, but those whom they have before the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18588	The next speaker was Mr Brader. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18607	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The proposed amendment to the Information Security Act is a necessary measure to enable Austrian companies and institutions to participate in research programmes such as ESAs. Two months ago, a security agreement was signed with the European Space Agency. The existence of a state certificate of compliance with certain standards of secrecy in the undertakings and research institutions concerned is described as a condition for participation. However, the implementation of the Security Convention lacked an essential basis, namely the legal possibility to grant such a safety safety certificate to the relevant companies and research institutions upon request. However, in order to comply with the specific international obligations which exist to protect military information, Members of Parliament, Dr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Scheibner and colleagues, make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let us come to the perspectives that this law opens to us. Austria is already a supplier of know-how and important high-tech products for European space. In order for this process to continue to develop successfully, this law is necessary. By allowing Austrian companies and research institutions to participate, for example, in the GALILEO satellite navigation program, production at the production site of high-tech is ensured. I think that's in all our minds. I would therefore ask that this proposal be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18677	The amendment tabled by Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Scheibner and others, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18698	Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is enough if I tell you that I would reject this proposal on my own because I feel it is a presumption that at second reading a motion for an amendment to a law is being tabled. And no one has lost a word about it – nor the first speaker of the government coalition – why it should be so that one does not make an assessment process, but in the second reading a motion for an amendment of this length. What do you think of ÖVP and FPÖ in a government work that is designed in such a way that there is no single session day and no legislative decision on which amendments have not been tabled by the government parties at second reading?- Oh, my God! No government in this world could allow any parliament to face up to such a process! This really only allows a black and blue Federal Government! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: No, a red-black too!]] We have already rejected an amendment to the Security Information Act – for good reasons. And there was nothing we should have changed our opinion on this! On the contrary: It's getting worse now!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18741	Mr Scheibner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18775	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Terezija Stoisits, you're here in the high house like me: We have experienced quite different times when even the previous speaker of the great coalition has tabled thick amendments, although I say that I too am not happy that some ministries – however necessary – have very short-term proposals for amendment. [[Objection to the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Mr Parnigoni, I do not understand this rejection, because we need this law, we also need this change so that Austria has the opportunity to participate in international research and development programmes in the field of high technology. And there is a need for silence and secrecy, otherwise you will not be involved in these projects. In order to create and maintain high-quality jobs in Austria and to participate in these projects, this change of law is necessary, and we should therefore all decide on this change of law and also this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18817	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 312 of the Supplements. Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Scheibner, Mr President, have tabled an amendment on paragraph 4 of the draft law. In view of the fact that there is only one application, I shall immediately leave the draft law with the title and receipt in 312 of the Supplements, taking account of the amendment amendment. Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Scheibner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to the draft law to give an appropriate sign. – It is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 16. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 292/A by Mr Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Mag. Dr. Magda Bleckmann, colleagues in a federal law that amends a Federal Law on the Promotion of the Press (Press Promotion Act 2004) and the KommAustria Act and the Public Service Promotion Act (323 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18884	We now reach the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap, with a five-minute voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18909	Mr President. Before I go to the actual item on the agenda, I would like to make the following point: The government should make a little effort to draw up better laws, because this orgy on amendments only shows that your coalition is working quite sluggish and sluggish, so that this is not necessarily a card for a very concentrated activity. There are probably a lot of inequalities, many conflicts and disagreements behind them. This has also proved to be the situation of this press promotion project, where it took a very, very long time for proposals to be presented at all. [[Abg. May. Molterer: A good law!]] And when you saw this template, you were actually very disappointed. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who is “man”?]] What was the result of this template? – I mean, some newspapers will not have been disappointed at all, but the truth is: As the “press” got less and less of the old promotion and the “standard” fell out, the Federal Chancellery has become more and more mint, Mr. State Secretary Morak, and then one has finally tried to take steps. To understand me correctly: I consider the “standard” and “the press” to be two quality newspapers. Of course! And, of course, we must do everything we can to ensure that these products can continue to be manufactured. What, however, is balanced with other newspaper titles, I can't really see such a thing: The new system, the new key you have found, is at a far lower level than the previous general or special press promotion. Now there is the so-called sales promotion instead of the general press promotion of € 4.91 million, if I see it correctly. Then there is special press promotion with €7.21 million and quality or journalist promotion with €1.81 million. This is a very low level, a far, far lower level. And in addition, the fact that the cancellation of the postage was actually a subsidy – in old currency: almost 700 million schilling – is only weighted into a fraction and the entire press promotion has actually experienced a radical reduction, so that for many newspapers – except press, standard, economic papers, and various church newspapers – only marginally small increases or rather losses can be reported. This, of course, leads to an blatant distortion of competition. Therefore, the displeasure expressed by some newspaper publishers is fully justified. The “Salzburger Nachrichten” are also a quality newspaper, perhaps also some of the federal newspapers. Perhaps the “curier” has brought a little too often the pomp and too little the key, so that it is now “punished ” a little bit. And perhaps this is similar in magazines such as “NEWS” and other weekly newspapers, so that they just complained that this has led to one – one has corrected a little afterwards – disadvantage in the weekly newspapers against newspapers. There was therefore no new system found, but a arbitrary system was chosen. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's how you did it!]] Obviously, they just sat down and said: Now let's look at who we like and who we don't – for whatever reason. There have, of course, been some where you were obliged to thank God, and it would have been a pity if the “press ” or the “standard ” had gotten real problems; no question! But the volume which these two now obtain and which the others now feel as a distortion of competition, as it were, I would like to say critically. Therefore, to the increases for these newspapers, but no to the point that the others get nothing, and no to this low volume or these huge cuts, which can be observed in this funding area as a whole. And last but not least, I would like to add: Our proposal is aimed at general media promotion. We would also be concerned that non-profit radios, Internet platforms, are also included, that you really consider a more comprehensive media promotion and that this is not limited to this printing media area again. That means that the goal must be, there must be as many newspaper titles as possible, so there must be a variety, but there must also be quality. And there, I think, are, of course, the promotion of journalists, the training of journalists, the editorials of teaching, that is an important thing. It would be good if all newspapers had the opportunity to work in this field so that young journalists could take the first steps in a editorial work. Summaries are: It's unsatisfying, it's not a new system. It actually creates distortion of competition, it is unfair, and it is, of course, far too little. That is why the Socialist Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats cannot, of course, agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18978	The next speaker was Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18998	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know where Mr Cap takes the content for his statement. He cannot have dealt with this law, because all that he has accused I cannot actually see in this draft law. I'm sorry! [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Because you haven't read it!]] First of all, you have accused us of being so much less, Mr Cap. It may be too little in total. This is a criticism that can be applied almost anywhere, that is no question when money is spent. But fact is, it's just as much as before, you know that very well: It was € 13.9 million, and even now € 13.9 million is distributed. It is right, it has been negotiated for a long time, for two years, and it is, of course, like any law, a compromise. However, I think that this new press promotion, contrary to the opinion you have expressed, helps to further promote or maintain media diversity in Austria and is also a quality assurance. I'll give you a point, after all: What I find particularly remarkable and particularly important is that this time, under the title "Quality promotion and future security", there is more money for the training of journalists. For the foreign correspondents there are grants, for the journalist academies and for press clubs. This is a good thing and is to be explicitly emphasized. There are objective criteria. They've been talking about imbalance. I don't know how you take this. It is really objective for the first time, because it depends on the sold edition and after nothing else. The sold edition is determined that the data come from the independent ÖAK. The promotion is transparent, the promotion is published on the homepage of the Kommunestria. The Support Directives will be published and the Commission's decisions will also be published. The system is simple, as opposed to earlier, when it came to complicated conditions, in the end it is only more about the conditions sold. I don't understand either. Their reports today in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” as regards the promotion of political motives, because one really cannot assume that the “standard” of the government is particularly close to the government or in some way promotes the government. This is not a statement from me, but a statement of the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”. Overall, I can tell my group that we believe that it is a good compromise, a good law. It puts press promotion on new legs. We look forward to it and will be happy to give this law our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19033	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19054	Poštovane lady i gospode! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Mr State Secretary, we have already had the pleasure of discussing with you about this supposedly large throw in relation to press promotion in committee. I am saying “so supposed” already so suffocating because I cannot hide the ladies and gentlemen who were not in the committee that not this federal government, but the previous federal government on 4 May. Since February 2000, it has begun to present the large litter in connection with media promotion in Austria. Good thing needs a while, you'd say. But this thing that came about there for a long time has gross defects, I would say. I do not want to highlight the things that the Greens consider to be positive in this law. The fact that the training of journalists has been strengthened is positive is a long-standing demand of the Greens. I remember years ago, Mr Klubobmann, too. That's quite positive. The question of special media promotion is also to be assessed positively. It is always the question – I have already said it – the glass is half full or half empty. I'm gonna tell you why it's half empty. The innovation of press promotion with the argument “Maintaining diversity” is certainly an improvement in the status quo. However, the law is far from being a great throw, because, so to speak, nothing is done but to attach to what has already been. So what the big innovations are, they're totally oblivious to me. Ladies and gentlemen, who deal with media issues, the Secretary of State, in particular, know that the Greens are very much in favour of media promotion in this country. I have not heard the beginning of Mr Cap's speech, but I assume he has also stressed it. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Nothing fails!]] We understand media not only print products and these types of changes that have now been made, but the media concept for us is beyond that. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I said too!]] But even if you see it in the reduced form, it is not enough, as the law has now been changed, because – and I say that as a Green – as long as party newspapers are still supported, something else is the “New Volksblatt Salzburg”, the “New Volksblatt Oberösterreich” or the “KTZ”... – These are party newspapers, and it is not excluded that a party newspaper also has quality, but it is about the issue of diversity of opinion. As long as that's the case, I can't talk about a big throw. Therefore, the glass is not half full, but the glass is clearly half empty. Nevertheless, we are still optimistic that when it comes to promoting local, non-commercial, free radios, the question of promoting new media, especially in relation to online media, also comes to a throw of this government. I say to you, Mr State Secretary, that I am also a small throw right here. I'm just waiting for a throw, for him to come and for you to finally dare him. As long as this work does not exist, it cannot be said in Austria that the measures that have been put in place are sufficient to enable the overall media diversity to be widened. The old problem of Komustria, where it is about independence, the real independence of the CommemAustria, is also a solution. That is why, Mr State Secretary, please continue to work on media promotion! We won't beat you in front of your feet. On the contrary: From us you can expect any support, and you will get it when a successful product looks out at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19145	As the next speaker, Mrs Dr. Bleckmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19163	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It doesn't always have to be a big throw. It is enough to bring about a better, improved law. This could also be positive, and not only the bad things can be seen. For us, it is also a compromise that has come about here, but: Better an improved law than no change at all! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The point is: The funds remain unchanged, as so many funds are not available for other areas. It's not all multiplicity and magnification, as you always like to imagine from the SPÖ. It is important that work is continued – Mr Stoisits has already said that – and that there is an evaluation. In a relatively short time, this law will be evaluated again, and then we will probably meet again at this point and discuss what could be improved. So that means taking one step after another. One point that is particularly important to me is that, under the title 'Quality promotion and future security', there is an improved training of journalists, that there is funding and that more objectivity, transparency and justice are also brought into this area. Ladies and gentlemen! I am looking forward to a continuation of this discussion when the evaluation will be further improved.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19206	Mr Morak, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19225	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me first express my thanks to the two responsible in the clubs, Mr Mag. Molterer and Dr. Bleckmann, for this initiative proposal. You can now talk about it, ladies and gentlemen, whether this is a big or rather a small or perhaps not a throw, I mean: [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A litter!]] We have adapted the possibilities of press promotion to time, to political and media reality in our country. I also believe that something has been done, ladies and gentlemen, and that this is a real improvement in the media. It represents – as some speakers have already noted here – recognition of publicistic achievements, and it is also a confirmation of diversity. In any case, we have also dealt with various problems. The advertising market on the one hand is listed here, on the other hand the increased price of paper and, of course, sales costs. What the level of support has reached – and this has already been done here – it has remained the same, namely, € 13.9 million. The whole thing, as I believe, is a meaningful tool, even if one sees that the focus on quality promotion in the journalistic field has been increased by almost fourfold. In this context, I refer to teaching articles, journalist training, foreign correspondents and reading funding in school. In spite of my clear commitment to press promotion, let me also carry out the following: Press promotion can, will and should not replace entrepreneurial skills; the market cannot and should not be shut down. We all have the negative examples in front of us: ‘AZ’ or ‘New time’. Think of the amounts of funding that have flowed into these two newspapers, and of how they have done anyway. Therefore, once again: Entrepreneurship must not be turned off. It is not quite understandable why leaves that have to be qualified as market masters in their main area of distribution create such a threat scenario with you, Mr. Klubobmann Cap. It is quite amusing when you ask for more money, but on the other hand it is about “eclatant distortion of competition”. – I mean, in connection with the press promotion, this is a slightly shaky dialectic. Mrs Stoisits said that the great throw would have been left out. – Madam honourable Member, remember that we have not only caused a change in the print media sector, but also in the electronic media sector, in the Privatradiogesetz et cetera. Think about the liberalisation of the media market or the promotion of films that has been doubled! Think of the digitization fund of € 7.5 million! Think of the TV film fund of € 7.5 million! I would ask you, Mrs Stoisits, to see this somewhat more differentiated. I believe that the efforts of our Federal Government in this area represent essential improvements to the Republic in relation to media. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Because political motifs have also been spoken of here: Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, the media market is a more difficult and sensitive one. I know very well the difficult relations between politics and the media. And believe me: If we promote the “press” on the one hand and the “standard” on the other, there are no political motives behind it. No one can blame us for having any party-political motivation on what is happening to the “standard” with its government-critical course. In this sense, I believe that this draft, which is available to you here for the vote, can be considered balanced. The reality of the scene is taken into account, and I would like you to be able to agree to this request by the opposition parties, despite your objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19274	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19293	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! You can't just talk about a big throw in this law. It's pretty much what this government has done: not a big throw! [[Abg. Großruck: As a State Secretary, we didn't have a litter at all!]] Therefore, you have obviously also remained true to your motto in this law – and it has become a “throw. ” [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In short, what is not all right with this press promotion: The weekly newspapers are clearly disadvantaged in relation to the daily newspapers. If you spend more than half of your time in the promotion of sales for 15 daily newspapers, while you spend less than half of the distribution promotion for 48 weekly newspapers, you cannot speak of a fair distribution key in this area! However, a special “sugarl” for lawyers is the formulation of § 8 para. 3, in order to ultimately disadvantage the “Salzburger Nachrichten” and the “Kurier. ” It must be broken on the tongue as it was done. Paragraph 3 standardises that the national market-leading daily newspaper is excluded from the promotion to the full; moreover, it is standardised that regional market-leading newspapers are also excluded from it. In those federal states where the national market-leading daily is also regionally market-leading, the second largest daily newspaper is also excluded from a promotion, as measured by the sales situation. This relates exclusively to the “Salzburger Nachrichten” – and of course there is already the suspicion that, because of their reporting in recent months, only this newspaper really wanted to be met. There has already been a great deal of effort to exclude this newspaper from a promotion! This, ladies and gentlemen, is not only unfair, but a real competitive disadvantage for a newspaper that is entitled to try, as a regional newspaper, a relatively objective report on the whole of the federal territory. Inventing a formulation in order to be able to exclude this particular newspaper, one has to think about it for some time until one reaches the “passend”. Again: It just didn't become a good law. And in terms of content, it would be worth noting that media are more than print media. It would also be necessary to start promoting the Internet accordingly, and also to include the Free Radios in a promotion. One would have to look at the media in its entirety – and not just as a print media. This law is not a good law; it disadvantages the weekly newspapers, does not include the mentioned media, namely those who are not print media, and disadvantages quite outlawed a newspaper, nor one that has not deserved it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19338	Mr Lopatka has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19357	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For the crocodiles of the SPÖ, I really lack any understanding. This law – and I will then mention these points – brings clear improvements in three areas that you have missed from the SPÖ in the time when you have had it in your hand to make press promotion lead. First: With this law, we come to transparency. I only remember when you tried to save the “worker’s newspaper” from the SPÖ. At the time, there was the White Paper on press promotion. In this White Paper on press promotion, the annual accounts read: 1.7 billion schilling in press promotion. But if you've done this more precisely, you've noticed that more than 2 billion schillings were actually poured out on press promotion: in the truest sense of the word, because at that time you just pushed 164 million schillings off the SPÖ – without any reason – of the “AZ”. That's the one point! Da_te You stand here with your pointing finger: They were already very cool on the road. I only remind you of the SPÖ that at your time, the chairman of the press promotion commission at that time, Josef Rieler, was at the same time the editor-in-chief of the “New Time” in Styria – this was known as the central body of the Styrian SPÖ. In the nineties – and you hear it correctly – this Josef Rieler has even increased a total of 405 million schillings. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Head: No! There's no such thing as that! That was a social democracy? Go, no!]] This sum of Social Democratic Josef Rieler was higher in a few years than the turnover of the newspaper! - Wants You're doing this kind of press promotion? I regret that here are millions – millions! – have been spent on promotions! – I am glad that this form of press promotion has now come to an end, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Gaál: The “Volksblatt” got the double!]] [[Call the SPÖ: “Volksblatt”! “Volksblatt”!]] The “South-East Day Post” never received these promotions, so it had to be recruited much earlier. [[Further calls at the SPÖ: “Volksblatt”!]] I regret the fact that newspapers in Austria have had to be recruited several times in recent times; but there is a point where funding is no longer acceptable. [[New call at the SPÖ: “Volksblatt”!]] – The “Volksblatt” is a Micky mouse compared to what was possible at the “New Time” and at the “Worker News” I tell you. That's anything but something you can compare. [[Abg. Gaál: You just have to count together! Together!]] The third point I think is very important: We are already able to achieve a positive result with this law, in the quality promotion sector and in the security of the future, although overall the funds remain the same. We have here at least a triple of the funds available in the future, namely for young journalists and also for foreign correspondents, which is also a innovation. Therefore, the law is a forward-looking one and takes God away from party-politically motivated press promotion.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19469	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19513	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I do not know, Mr Lopatka, where you are referring to the fact that what is happening is an objectivation. I believe that if you look at this, you can't say that it's a "threat" but I'd be, if you're talking about the right direction, almost inclined to say, it's the wrong step in the wrong direction – but that would be a withdrawal; in so far as I think it's the wrong step in the right direction. [[Abg. Head: Which is the right direction? The SPÖ?]] Finally, it is absurd to say that this is an improvement. When I look at who really comes to improvements here, these are the “Eisenstadter Kirchenzeitung” with a dispensation, the “Furche” with a fivefold, the “Church Newspaper” in Linz with a quadruple, the “Church IBK” – from 18 to 85, which is also a fivefold – the “Rupertus leaf” – I do not know, but at least has a quadruple, and the “Vorarlberger Kirchenblatt” has a slight increase. This will at least show you your priorities. I believe that overall consideration must also be given to the entire media situation. If one sees this great move, which you have put here – I see almost the spring of Mr. Khol, whom we have always experienced in the past as someone who has almost stretched out with the sword of revenge in the individual exploratory talks – in combination with others of your actions, I think it is really a pitiful situation. And it also fits in with the fact that the ORF – which we don't discuss today on this occasion, but which we also need to look at – is just as much consumed in its quality. And if we see today that you save on the brains of our youth by taking the teachers out of the schools, then we have to say: “Treasure” may be a somewhat harsh word, but in the last consequence, it is nothing else that is floating before you here more or less. It is a disturbing situation in Europe – I would like to tell you that – when we see ourselves here from an international quality, an international standard throughout the reporting process in a very, very embarrassing form. That is why I also welcome the fact that next week in the ORF an event will take place that sets the quality of the messages under a Mr Mück, which almost distorts reality in a way, so that one almost believes that one has to accept the opposite of what is actually presented. That is what I am pleased with this discussion, and I thank all those who have caused this review to take place. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19562	Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19581	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The first call-call and discussion-dual here has shown what it seems to be all about here in the first place: because of the fact that the party or party-related newspapers can get as much out of these funding pots as possible. [[Abg. Eder: There is no more!]] The Committee also raised the question of whether one of these newspapers gets nothing – that was the criticism of the opposition. Then it has been shown that this “nothing” is well over €1 million a year. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not see first and foremost the approach to public support! That is why our approach was to exclude completely the approach of the liberals to party newspapers from this public support. This would also have affected our party newspaper, but I believe that one should not argue for its own sake, but completely abolish it. At least there has been a reduction – this is an advantage – but during this two-year evaluation period this should also be a topic. A second point – and I think this is positive – is that the quality criteria are, of course, still in the foreground, that diversity is also in the foreground, and that in the future, even those newspapers will not be punished, which, within a certain framework, also try to work economically and obtain a corresponding advertising revenue. That is why we naturally agree with the law. However, we consider it only an important step towards further improvement and further development of meaningful press promotion in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19634	The next speaker was Mrs Machne. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19652	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. After what we have just heard about the highest funding of the SPÖ-near press, I am all the more pleased that we decide today to change the press promotion. This new press promotion law takes into account the non-light economic situation of the regional printing media. I think it's a good law. The regional media in particular are strengthened by this, and especially for the not so strong district weekly newspapers and also for the daily newspapers, this law is a step in the right direction. Mr Jarolim, as you have spoken of shattering, I would like to point out that the “KTZ”, the “Kärntner Zeitung”, a SPÖ medium, is also covered by this regulation. [[Abg. Gaál: Just look at the “Volksblatt”!]] - I don't know that. [[Abg. Gaál:... ÖVP newspaper!]] [[Call the ÖVP: That's a good newspaper!]] After the postal fee for subscribers has increased considerably over the last few years, this change in press promotion will also cover some of these additional costs, and I think this is very important. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] For the measures of quality promotion and future security, as well as the promotion of the use of foreign correspondents, for the promotion of the reading of newspapers, especially in schools, for the support of research projects in the field of the press – and this is new, ladies and gentlemen – € 1.18 million will be estimated in 2004, i.e. much more than before, or that has not been done at all. I would therefore like to thank the government, also on behalf of the regions in Austria, for the presentation of this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19713	Next is Mrs Mag. Frieser in word. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19731	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is really cheap for colleagues of the opposition parties to produce themselves here and discredit the new press promotion law in the form of an even greater amount of funding for even more beneficiaries. – Ladies and gentlemen! We too would like to congratulate everyone on even more funding, but in view of the limited resources, various criteria had to be introduced. [[Abg. Eder:... “Salzburger Nachrichten”!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – You know the new regulations very well! They ask themselves here and ask that not only the print media may be promoted, but also the ORF – and Dr. Wittmann also wants to congratulate the Internet! – Please explain to me how and where you want to spend the money! My colleague Lopatka has already said: Her model of press promotion was the promotion of party newspapers. And even these overcrowded promotions, which the “worker newspaper” – in which you, Mr. Broukal, even once started as an editor – and the “NZ” got, even these high – yes highest – promotions could not save these newspapers from the pleite. – This is your model of press promotion! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, I would like to point out one thing: The new Press Promotion Act provides that in the future the funding will no longer be granted by politically dependent persons, but that the press promotion of the Kommunestria will be allocated and that an objective allocation of the funding will be guaranteed there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19796	Mr Broukal came to the point of correcting the matter. – 2 minutes, you know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19818	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Frieser just meant that I had started my journalistic career at the “worker’s newspaper”. – That’s wrong! I didn't work a day of my life at the “worker’s newspaper”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19866	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word will not be desired. [[The sound level in the hall is high.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are now entering the main act of a debate, namely the vote, and I would ask you to limit the conversations, put the newspapers on the page and remember that everyone I see on the phone gets a call for order from me – a warning to Hannes Missethon and others. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 323 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 17. Point Report of the Committee on Sports on the Government Template (207 e.g._Other Organiser Additional Protocol to the Anti-Doping Convention (315, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19929	We now reach the 17th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19953	Mr President. Dear Mr. State Secretary, excuse me! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Gaál: This is an entry!]] Mr. State Secretary! Today is a good day for sports, because not only that we ratify the Additional Protocol to the Anti-Doping Convention today, we will also submit a four-party application to the Anti-Doping Act. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] I think we're on a good way. Thanks to God, the importance of sports is always increasing, and the interest of the people to participate actively in sports also. However, the problems in the field of artificial acceleration of performance are growing, as more and more people are striving for maximum sporting performance which does not fully match their expectations and training performance. This also results in an increasing interest in those aids that are not required in the sports world. Doping is not only harmful to health, doping also undermines the sporty performance comparison. How far non-controls and the many different standards lead, you can best experience the example of the USA again and again. The most serious example is the professional baseball players, in which of 300 athletes 100 were baptized. Also, the duration of the locks and the number of times you are caught is not uniformly regulated in America. Considering that 10 percent of the 6 000 preparations on the market already fall under the dubious “doping” predicate, the implementation of the current anti-doping convention is certainly a very important step in the right direction. The international and also the national sports associations are aware of the brilliance of this issue, and for this reason the anti-doping convention at that time was more than necessary and an essential step. And another step is now taking the form of this Additional Protocol to the Anti-Doping Convention. Especially for a sports country like Austria, which is the venue of many sports competitions, the implementation of this additional protocol is essential. In order to continue to be a venue for sporting competitions, we need this more doping control. Returning to the sports country of Austria, this means that we can continue to be safe in the future to be the venue of sports major events, for example a four-span tour, an ice hockey World Championship 2005 and – for us Salzburger particularly important – a cycling World Championship 2006. Of course, these competitions would not be possible today without the decision of this Additional Protocol. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] These sporting events, which are also heavily supported by the Federal Government, not only provide our country with the opportunity to invest in the development of sports infrastructure, but also provide valuable economic impulses. In this sense, I am pleased that this Additional Protocol will be adopted for the future of sport and for our athletes today. – Live the sport!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20015	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. 4 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20044	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! The decision we are going to take here today is, of course, a decision that is to be supported, because it involves a substantial expansion of the possibilities for persecution in the doping area. There is the possibility for all the signatory countries of the Anti-Doping Convention to carry out controls on other countries as well as to allow the World Anti-Doping Agency to carry out unannounced checks in all its signatory states. The decision should therefore be supported only. It is a shame, of course, that there has not been an anti-doping law in Austria so far. I am glad that we have now found a way to a four-party request, because, of course, it is especially the practicers who have a massive disadvantage that the current situation does not give them legal certainty. There are currently no appeal possibilities in a positive doping test; that is to say, for the sportsman, he has the trade association as the first instance and the anti-doping commission as the second instance, but he has finally granted this anti-doping commission, which is the only public body that is an objective judgment, as the only instance, while an anti-doping code, which is enshrined in the Copenhagen criteria, also an appeal body for the athlete. – At present he should go to the courts, gets right after ten to 15 years, but his sports career is finished at that time. That is why he has nothing to do with such an operation, and it is a pity that Austria is there for more than a year. On the World Anti-Doping Agency's projects, one can only say: That too is to be supported. – A Copenhagen declaration has been issued which essentially signs a code of anti-doping provisions. All countries participating in the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens have to sign this Copenhagen Declaration, otherwise they will not be allowed to participate in the Olympic Games – not the countries, but the trade associations of the countries and the national Olympic Committees. That is to say, it is also ensured that the major states such as China or America, which currently have very little handling of the anti-doping regulations, will ultimately be forced to comply with these rules and also to review athletes before they go to the Olympic Games. Detto is also necessary for our professional associations for winter sports to sign these rules until the next Olympic Games in Turin in 2006 so that our professional associations can send the athletes there. There is, in principle, a positive development with this Additional Protocol, and there is a positive development worldwide. And in principle, it is also positive that we have now come to a motion for a resolution, but this does not mitigate the state's smoothness with regard to the introduction of an anti-doping law. You should have done this law two years ago, you would have given the athletes a great service and you could have it in one way... – Four years ago it was not possible because the WADA had not yet been founded. [[Abg. Donabauer: four years ago...!]] [[Abg. Donabauer: They were State Secretary!]] – But the WADA was not yet established. Dear colleague! The problem is, you don't know yourself. The WADA was founded only in 2002 and is therefore the only reason why it is to look for fairness with this government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You should also get a minimum of information on intermediate calls, which is necessary to make good calls. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20102	Mr Lichtenegger is now speaking to us for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20121	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The fact is, we commissioned an anti-doping law. Of course, this is not so easy, so we are in a pioneering role in Austria, because it is a difficult matter. We are actually members of a private club, which can impose a professional ban on a sportsman. And then there are only a few instances that can help a sportsman. We're going to put this into order, so to speak, and we're going to try to make a really good anti-doping law for Austrian sport. Very briefly to ratification or to the Additional Protocol. The most essential things have already been said. What is the WADA? – This is the World Anti-Doping Agency that almost harmonised the entire anti-doping system worldwide. There are uniform directives, there are also uniform sanctions, because it simply cannot be said that athletes in America who abuse drugs in sport are not penalised for this, but we in Austria or Europe are sometimes severely punished. Thus, justice is introduced for the first time. It is also important that there are quality standards for doping controls or that they are also internationally recognised. A doping check – very briefly to explain – is a massive interference in privacy, because these rulers arrive at eight o'clock on Sunday, ringing and watching you doping control. You also have to predict exactly where you will be – just for information; I, like everyone else – three months in advance each day, every hour. You always have to be reachable. You are really bound by the guidelines as a sportsman. It is often not that easy to say three months in advance, where you will find yourself on which day at which time. But nevertheless: The athletes buy it. It is therefore important that quality standards are introduced here. This is a first step in the right direction and I hope the WADA will also bring with it the success we all want.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20154	Mr Brosz is now speaking for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20172	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The Greens will also agree to this Additional Protocol. We will also contribute to the proposal to develop an anti-doping law in Austria and to this The Council of Ministers shall decide on a proposal from the Commission to the But let me say a few words about doping! In the Committee and now in the discussion, I think that there is always this clear line between clean sports and the area where doping agents are used and the athlete clearly exceeds the border. I think if you look at the top sports and if you see how close the performances are to each other, it becomes clear that all that is still allowed is exploited by the athletes to the border. This is often partly a question of interpretation, which is partly a question of changes in the rules. What was allowed a few years ago is suddenly defined as doping. It is therefore also clear that the boundaries are relatively fluid. One simply has to note that in the form of top-level sport, how media coverage is done, it is also clear that this is being done up to the limits. And one probably has to question something, if one has just seen the cases of the American athletes, where at once ten years later de facto a large part of the American world class, the Olympic winner, has appeared as deaf and clear that there have been positive doping samples that the entire control system is far from as clear and clear as we would have liked. The point is: It's necessary to do something. When you release doping, it completely works out. However, I would call into question the belief that I really have clear boundaries and, so to speak, to be able to separate this picture between clean and non-clean sports. It is probably necessary, at least in the assessment of athletes who come into contact with doping, to simply see that this is the putting out of borders – let us say it that way. I am thinking only of Mr Lichtenegger and of what comes out, even if in his case it was only food supplements that were contaminated. But only the phenomenon that top athletes take high levels of food supplements already shows that it is about getting out limits. No one will believe that these drugs are so healthy that they are taken to a high degree. The question is always: What is allowed? What is allowed? Where's the border crossing? And that is, of course, a limit which is always arbitrary to a certain degree. So: In particular, the accusation to the athletes must be simply reduced. The opening out of borders is system-immanent. This should at least be seen as a sports politician.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20221	Mr Mag. State Secretary has now arrived. Sweitzer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20239	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add a few additions to Mr Wittmann's proposal for an anti-doping law and for the decision-making to be taken here in the House. You know, of course, that the Federal Government was not sparse and also presented a draft that was dealt with in the Sports Committee. However, this draft, which you so urgently call for, is here again. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent report. You know that, and you too did not agree at the time. [[Oh, call on ODP MPs.]] Secondly, the Federal Chancellor's Office or the State Secretary has tried very hard to draw up a detailed proposal for the regulations of doping matter, but this detailed draft with all its regulations was rejected by the Federal Sport Organisation. The government has also tried very hard to fix this manko, but it has not yet been able to do so. We will make another attempt, this time even a two-thirds majority in view, if not even a unanimity. And then this manko will be finally remedied with the help of – hopefully – all the parties. The subject-matter of the Anti-Doping Convention, which is currently to be negotiated, is very important, as all speakers have stressed. There is therefore a clear improvement in the enforcement of doping control measures across borders. It is very important that control staff from other countries in Austria are also allowed to control and that the results are then taken into account across borders. The results of the checks will be provided to the national sports organisations of the country of origin of the athletes. This also provides comprehensive information and a comprehensive transparency. This, I believe, is an essential step towards combating doping. I thank you for today's approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20287	The next speaker is Mrs Mikesch. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20306	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Doping is not a national problem, it is an international one. That is why this international agreement is also needed to tackle this problem. We'll never solve it all anyway. The Anti-Doping Convention is such a means. The Additional Protocol, on whose national effectiveness we vote today, only extends the need for action and places WADA, the International Anti-Doping Agency, on an intergovernmental foundation. It may act independently in the Signatory States in the future. The aim of the Additional Protocol is to increase the planned doping controls with regard to their effectiveness. In the future, checks will be possible by other signatory countries without the need for bilateral agreements. The list of prohibited substances is long and you already have to be chemists, physicians and sports physicists in one to look through it. I made the effort to check out the WADA homepage once. The result was ten long pages of different prohibited substances. As a former top sportswoman, let me say something about sports in general! Sport is an important topic, we also talk a lot about doping. Doping scandals are being built up, triggering international media echo. Enter the English word “doping scandal” in the search engine and you will get just over 14,000 hits. On the other hand, in the word "gold medal", 1.8 million hits are received. When we talk about doping, that's 7.7 prom. Doping is a problem, but none that prevails. But if we are already reporting on sports: It has changed a lot in recent years. The sport has also become faster. Let's be honest. Who can list all bronze medal winners of the last Alpine Ski World Cup? - Hardly one. A bronze medal in Sarajevo was worth gold. We were grateful that there was Jimmy Steiner back then. The pressure of power is increasing. In those sports where there is little technology that decides on victory and defeat, there will be most doping cases such as in athletics. At some point, every record hunt has an end. Every body, including the best-trained athlete, is set limits. If there are no technical aids, only the chemical will help. But I don't want to defend any dopings here. As a former sportswoman I worked at a time when the victory was not all, let me appeal to you: Let's take a look at our own nose, whether as an audience, sponsors and trainers we should not have the spirit of sports in mind again than just the victory! Don't we also have a bit of a debt when athletes resort to banned means? And one thing to conclude: Believe me, a terrifying victory is never worth what is worth an honest fourth place!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20357	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20375	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Much has been said about the anti-doping law. The purpose of this law is to respect the harmonisation, transparency and efficiency of existing agreements and agreements concluded in this area in the future. However, the top priority must be to protect and assist our athletes. Therefore, the results of the checks will be transmitted simultaneously to national sports organisations and the international anti-doping agencies. The contracting parties, i.e. the countries recognise the competence of WADA and other doping control organisations under it for carrying out controls outside competitions. I do not wish to mention that since 2002, there has been an info folder, the anti-doping brochure, published by the Austrian Anti-Doping Committee. Dr. Karl-Heinz Demel, whom we thank most warmly for this support. This brochure is intended to help physicians, pharmaceuticals, active people and caretakers to deal with the doping problem. With this anti-doping brochure, a step was also taken in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen! Conscious that sport should play an important role in the maintenance of health, moral and physical education and the promotion of international understanding, my group will agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20409	The next speaker is Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. 3 minutes speaking time. The speaker is not in the hall. Your speech is lost. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20435	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We shall vote in favour of the Additional Protocol. I am also pleased that, on the basis of an initiative of the SPÖ, a four-party resolution request has been made in order to reach an anti-doping law. We believe that this is absolutely necessary – because there are legal problems in the matter of controls. There are also problems in the effect of positive doping findings associated with blocks of athletes. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is to be regulated in an anti-doping law, but – and I would like to emphasize this very clearly here – we also need to talk about doping in the leisure field. It is shocking which means and how many means are sold in gyms, even in sports associations. I invite you to read the parliamentary answer to the question I received from Mr Grasser, Minister for Finance, on the "Fraud Report 2002 – Drugs and Medicines". It is shocking because, for the first time, it becomes clear to what extent illegal medicinal products, anabolics and contaminated food supplements are ordered. These are ordered electronically. There's the problem of control. The Federal Ministry of Finance is the only Ministry in Austria to observe the websites. It is carefully monitored or monitored which products are offered on the market, which products are permitted and which are not. I miss – and I say this with all clarity – such an observation of the Internet by the Ministry of Health as regards food, medicines and medical devices. Contaminated food supplements, which have repeatedly led to positive doping findings, last this year, damage sportsmen on the one hand, but they also harm the people who in good faith buy food supplements in gyms or at sports associations. The health risks are enormous: In women, this leads to far-reaching damage, to virilization, to testicular shrinking and the like. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to invite you once again, as the proposal put forward by our group on this question has been postponed, that the problem of contaminated food supplements should be raised and that effective control should be introduced here in Austria at last.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20472	Mrs Turkovic-Wendl has now been reported again. She's talking to us for three minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20491	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think one thing is really due in connection with sports today. This is the mention of the most popular Austrian for 25 years. He's celebrating his 50 today. birthday. It's Franz Klammer! [[General condolences.]] Now we can ask ourselves: What does the French have to say that he has instilled himself as a permanent burner in the hearts of the Austrians? His sporting achievements are certainly especially prominent. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The Franz, he can do it!]] His 25 World Cup victories in the descent were previously unobtainable. It has certainly been his way of dealing with colleagues, with the press, and even since then his natural nature, his openness. On Franz, there's everything real! Even though he was measured a circumference of 78 cm in the time of his muscle building, the then so strict “Dopingpapst”, now fourfold doctor, Ludwig Prokop, has never really attached annoyance, and he could never say anything, for the Franz was real. The joy of our sports heroes and the emotion about their achievements remain natural. If today an Eberharder or a Maier ends up with a World Cup victory or a Steffi Count Triumph celebrates over the 800 meters distance or if an Elmar Lightenegger's superperformance shows, then we are the ones who have won. [[spontaneous condolences with representatives of the ÖVP and the liberals]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] All of Austria is proud, and we have, even though sometimes very passive in sports, an euphoric feeling and feel well placed and well represented in the world. That means: It needs to get faster, it needs to get higher, it needs to go on. All sportsmen who are under such pressure today – because they lose if they do not perform the performance, their sponsors, their starting point and their right in the sports world at all – need to see that they somehow achieve this performance, because otherwise we are not satisfied. Therefore: What are you doing? – The one who has the means that everything goes faster, the regeneration and the power building, has won. Ladies and gentlemen! It's been a hard time for supersporters. I know that we can't really get under control of these abuses, but we have to do everything that can help to make the growths not worse today, but to decimize them. I am therefore pleased that this additional protocol to the Anti-Doping Convention will be discussed and “started” here today.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20548	The last speaker here is Mrs Schasching. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20567	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Like all my previous speakers, I am of course also pleased that we are taking a common step here today and that the Additional Protocol to the Anti-Doping Convention will be adopted unanimously. Of course, it is also a milestone for me that we were finally able to agree on taking an anti-doping law together. After all, this is one of several materials that are now reaching a unanimous decision-making process. But it would be a great story if we were not to delay and postpone all the other requests again and again, but to find a common solution in the future. I just remember the club's guidelines, the food supplements, the school and sports. All the applications relating to these materials are still pending and are waiting for a unanimous decision. I invite you to address this together in the future, so to speak, in the Sports Committee, What is not going on in other committees is that we always come to a common denominator for sport. However, I would also like to point out in this anti-doping law and its text that we should pay particular attention to the involvement of the Austrian sports organisations. The involvement of Austrian sport has been defined in the request, and I believe, Mr State Secretary, that – if, for example, we think about materials such as professional sports law – it is a very good way to involve from the outset those directly affected by it. We should also continue this path successfully and therefore strengthen these structures. I therefore call on you, Mr State Secretary, to continue to address this in the future, namely, to strengthen the structures where athletes derive the greatest benefit from it, namely in the associations and associations that urgently need the appropriate resources. They have repeatedly called upon, Mr State Secretary, that, especially for health, for the socialization of young people in broadband sports, so much so that we need more active than inactive people in Austria. You rightly demand all of this. Only: Who does this work? – It’s broadband, it’s the associations. Therefore, they need to be strengthened, so they need the means. But we also need them to implement, for example, the very positive movement campaign that has been launched. It does not help us, even the most beautiful television spot, if those who are to implement it are not involved in the whole campaign. Therefore: If we strengthen the sport, we also strengthen the awareness that the sport needs the appropriate means! I call on you to sit at a table with those responsible as soon as possible in order to make timely provision for the next budget plans. Last point: Women in sports. – We are proud to have the presidency in European Women and Sport now. We've got him in Austria. We also need to do this, and we want it to be implemented in Austria so that women can also be strengthened in sport. Also my cordial invitation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20615	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are now voting on the Committee's request to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 207 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. 18. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (195 D.B._Other Organiser International Convention on the Protection of Plant Breedings of the 2nd International Convention on the Protection of Plant Breedings. ==References====External links== ==References== ==References== March 1991 (266 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20658	We arrive at the 18th. Agenda item. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to keep the sound level lower! I don't hear myself reading anymore. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But we hear you, Mr President.]] There was no oral reporting. Mr Faul was the first to speak. He wants to talk for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20699	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, as we have already explained in detail in the Committee, we reject this government proposal on the protection of plant variety, and why we do not actually see any further requirements for adaptation in relation to the EU protection regulation, which has already been adopted, because we believe these EU regulations are sufficiently determined and ultimately well regulated in these Causas. Minister! We do not stand by it alone, for so many other EU countries have not yet ratified these UPOV assets, countries such as France, Spain, Finland, and seven other small countries, which are situated from their agricultural structure similar to Austria and comparable to us. Only those countries, such as the United Kingdom, Germany, Denmark and Sweden, in which a very strong and multinational seed industry is anchored and which also have a large-scale agricultural structure have a primary interest in this UPOV agreement. In fact, we do not understand your wish, Mr Minister, to emulate these otherwise structured states. But once again, it is significant for you and, above all, for the agricultural policy of the EIA, that, through this legislative proposal, you will also remove the last remains of the so-called farm privilege, which has enabled the smaller and less profitable farms in Austria to multiply their seed itself and free of charge. Once again, they oppose the smaller and medium-sized farmers in Austria by limiting their rights, which were of course and actually acquired, and by imposing higher costs on them. We certainly don't want that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is a weak applause!]] Minister! Especially from my area, the small and medium-sized East Styria, there are many voices of farmers who are against this law. They rightly criticise it and fear that this merger of plant variety protection and patent law prohibits farmers from using their crops free of charge for breeding. Another reason, Minister, to reject this law, is that the aim of the new Plant Variety Protection Act is to create compatibility with patent law, thus creating the basis for preparing the patenting of biotechnological inventions for plants and genes. Minister! We do not want to be your agents if you are going to open door and door through this legislation of the final implementation of patents on plants and animals.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20749	Mr Keussnigg is now speaking for 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20767	Mr President. Federal Minister! The protection of intellectual property in plant breeding is essential for agriculture and forestry. I may also speak briefly to my previous speaker and say to him: The farm privilege is nationally regulated and therefore does not seem to be at risk. Why is the protection of this intellectual property so important to us? – The cultivation of new plants is time-consuming and expensive, while the reproduction after release is often relatively uncomplicated. The importance of plant breeding itself is beyond discussion. New plant varieties are one of the most effective means of promoting food production as a whole. Plant breeding is important for the focus of production on even more unworldly compatibility, and it is important for adapting production to regional, geographical and climatic conditions. The cultivation of new and adapted varieties is also of enormous importance for development cooperation. It is an elementary factor in the fight against hunger on this earth. The international protection of this intellectual property is a very young legal matter. The first international agreement was signed in 1961 and was then revised in relatively rapid succession. This shows how quickly science, research and technology have developed. Keywords for this are genetic engineering and in vitro reproduction. Austria had observer status from the beginning and officially joined in 1994. Meanwhile, the protection of plant breeding has been stable worldwide, through the TRIPs Treaty. Through the WTO Agreement on the Protection of Intellectual Property, this protection applies to all industrialised countries that have joined the WTO. In the meantime, many developing countries have also joined. Because we hear many critical voices in our country and also have strong discussions in particular with regard to the GATS service agreement, we should also mention the positive aspects of such state agreements. The protection of intellectual property in this case is a prerequisite for any commitment, especially in international economic life. I can therefore say to the People's Party that we naturally support this law and will agree to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20807	The next speaker is Dr. Pirklhuber. 4 minutes speaking time. His group's remaining speaking time: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20826	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mr Keussnigg, obviously you have never dealt with seed problems and agricultural rights. Unfortunately, this is a finding I have to make. I can imagine that as a Tyrolean farmer he doesn't have so much to do with seed questions. They are obviously more likely to play in the arable area. That's why you have to put some things right here. Point one: Mr Keussnigg, the farmers' privilege was earlier in the Variety Protection Act, but this has already been eliminated by your group with the Agricultural Law No. 2001/2002. That's the reality! They have taken away from farmers their privilege of continuing to work with the seeds they produce in their own farm, namely their own harvest, as it was farm law and as a matter of course in developing countries. Federal Minister! This UPOV rule is not about securing among indigenous peoples the traditional rights of the rural population, neither in Austria nor internationally, but about securing the power and influence and interests of the seed groups. I am really very disappointed by you, Federal Minister. So far, I have been convinced that you will also be pursuing a new line in this matter, a line that really is in the interest of non-genotechnic production in Austria, which is not prepared to give patent applications for non-inventions, for products found in nature, namely seed, as can be produced in agricultural work, in traditional agricultural work, of course also in modern plant breeding work. This is one of the central problems of this UPOV act, and I would also like to refer to the fact that, so far, it is only 24 countries that have ratified this act. At present, 52 members are currently organised in this international agreement. UPOV – L’Union Internationale pour la Protection des Obtensions Végétales – is an association of plant breeders, founded in 1961. This corresponds to a sui-generis rule in accordance with the TRIPs Agreement and is of course legitimate. We joined the UPOV agreement in 1978. There is now no need for action at all, and therefore, Mr Federal Minister, it is not necessary to ratify this UPOV act, just as France has not yet done, although France has a strong seed industry. This step is therefore completely incomprehensible. This massive intervention into traditional agricultural law is firmly rejected by us! In this context, I would also like to address the current topic of genetically modified plants and the possible approval of a new maize construction next week. Federal Minister! What have you done personally, how have you communicated with the EU Commission in order to prevent the approval of this Bt 11 maize construction that is in place? I would like to ask you, in this case, to represent our interests, namely the interests of rural agriculture in Europe, also in Brussels, because at present all the scientific facts – and those that come from new studies, also from long-term English studies – and also the results of Hungarian studies on genetically modified maize presented yesterday in Vienna show clearly that there are both negative environmental impacts from these constructions and that this poses both environmental risks and environmental risks. It would therefore only be appropriate and appropriate not to allow them to be allowed, but to ensure that non-genotechnic production and therefore also Austrian agriculture have the future. Therefore, we cannot give our consent to this UPOV act.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20883	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20903	Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber, you know very well, I too am not always excited by the Minister, but that the disappointment about this law is so great, I do not quite understand it, because it will not be so bad. You'll see! In view of the fact that a agenda item of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry is still on the agenda today, which is very important, namely equality between women and men in rural areas, I will now refrain from getting closer to this point. We agricultural representatives of the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20931	Now, Mrs. Member of the European Parliament. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20949	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! This agreement deals with the protection of intellectual property, in this case specifically on patent rights. It promises relief for Austrian plant breeding, especially as regards international trade. This is the logical continuation of the plant variety protection agreement, in which agricultural Goliath favours, the opposing Davids, however, speaks of individual farmers as being disadvantaged. When laws in favour of international trade are changed in Austria and the black and blue majority of governments behind it, it is often about privileges for large corporations and disadvantages for small businesses. [[Abg. Scheibner: Go!]] So it is in this case. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This proposal further limits the so-called farmers' privilege. This means that the interests of the large seed groups are more protected than those of the small farmers. The big ones will have fewer problems in future to increase their seeds free of charge, but the small ones will pay for it. [[Abg. Wittauer: What is she talking about?]] Small farmers, which traditionally develop and develop their own crops, are affected by a law that limits them in this development. This will mean a loss of income for many of them. Even if you laugh, you'll see it. It is therefore not generally possible to speak of a profit for Austrian plant breeding. For these reasons we reject the government template from the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21003	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Pröll. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21021	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The recent revision of the UPOV act was necessary in order to allow for an adaptation to the WTO/TRIPs agreement and the accession of supranational organisations at all. This revision therefore takes account of the new technical and economic circumstances. The protection of varieties is strengthened and more clearly structured by these measures. We have in Austria these content adjustments have already been adopted here in the National Council in 2001 and they have been since 1. ==References== There are two protection systems in the European Union – you know – alongside each other, on the one hand, the Community plant variety protection system – Directive 2100/94 on Community plant variety protection, on the other hand our national plant variety protection system under the 2001 Variety Protection Act. Both systems are based on the UPOV Act 1991 and are in conformity with them accordingly. Now to the breeding privilege, because a few remarks have been made about this, which I cannot agree with. By the way, the protection law explicitly lays down the breeding privilege, which excludes the use of a protected variety as a starting product for the breeding of a new variety from the protection of varieties. In other words, for the cultivation of a new variety, any protected variety can be used as a source without the consent of the variety protection holder or breeder. Thus, the breeding progress has been and will be safeguarded accordingly, especially in the sense of the Austrian farmers. The importance of this harmonisation in the field of plant variety protection has also been demonstrated by the parliamentary survey on the Biopatent Directive. On the one hand, there is the patent right, on the other hand there is a very well-functioning system for licenses with the plant variety protection right. From the point of view of agriculture, the protection of intellectual property plays an important role in the cultivation of plant varieties in the form of plant protection rights, and this also plays an important role with and after the decision we are to make here today. The discussion on the implementation of the Biopatent Directive shows how important it is to have a strong right to plant variety protection. UPOV implementation will support and strengthen us accordingly in this way. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the accusation that we are a pioneer here and other countries in Europe and internationally would not understand this: Denmark, Germany, Finland, the Netherlands, Sweden and the United Kingdom have already joined the UPOV Act; Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, as well as Austria, are currently preparing to join the UPOV Act. It cannot be said that we are alone and that the others are not already on this road. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] As far as the question of the authorisation of genetic engineering is concerned, my positioning is well known: I continue to insist that the moratorium must be maintained, because we have not sufficiently solved the question of co-existence at European level from my point of view. I am of course also waiting for the decisions in which we can no longer actively intervene, but I have clearly and clearly shown our political position in the Council of Agriculture Ministers several times. The moratorium should remain in our view as long as the issue of co-existence is not settled.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21073	The next speaker is Mr Sieber. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21091	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Even if you, Mr Pirklhuber, believe that we from Tyrol or Vorarlberg have nothing to do with seeds, I would nevertheless like to allow myself to say something on this subject. The International Convention on the Protection of Plant Breedings must be adapted because the Convention on the Rights of Intellectual Property requires WTO members to protect plant varieties under the patent system or through an effective plant variety protection system. The UPOV Convention provides the only internationally recognised plant variety protection system. The main objective of the UPOV Convention is to grant the breeder of a new plant variety an intellectual property right, to secure and to protect the plant breeder from the sale of the plant varieties by third parties. However, the previous principle of the free use of a protected variety as a starting material for the creation of other varieties remains unaffected. This Agreement therefore lays down the international rules by which countries grant intellectual property rights to individuals or organisations that breed new plant varieties. If there is no adequate protection of intellectual property, new plant varieties may be increased without further delay after release. The breeder will thereby be extremely disadvantaged, but he will bear all the costs of the breeding process. For this reason, the Association States are required to grant the breeder a right to the entire production of seed or plant seed. One important point is that the UPOV leaves it to any state itself to exclude the use of the seed obtained and used in an agricultural holding from the right to breed. This so-called "farmer's privilege" means that a farmer can, on the basis of the seed once purchased, fully and free of charge himself, grow seed as long as he does not place it on the market, but uses it only for his own operation or uses it for exchange. This scheme is therefore so important as otherwise the production and reproduction of protected varieties is no longer permitted without the agreement of the breeder and the farmer must pay the breeding fee for the reproduction of crop for seed purposes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: This statement...!]] Organic diversity in agriculture has been and to a good extent is created precisely by the work of farmers. UPOV implementation helps us to have a strong right to plant variety protection, and promotes the development of new plant varieties for the benefit of the entire society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21134	Next speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21152	Mr President. Minister! Only for clarification: Mr President, you first said that we Greens still have a 7 minute remaining speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21167	That's not true. It's 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21183	So that's not true. I have a lot to say about equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21201	You have 15 minutes. First, there was a confusion with the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21222	Thank you. – Very short, hopefully short and colorful: I have the impression that there is quite a confusion and ambiguity here – especially in the ÖVP Group, which usually turns out to be a place of well-informed circles – because here apples are compared to pears. [[Abg. Grandruck: We are not confused!]] This UPOV directive refers to WIPO, i.e. the organization in the UN that regulates intellectual property rights, while the change – and this has been said to us in a sustainable way – has to do with TRIPs and WTO. This means that we are dealing with quite different, very far-reaching regulations, which we can no longer resolve nationally. I am only telling you as a hint or as a warning, there are already replication processes at the ECJ, where farmers are already being charged. There is in Canada the process of Percy Schmeiser, which is very well known; Percy Schmeiser now even moves before the Supreme Court because he has received a charge from Monsanto, in which it is pointed out that he uses seed that is genetically modified. He contests this and now has a huge process on his neck. I believe that there is an illusion on the part of the ÖVP-Mandatare that different action is being taken in this regard in Austria. In fact, we see no reason to accept what is stated in the statement: “By increasing the granting of plant variety rights, reliefs for Austrian plant breeding are expected, especially in international trade.” Why? – It has not been completed at all in a final way, why this should be a relief. We are already with UPOV, we are already under the 78s regulation, and that is perfectly enough. That is why we will vote against this conclusion by Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21265	The last speaker on this point is Mr Deputies' friend. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21283	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are voting today on the adoption of the International Plant Protection Convention and the International Convention for the Protection of Plant Breeding. Both revisions were necessary to adapt to international agreements. The law on plant variety protection will be strengthened and made clearer and the EU can set up a common system of protection rights. In the age of internationalisation and globalisation there is a particularly high risk of the introduction by international trade of organisms harmful to plants and plant products. Our common objective must therefore be to limit the spread and introduction of harmful organisms, and that is only if we all take one step in Europe. This is particularly important to me as a farmer! I therefore do not understand at all why the SPÖ and the Greens are against it. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: We're not either!]] The Austrian plant breeders are very successful with their products and varieties nationally and internationally. From this point of view, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Austrian seed growers for producing truly successful breeding that are internationally recognized! This agreement also serves to promote appropriate control measures against harmful organisms, and I can only support it. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: No, that's a difference!]] I have already done so and it has already been explained here that it is about adaptations that are necessary to take account of developments in international trade and to include new technical and economic circumstances in the context of plant breeding. The aim of the revision is also to ensure that more and more plant variety rights can be granted and that there are, in particular, facilitations for domestic producers in international trade. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] It is a priority objective of the Austrian Federal Government to facilitate international trade and thus strengthen the Austrian economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21339	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. A final word is not wanted by the rapporteur. That is why we are voting on the Committee's request to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 195 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I now turn to the Committee's request that the present State Treaty be applied within the meaning of Article 50(a) of the Treaty. 2 B-VG by passed laws to be complied with. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. 19. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on motion for a resolution 51/A(E) by Mr Heidemarie Rest-Hinterseer, colleagues and colleagues on equality between women and men in rural areas (267 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21392	We are now entering the 19th century. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mikesch has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. The Group's remaining speaking time: 18 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21416	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Life in the countryside means working in the countryside. In this sense, I would like to thank all the political groups very much for having succeeded in drawing up a joint motion for a resolution on equal opportunities for men and women in rural areas and today for the decision-making process. The issue of equal opportunities is a diverse one – such as that of rural areas. Today I will link these two issues together and explore them together. Rural areas have changed dramatically in recent years. In some regions it has become an economic factor which is in direct competition with the agglomerations of agriculture. It's located in the centre. In addition, the desire of many people to live in the green. We see this on the basis of the development of our capital St. Pölten: a minus of population, hardly any economic growth. On the other hand, the surrounding area: Operating areas such as Böheimkirchen and Loosdorf tree trees, in Hürm a very creative, interesting, cross-communal operating area is created. Followed by the population development in the surrounding area of St. Pölten: a plus of 7 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Nevertheless, or precisely because of this, this new situation brings a new field of tension to women in particular. What are the problems facing women in rural areas? Mobility: The structure of public transport in particular in the country is not very significant. In the research report “Inhibitions of Women’s Employment” the women surveyed from the regions have been assessed as an enormous factor. In addition, the often applied part-time as an opportunity to reconcile work and family for commuting women does not represent an alternative. If you work four hours a day and commute three hours: Can you imagine what “attractive” is? Every fifth woman is part-time employed. Therefore, I believe that the most important point of the work is on the ground, because proximity is quality of life! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Often – and this evidence of studies – it is the girls who perform their education in the area. However, an extended range of education is mainly available in the agglomeration centres, and we see that more than 80 percent of girls in rural regions are entering traditional women's occupations. The ratio is worse in the country than in the city. Strengthening self-confidence must be a central concern. This has to be started in folk school, and it has to go so far that girls also practice “untypical” professions for women. We need more on-site training and training. The development shows us: The greater the distance from the agglomerations, the lower the average income of women. Higher education will improve this situation. Especially in rural areas, the compatibility of family and profession is more difficult. Child care facilities are extended and strengthened, opening hours are more flexible, especially considering that in agriculture around 41 percent of farms and in the trade around 30 percent of women's businesses are run. [[Deconstratetive appeal to the Greens]] But the new rural structure, as I have just mentioned it, also offers enormous opportunities. The strengthening of the regions and the creation of rural areas create new jobs for women, a new local market and therefore more quality of life for all of us. A motto that needs to take place in our heads is: Working in the countryside means living in the countryside. Where jobs are nearby, quality of life increases and the burden on the environment is reduced by transport. If we strengthen awareness of the local economy, people buy back in the place, thus strengthening the place and securing jobs. These people bring themselves into the community and into the associations; the community lives. The rural area will continue to deal with us for a long time. I see today's proposal as a visible sign of the willingness of all parties, in a new picture of the country. to work on a new, self-confident image of women with full equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21506	The next speaker is Mrs Walther. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. The Group's remaining speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21525	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests! I am very pleased that today's motion for a resolution as a four-party agreement has been reached in the Committee on Agriculture. Equal opportunities in rural areas means two things: Improved working and living conditions especially for women who have to fight even more in the country than in the urban area against women-specific disadvantages, and second, equal opportunities for all: both for men and women in rural areas compared to urban conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let us take a look at the situation of people in rural areas. 58 percent of Austrians live in cities, 42 percent in rural areas. But about 70 percent of all vulnerable people live on the land. Poverty affects farmers as well as other rural and rural people. Poverty affects many older people, but especially women: poorly trained women, single parents, pensioners. The problems of women in rural areas include too many aspects to list them all. It is particularly the lack of flexible and well-paid jobs, the lack of opportunity to reach jobs quickly in order to link work, family and ancillary work in a small farm. Women are more dependent on public transport. First, mobility gives women and children access to health, to offices, education and the workplace. For this reason, and also for environmental reasons, we will receive a durable and as dense as possible public transport. We also create childcare facilities, kindergartens, all day schools or at least schools with afternoon care! We are trying to create new jobs in all areas: in trade, in the host sector, but also in the agricultural by-products sector: Holidays at the farm, farm shops or buses. Not only the countries, but also the Federal Government, will have to take money into their hands, loosen money. However, it will also be able to rely on EU grants, such as those for rural development. - So, let's get it on!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21571	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21589	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Equal opportunities is a fundamental pillar of free movement policy. The fact that equal opportunities are being lived among us has also shown how the rest of the speaking time has now been fairly shared among us, so that it has been time to talk to the women's sector. The measures for equal opportunities really need to be considered specifically if we are to take a close look at the rural and urban areas. The fact that regional priorities have always been a topic for us liberals clearly shows the possibility that there is now also childcare money for farmers. Sufficient education is a basis for a good opportunity, and the share of women who have more than compulsory education has been increased thanks to God. However, the level of education needs to be considered critically if one is to distinguish between urban and rural regions. Especially in rural areas with an agricultural rate of more than 15 percent, six out of ten women have only compulsory education. The level of education is therefore very much dependent on the accessibility of training institutions, and it is therefore important and necessary to support specific support and training programmes for women in rural areas. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The development of new information technologies is particularly important to ensure that information is really available on site and that Tele-Working is also possible. The government has already put in place positive measures here. I remember, for example, the possibility of broadband internet access through the broadband offensive of Vice-Cancellor Gorbach. The Leader Plus programme is an essential element of policy for rural areas, and it takes particular account of equal opportunities. In the event of any disadvantage, the funding shall be withdrawn or not approved. Ladies and gentlemen! However, financial resources and measures do not benefit at all if awareness-building is not made good enough. The traditional role distribution is still very strong in rural areas. Mayors and councillors in rural areas often cannot start very much with gender-specific policies. I am just telling you one example of the constituent municipal council meeting in my home community in which the mayor called into question the Women's Committee, which should be re-established, because he meant: Gender mainstreaming is just a task of land and government, and we don't need that in our city! I therefore call on all colleagues who are also active in local policy to make them more aware of equal opportunities in their own communities.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21641	Mrs Rest-Hinterseer is now speaking to us for 4 minutes. Other speaking time of the Greens: 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21659	Mr President. Minister! Let me first put it a little bit as this motion for a resolution has come to pass, partly because the vote will now be somewhat complicated. Some time ago, we introduced a whole range of questions to the Federal Minister on the subject of "opportunity of women in rural areas". Among other things, a very interesting study has also been made in a response to questions: “The levelling-oriented regional development” jointly created by the Geography Institute and by the Bundesanstalt für Miningernfragen and presented in July, so to speak, is just right for our project. I am therefore referring to our project, because in the meantime we had already agreed with the women of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on a cross-group basis. Ms Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner has your colleague Dipl.-Ing. Your Cheuch ordered you to go here as a woman. He's done this pretty impeccable. – Actually, you have to say that Mr Wittauer did so in the end. In this debate in the Committee on Agriculture, we have been able to clarify some important things. Some members were not quite clear what gender mainstreaming really means. One has even made his voting behaviour dependent on me explaining it to him. After reading it first, as is stated in the EU directives, which at least happened to this colleague again very incomprehensible, I tried with a story of a big event in India, the first farmers' conference in the world, which was also an old farmer in the gender mainstreaming workshop. We thought it would be difficult to explain to this old man the term “gener mainstreaming”. But he was very ashamed of us, and he immediately began to explain the matter to us. [[Abg. Neudeck: It's not hard either!]] He agreed with his wife very early, my dear colleague, that gender mainstreaming emphasizes that it is between men and women as it is between the eyes in the face. It is impossible that the two eyes are uneven that they are at an uneven level, because then one could only perceive the world very roughly. [[Abg. Neudeck: Medically, that's not true!]] That is why it is very useful for women and men to act at the same level and have equal rights. Let me add a little bit to the various interpretations. In the etymological dictionary of the German language is under sex, which is the translation of gender, still “generation, type and origin”. Only much later has the term “gender” appeared in the sense of assignment to a sex of sexual significance. In English, the explanation is much easier because gender means social gender. This also means that one is more determined by his social sex than one would assume for the first time. In the study I have already quoted, it is very nice to say that there are different positions or approaches to explanation. There is, for example, the pattern of gender equality, which leads to the claim that the gender difference is only artificially generated. Many followers of this theory assume that women must be supported so that they can, as it were, achieve equality with the men. – But there is also the position of gender difference, where, interestingly, most mayors meet in the villages and the feminists. In fact, they say that women and men are different and that cannot be discussed. They have different characteristics, abilities and potentials, and it is therefore also useful to promote them differently. The most sympathetic thing to me is actually the position of gender diversity, which assumes that this binary de- or-thinking is somewhat obsolete. I always think of this famous saying with us in the country: "Either-or, Eunuch or Vota." But there are many other possibilities in between. Taking this diversity seriously would also mean that people can and should develop not according to their gender, but according to their abilities, skills and talents. All those who are parents themselves or live with children know that children do not always behave so typically male or female, which in particular in the country causes real stress, when for example, the boys cry out loud or the girls take a big break in the kindergarten. It is therefore intended to open the way for people to develop after that, where they really have their priorities. This is a focus for gender mainstreaming. Mr Wattaul has drawn my attention to this: Why equality only in the country? That's necessary everywhere! – Mr Wattaul, my guess is that the question of women needs to be resolved in the country, and then she can be solved everywhere.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21720	The next speaker is Mrs Schefermair. 3 minutes speaking time. The Group's remaining speaking time: 14 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21738	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) One of the most interesting social theorists, Esping-Andersen, is developing a kind of modernisation policy of the dynamic worlds of life. He coined the simple sentence: Social security begins with babies. – It is clear that this responsibility for maintaining society comes to women for biological reasons. We are also happy to assume this responsibility for women. However, we call for recognition and equal treatment. As a member of a government-responsible party, I recognize myself as a family and to create the urgently needed measures and framework conditions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is about simplifying the burden on every woman in our country and supporting them in their tasks. Many support programmes have already been successfully initiated. But we should go one step further. I would particularly like to address the issue of equal opportunities in rural areas today, in particular those of farmers. Because of my work as a trainer, I am confronted with many good examples and would like to bring only one of them here. Renate – she is married, has a farm with her husband, they have three children. Renate has discovered her artistic talent and is now very successful as a painter and calligrapher. She has implemented her tailor-made concept of success. I am aware that this is a special or lucky case, but I would like to continue to work to ensure that there is a successful management of family and profession for all women as well as men. Therefore, I support the inclusion of the special family requirements in the planning of all legal measures, such as tax law, education, social and labour market activities, but also family-related childcare, promotion of training and support for women as opinion-makers and, above all, as decision-makers, are the cornerstones of a successful family policy as we understand it from the ÖVP. We farmers have long been committed to equal opportunities and achieved much in rural areas. Already 30 percent of farms are run by women. Now before Christmas for all men a book tip: ‘The clumps are no longer yielding.’
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21787	Next word: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 3 minutes speaking time. The Group's remaining speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21805	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! I too am pleased about this four-party proposal. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] This proposal is very important, and it is urgently needed, especially when looking at the situation of women. Women are still very disadvantaged in many areas of daily life, and especially in rural areas, women are very, very difficult to get out of and leave traditional role models. Women are often hardly represented in decision-making bodies – but this is not because women like to be in the second row, because women like to take responsibility and they are also interested in taking part. However, it is also necessary to create framework conditions for women to decide and to decide. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Women have worse opportunities in the labour market, especially in rural areas, and they are blatantly disadvantaged in incomes. I looked at that in my federal state of Lower Austria. Lower Austria is already only the sixth worst place in the state ranking, and women are again disadvantaged. Female employees earn 45 percent less than their male colleagues, and female workers earn 40 percent less. And I think that if we are really so important and serious about the independence of women and if we want to counteract the threat of poverty from women in particular, then we must change this situation. Lip confessions are just too few! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Self-determined life, ladies and gentlemen, depends, among other things, on financial independence. In my opinion, with this situation in mind, the many minor employment conditions and the part-time jobs in which women are located are particularly important. At least 72 percent of all minor employment conditions of women are exercised, and this cannot be satisfactory for us. I am convinced that very many women do not voluntarily accept these jobs, but they only take these jobs so that they have work at all. Such service conditions, however, have enormous effects on the entire life of women. It is an important task of a dedicated women's policy to highlight these points. Many women are already affected by poverty during their working life despite work, and at the end of a women's life there is often poverty of old age. The policy of this Federal Government does not do any good, but it even tightens this situation: for example, with the pension reduction reform and with the liberalisation of cargo opening times. That is why I hope, Minister, that this proposal will bear real fruit and not just remain on the paper – paper is well known to be patient – but that equality between women and men can actually be lived. I would like to close with a quote from Alice Schwarzer, who has today's birthday: Women are not content with half the sky, they want half the world!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21880	Mr Gahr is now in the row. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21899	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is, of course, an honor for me as a man to stand on the stage today on the subject of equal opportunities for women and men in rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The issue is that we accept the task of recalling and stimulating this issue and then creating this compensation through projects and initiatives. What we should not strive for is a change of roles between women and men, we should not be forced to congratulate ourselves, and we should avoid unfair charges. So this is all about: Where can we show disadvantages? Where can we create better conditions? There are currently disadvantages specifically for women in rural areas: whether there is too little demand in childcare, on the one hand, but on the other hand the costs are too high, but there are also disadvantages in mobility and disadvantages in the supply of part-time jobs. My previous speakers have already said a lot, and I would like to briefly point out here in three examples that there are also initiatives on the part of the EU at present, especially for women in rural development. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: And previous speakers!]] It is primarily about achieving equality for women and anchoring them in all European political bodies, and about promoting equal opportunities through the Structural Funds. It is here that our Commissioner Franz Fischler, who is very active in rural development, as I believe, has set out a great deal of initiatives. Yesterday evening in Vienna, an initiative for rural areas entitled “Childcare at the Farm” was presented. Several organisations have launched the project “Childcare at the farm” across the board, a total of twelve organisations, with a view to providing additional income for farmers as mothers of the day, but also providing care for children in a positive environment. An initiative that our state councillor Elisabeth Zanon launched in Tyrol, a perhaps also funny initiative: “Mander s’isch Zeit!” You can say that as a Tyrolean. I can make it that way. [[The speaker rejects a poster to the microphone at the speaker's desk, on which Andreas Hofer is depicted with a grandchild on his arm.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So we in politics must set goals, but politics must also be a model, and as men we may need to rethink there and there and see things from the point of view of women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21954	The next speaker was Mr Franz-Joseph Huainigg. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21978	Estimated President! Minister! High house! Sorry They are my tired and a little tired voice, but after an intensive European “year of disabled people”, this can already happen. But it doesn't happen that often. Allow me to make a brief personal preliminary remark. I am now working here in the House for a year. It was a very exciting, difficult, but also very instructive time for me. Above all, I have learned that no politician has fallen from heaven – and has not even landed in the wheelchair. I have learned a lot about this, and I would also like to thank my fellow Members, the members of the government, but also the speakers of the disabled, the teachers of the other political groups for their good cooperation on the subject. This shows that disability policy can also be made excessive. [[General condolences.]] On this request: The situation of women in rural areas The area is really very difficult. They suffer from multiple strains such as work, child care, but also family care is a major challenge. In order to bring all of this together, support is needed. It is very welcome that especially in rural areas, family members who are disabled are cared for at home and not simply moved to nursing homes. This is the first step we have taken this year with €10 million, which ensures that a caregiver can also go on a holiday and get it financed, or that, if he fails due to illness, he gets support. But that's by far not enough, it's a first drop on the hot stone. Further support measures are needed: the development of support organisations, welfare organisations, advice on aids, the learning of care and lifting techniques and also the hours of care at home. Only in this way can caregivers really be supported in a sustainable way. I believe that this proposal is also appropriate to make the problems visible and to contribute to the development of these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22021	Now, as the last speaker, Mrs Binder is speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22039	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My thesis is that, without women, there is no development in rural areas, because women in rural areas, those living in rural areas, play an important role in social life, especially in agricultural farms and also in the social life of rural people. But the conditions, ladies and gentlemen who find women, are very different and very diverse, and the women in rural areas, the women who live and work in the country, have many obstacles, but also with borders, borders which are sometimes insurmountable. This is very often related to rigid role models or clichés, but also to different regional conditions, such as lack of childcare, which has already been mentioned. My previous speaker spoke of an action that could support women, even though child care is offered at the farm. I think it could be a measure, but you have to be very careful that women are not overburdened by the diversity of their activities at the farm. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, there is also a lack of public transport. I am thinking of tomorrow's meeting, the decisions taken tomorrow, decisions that certainly do not help women in rural areas to gain more mobility. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, because it is constantly stretched!]] And I am thinking of the absence of actually qualified jobs, which leads to women in rural areas in particular having a low income. A study by the Bundesanstalt für Miningernfragen entitled "Equalification-oriented Regional Development" offers a comprehensive analysis as well as very concrete proposals and recommendations. The aim is and must be to improve the situation, the lives of women in rural areas, the country, equal opportunities and prospects for more equality and equality. The EU Council's call to take account of the equality component for both sexes must also be encouraged and implemented in Austria, because the role of women must be strengthened and therefore we all have to be concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! Women in rural areas need influence, power and can thereby, with the necessary tool, implement their ideas and thus make an indispensable contribution to the further development of rural areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22082	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur obviously does not wish a final word. We are therefore voting on the Committee's request to take note of its report 267 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 267 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 32.) 20. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (311, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law establishing the Federal Railway Act 1992, the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act, the High Performance Track Act, the Federal Act establishing a “Brenner Eisenbahn GmbH”, the Federal Carriers Act and the Prisoner Reimbursement Act as well as the Law on the Reorganisation of the Service Rights of the Austrian Federal Railways and their legal status. (Bundesbahnstructural Structure Act 2003) (340 d.b.) 21. Point Report and request of the Transport Committee on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Act, which regulates the acceptance of liability for bonds, loans and other loans to be received by the Austrian Federal Railways Company at the ‘EUROFIMA’ (European Society for the Financing of Railway Materials) (341, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22155	We now come to the points 20 and 21 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Request for adjournment
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22180	I have a request from the honourable Member. Molterer, Schieder, Scheibner, Ölllinger, the negotiations on these two points according to § 73 para. 3 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the agreement at the Presidential Conference, it is foreseen that these items will be on the agenda tomorrow as points 1 and 2. In the agenda distributed in the house for tomorrow, these points are also represented as points 1 and 2. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request for a postponement to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. Negotiations on the items referred to are therefore postponed. 22. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (233 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Transport of Animals on the Road (TGSt) (342 and 342 d.b.) 23. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr Madeleine Petrovic, colleagues on measures to protect animals in transport (343 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22235	We shall now proceed to points 22 and 23 of the agenda, on which the debate will also be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Request for adjournment
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22259	There is also a request from honourable Members on these two points. Molterer, Peter Schieder, Herbert Scheibnerand Karl Ollingervor, Negotiations on these points according to § 73 para. 3 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure. These points will also be negotiated as points 3 and 4 tomorrow, and they will also be on the agenda of the National Council for tomorrow. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this amendment to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Negotiations on the items referred to are therefore postponed. Votes on agenda items 5 to 8
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22314	Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have a very complicated voting process. We are now voting on the postponed agenda items 5 to 8, where we did not have the Croquis for the vote and the amendment request in such a timely manner that the political groups could study these requests. That is the case now. That is, we are now voting on Agenda items 5 to 8. We first reach the vote on the 2003 Draft Growth and Location Act in 324 of the Supplements. On this request, Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues, tabled an amendment or amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Dr Josef Capvor. I will therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the aforementioned request or amendment, according to the classification of the draft law, and then on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. We come to a separate vote on Article 1 § 6 para. 1 and Article 3 Z 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. The Members of Parliament, Dr. Stummvoll and Bucher, have tabled an amendment concerning Article 3 Z2. I am looking for a sign for those Members who agree to this. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 3(3) and (4), as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The Members of Parliament, Dr. Stummvoll, Bucher, colleagues, have tabled an additional request concerning the heading of Article 4. I would ask those Members who are voting in favour of a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 4(1) to (4), as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this. – This is accepted by a majority. Members of Parliament Dr. Stummvoll, Bucher, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment concerning the rate of introduction of Article 4 Z 5. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 4 Z 5 on Rule VI, paragraphs 24 to 34, Article 4, points 6 to 9 and paragraph 10 (a) to (f) and points 11 and 12 of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendments tabled by Members, with a silent, book-booking, colleagues and others. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. The Members of Parliament, Dr. Stummvoll, Bucher, Members of Parliament, have tabled an additional proposal which contains Article 4 Z 5 and the insertion of a new Z 13 and Article II in Article 4. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for it to be a sign. – This is the majority and is therefore accepted. We shall now proceed to the same separate vote of Rule 5, 7, 8 and 9 as the Committee's report. I ask those members of the House who stand for it to be a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Bucher, Mr Members. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Sburny, colleagues, on the inadequate provision of funds for research and development. I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Sburny, fellow Members, concerning the evaluation of the effects of tax benefits on research and development in two to three years' time. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Now we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the VAT law, in 325 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the European Parliament have tabled an amendment. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Members. When I consent, I seek a sign of confirmation. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. I shall now vote on the draft Federal Act amending the Employment Insurance Act and the Pension Scheme Act, together with the title and receipt in 276 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Mr Maier, if you call, it is difficult to make the votes right. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority in third reading. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in question, amending Annex II to the Convention on the Examination and Designation of Noble Metal Items in 295 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by the Financial Committee within the meaning of Article 49(2). 2 B-VG that the embodiment of this State contract in the French language version must be made by the fact that it is used for public consultation with the Federal Ministry of Finance. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – In turn, this has been unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22523	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 294/A to 302/A have been tabled. Question No 1164/J to 1195/J has also been received. Finally, a question, 16/JPR, by Mr Dr Pilz, colleagues, has been sent to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 4. ==References====External links== The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting is closed.
