ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00026_d7e515	I'll open the 26th. Meeting of the National Council. As prevented, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00026_d7e543	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00026_d7e778	Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00026_d7e798	I announce that consensus has been brought about in the following way: There is agreement that one speaker per political group will speak on each agenda with a maximum of 5 minutes of speaking time. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then this is defined in consensus. 1. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 133/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Dr Heinz Fischer, Herbert Scheibner, Dr Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues on a federal law on financial and administrative support for the Austrian Convention (114 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00026_d7e841	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. There is no need for oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate, each speaking time being 5 minutes. I give the floor to Mr Dr. Khol as the first speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00026_d7e871	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is unusual for the President to come to the speaker's desk here. However, I have reserved myself to speak from the speaker's desk on important and fundamental issues. We have an important and fundamental issue on the agenda today, which can and will be of vital importance to our community. This is the question of the Austrian Convention for the creation of a renewed federal constitution. Hiezu, I can tell the House that there is a four-party proposal, which is supported by the leaders of the four parliamentary parties and is to be financed and thus made possible by the joint Austrian Convention for a renewed federal constitution. This is an important project, ladies and gentlemen, according to the model of the Europe Convention, which ends these days, and through the Treaty texts scattered across Europe, the European Union's inconspicuous, clear and legible constitution is to be renewed. A similar effort is being made by the Austrian Convention. We have a similar constitutional situation in Austria: Hundreds of constitutional provisions, many secondary laws, an unclear catalogue of fundamental rights and a lot of constitutional law, which is no longer necessary or which many call obsolete. Hans Klecatsky referred to the Austrian constitution as a ruin. Some have called them Torso. Anyway, we know: This Constitution has established itself in its principles, has made peace, law and freedom, social rule of law, and corporate law. the state and democracy in this country, and we want to adhere to these principles of the federal constitution. Important forces have joined forces to enable this Austrian Convention: all four parliamentary parties, federal government, countries and municipalities. With 70 delegates in 18 months, chaired by the President of the Court of Auditors, Franz Fiedler, he will draw up a renewed constitution: precise, complete, contemporary, taking into account the European Union and our position as a Member State, with hopefully a clear catalogue of fundamental rights, a renewed, powerful control, simple procedures and an understandable language. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that at a time when there has been a great deal of conflict in this House, we are thus setting a clearly visible sign of a basic consensus that exists in this House and beyond this House! [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP, the Freeman and the Deputies of the SPÖ.]] I would like to thank all the negotiators and make the following amendment concerning the implementation clause: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00026_d7e962	The amendment is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00026_d7e984	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I agree on many points with Mr President-in-Office of the Council, including the fact that the key elements of the Kelsen Constitution have proved to be successful and that the Austrian Constitution is indeed better than its reputation at times. Nevertheless, we have to note that there is a great need for action to adapt the Constitution to modern challenges, which is especially necessary because in the past the courage for fundamental changes sometimes did not exist. I believe, however, that we should point out from the outset that the objective of this State Convention is not only, but also, in terms of savings. This is an important part, but a state reform must be more than an administrative reform. The Constitution should form a legal housing for the citizens in which they can feel comfortable. This includes a strengthened proximity to the citizen, the guarantee of the social state, a strengthening of the protection of individuals, a transparency of administration, the abolition of official secrecy and effective control. It will not be done with the task analysis of the State alone. I believe that at the head of this Austrian Convention there must be a fundamental discussion of state tasks and objectives. It would be desirable if we could reach consensus on a catalogue of state objectives, which should ultimately be a model for our state. We Socialists have a high claim to this Austrian Convention and believe that we should not be satisfied with pieces, but from the outset we should have the right to carry out a fundamental, far-reaching reform of our constitution; and if we have the impression that there is nothing to agree on, then we should not be content with pieces. It is therefore very important that the culture of consensus in this Convention should be given priority from the outset as a leading principle. We want to discuss new ideas with people who have so far been active outside the legislative bodies, and there should be the possibility to address their proposals without prejudice. The basic prerequisite for this is also the effort to achieve consensus. It is about convincing others, but it is also convincing. Only then, I think, can this Convention achieve results that really take our demands into account. We want to present in this Convention fundamental new concepts for central areas of the state. It is a task-oriented distribution of legislative competences, it is a reform of enforcement with the fundamental requirement of greater regionalisation – which does not always mean federalisation – and it is above all a matter of introducing a universal two-level principle. I believe that we are all aware that we cannot abolish any of the four existing levels – neither community, nor district, country or federal government – but it would be a great deal if we were to have a maximum of two levels in our state for each task. That would, I think, lead to a better execution. In this context, it is also about the reorganisation of the so-called expensive and expensive areas such as the security regions, the educational regions and the health regions, where greater regionalisation can also contribute to cost savings. I do not think we should press ahead with a reform of the principle of legality, so that a new division of tasks between legislative and executive positions can take place. It is very important that these ideas focus on transparency at all levels as well as on a reform of legal protection both in jurisdiction and in public law. A reform of the financial constitution is very central when savings are on the agenda: If you are able to buy and determine expenditure, it will also provide revenue in the future. We have a great opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, with this Convention. This great opportunity will be taken for Austria, and the interest of our country and the Republic will be on this issue of party policy, Then there will also be a good result!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1053	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1071	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of the work of the Constitutional Convention, for which we are creating the framework conditions today, one should express the hope – and in this sense I also understood my two previous speakers – that the deliberations in this Convention can succeed in a very large, perhaps even an epochal reorganisation of our constitutional structure. And I say: it can succeed because this will require some conditions: Above all – and that was said in the direction of us as parliamentarians and politicians – of course those who, in this Constitutional Convention, have our day-to-day, party-political ideas – not the basic policy, but the day-political and party-political ideas – once in a second series and try, just as President Fierce has announced, to find a consensus here, a consensus in probably very difficult, in very comprehensive materials; all of us can assume that at least in far-reaching areas of this work will keep the media interest in bounds, and none of those who will probably be very busy here for many hours, days and weeks will be able to make themselves known to the great laurels in the public. But I think it is important to take this responsibility to check for the first time after many years, if not decades, whether this constitutional structure – and not only the Federal Constitutional Act, but the Federal Constitution of the Republic of Austria as a whole – corresponds to what is a modern state of the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website We will, and I am giving Mr Gusenbauer's right, have to go into a task critique in particular by considering from the outset: What are the tasks of a modern state by public authorities? – There may be, or probably, many tasks to question, but perhaps also some of the tasks that will be done. We will ask ourselves the question: How do we manage that the public hand, the entire administrative structure, becomes a citizen's service provider and is not perpetuated further that it is reversed that the citizen is in reality the service provider of the state? We will have to consider how to improve the instruments of democracy, including direct democracy: Questions of electoral right, also of instruments such as popular desire, referendum. We will – and this will be particularly important – also have to deal with the questions of control, perhaps also with the powers this House has in the area of control rights vis-à-vis the administration, especially when it comes to inculcating the Supreme Courts and strengthening their work, their powers of control – especially where constitutional laws are concerned to check their legality in the overall context. There will be a lot of work to be done here, even if it is about reuniting the constitutional law as a whole. You know, we have often criticized that there are many people in the House with a comfortable two-thirds majority. has raised basic legal matters in the constitutional rank only to disable the control of the Constitutional Court. We will also have to review these materials and return to the true content in the framework of the legal order. So a challenge, a real challenge – not only to the many participants of this convention, but also to everyone else who will address these important questions of constitutional law in the future! But I am hopeful that if we observe these principles here in the House, too, we can really succeed in creating a new, an epochal, a future-oriented constitutional work – and that would be more than day-politically determining the headlines.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1133	Mrs Glawischnig. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1151	Mr President. High house! The Greens, of course, welcome the project of a major constitutional reform. However, we would also like to give some warnings today, and we will unfortunately not be able to agree to the law today. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's how it starts!]] I would like to take up some of the criticisms that have already begun with the institution, and I would also like to justify precisely the latest developments that have motivated us to reject this week or today. We believe that there is a difference between an EU Constitution, an EU Convention and an Austrian Constitutional Reform: The word “convention” comes from the French language and has been formed as a name for a legislative assembly that develops basic things in an environment where there is no constitutional legislator yet. [[Abg. Großruck: From Latin: “convenire”: “come together ”! Mr President, is it true?]] This is the case at European level. In Austria we have a Constitutional Legislator and we would have liked the National Council to send this Constitutional Reform on a very clear parliamentary basis on a journey – and that this is not described as an institution sui generis within the framework of a founding committee, convened by the Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have a constitutional legislator, we have a procedure. Because of this kind of constitution, the whole thing has already started wrong for us. The second concerns the tasks. – Some of these proposals, which are on the table, are completely undisputed, according to the analysis of state tasks, a comprehensive criticism of tasks, the reorganisation of competences – since Austria’s accession to the EU urgently necessary! – the review of the structure of state action, the basic features of the financial constitution – that has already been addressed – the merger of the one who collects, and the one who also issues, as well as a new constitutional text, because there are over a thousand provisions and constitutional laws, which are not, as in other countries, jointly deposited in an incorporated constitutional instrument, but completely scattered. What is especially important to us and is very important is an updated catalogue of fundamental rights – we need it! – but also to review the directly democratic instruments. We just had a popular desire again, we had quite a lot of popular desire in Austria, almost all remained without success. We therefore need to think urgently about the further design and development of direct democratic participation opportunities for citizens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We also believe that modernising the right to vote with a view to increased participation is important and, last but not least, a strengthening of parliamentary control of the legislative bodies. [[Abg. Scheibner: Not a good start! No good start!]] It must be borne in mind that the current control rights are still largely constructed as majority rights, which can only be explained historically, since at that time Parliament was the counterpart to the monarch, in which the majority control rights were attached. They are no longer in the current constitution. What often comes in connection with the tasks – and I want to warn against taking it as the exclusive guideline for such a large, modern state discussion – are only labels such as streamlining, efficiency, saving and slimming the state! In this context, rates have also fallen such as: More muscles, less fat! . I do not know what this is supposed to mean by constitutional policy, and I would warn against accepting a repressive state action as an objective. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need a fundamental discussion: What should be the tasks of the State? At what level are they to be handled? And: How are they to be fulfilled? And yet: Making a modern state law to transform Austrian federalism into more participation – these are other tasks, not exclusively: slim state and all that towards efficiency and streamlining! In conclusion: We didn't know this week what organizational, administrative design the office, the entire Convention should have. And again, there is a gap which has already occurred in the composition of the Convention, namely a very strong emphasis on the executive and a far too low emphasis on the legislative system, which is now particularly evident in the fact that the office staff are to be sent out of the ministries only and cannot be made available through an objective tender. That was the final point for us in this situation, which has already begun with the setting up of a founding committee missing from my point of view in a "sui generis" process of the Federal Chancellor and not of Parliament. We will continue to try to bring in our ideas constructively. But unfortunately it is not possible for us today to give our consent to the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1252	There is no further statement of words, nor can they be available in accordance with the agreement. I'll close the debate. We come to the votes in connection with the submission 114 of the supplements, the Khol, the Fischer, the Scheibner and the Glavischnig motion. First of all, I will vote on the amendment tabled by Khol, Fischer and Scheibner, which refers to § 3 of the draft law, and then will vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this amendment to give a sign in this regard. – The amendment to § 3 was adopted by a majority. I shall now vote on the remaining parts of the draft and the title and receipt of the Committee's report and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give a sign. – I note that this was also decided by a majority. That concludes the second reading and comes to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading to give a sign on this point. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. ==References== The next item is the agenda for the sitting. I'm asking you to take a seat again. 2. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 147/A by Dr Michael Spindelegger, Herbert Scheibner, Mag. Kurt Gaßner, Mag. Terezija Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Employment of Parliamentary Employees (Parliament Staff Act) (115 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1318	We'll get to the 2nd immediately. Agenda item. A statement by the rapporteur is not available to me, so I am going into the debate immediately. Nor is there any statement of speech, so we shall be voting immediately. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 115 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this proposal to give a sign. I note that this proposal was unanimously adopted at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I may ask that the Ladies and gentlemen, who also agree to the proposal at third reading, show this by a sign. This proposal was also adopted unanimously at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-18-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1364	There is a written request from 20 Members to read the official minutes of this meeting so that Agenda items 1 and 2 or the minutes on it may be deemed approved at the end of the meeting, allowing for the immediate completion of the decisions of the National Council. In this sense, I read the Official Protocol, which will be shorter than that previously read, as follows: ‘TO point 1: Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 133/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Dr Heinz Fischer, Herbert Scheibner, Dr Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues on a federal law on financial and administrative support for the Austrian Convention (114 of Supplements) Member of Parliament Dr. Khol, Dr. Fischer, Scheibner, Members of Parliament, tabled the amendment Supplement 1/1. The vote will take place at The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 114 of the Supplements, shall be adopted by a majority vote (V, S, F) in second and third reading, taking into account the amendment proposal.’ As regards item 2 of the agenda, it shall be recorded in the minutes: ‘TO point 2: Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 147/A by Mr Spindelegger, Mr Herbert Scheibner, Mr Mag. Kurt Gaßner, Mag. Terezija Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Employment of Parliamentary Employees (Parliament Staff Act) (115 of Supplements) The vote will take place at The draft law shall be adopted unanimously in accordance with the proposal in 115 of the second and third reading supplements.’ I am now asking whether objections to this version of the Official Protocol, as it has just been read, are raised. – There are no objections. This applies to the official minutes relating to agenda items 1 and 2 within the meaning of section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for 8. It will be called up in writing on July 2003. This meeting is closed.
