ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3074	The meeting was opened. The official protocols of 34. Meeting of 22. ==References====External links== Meeting of 23. In October 2003, the Parliament's Directorate remained disquieted and undisputed. As prevented, Deputies Mag. Sima. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3105	The Federal Chancellor has received the communication on the resolution of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, according to which the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State from 12 to 14. ==References====External links== Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3123	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mrs. Susanne Wegscheider has renounced her mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Dr. Peter Sonnbergerin. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the author, Mr Jakob Auer, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3153	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3169	I promise, God help me!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3184	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] The Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor have announced their intention to make statements on the topic “The Growth Initiative of the Federal Government”. These are on the agenda as points 1 and 2. For this purpose I have raised objections to which I will come back. There is a request by five Members to refer to these statements in accordance with § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a joint debate. The statements and the subsequent debate will take place as well as the debate on objections following the current hour. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen to stop the murmuring and to take place because in a few seconds the nation will turn its headlights on us. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3228	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Where does Austrian foreign policy remain?” First of all, Mr. Dr. Cap. His speaking time is 10 minutes. – Mr Klubobmann, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3253	Mr President. High house! This is one of the rare ways of dealing with foreign policy in principle since it is no longer usual for the foreign policy report to be negotiated and discussed in plenary. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is also quite strange here in the House. That is why we are taking advantage of today's opportunity to deal in principle with the question of where foreign policy actually remains, because, in our view, it is hardly recognizable and hardly present. The Foreign Minister will then have the opportunity to disarm this if she does so at all. Since one hears and sees so little of her, one has to stick to literature as one of the orientation points. Therefore, I have the book of Federal Minister Ferrero-Waldner: “Course in a changed world” not only for preparation, but because I like reading. Under the chapter “The Smile I Mean” she has formulated an interesting thought, and she writes on page 43: “We often do not deliberately think to end what consequences our actions can have for others, because we prefer not to be burdened with them or because it could affect our efficiency if we deal too much with the fate of other people.” This is a very interesting guiding principle that has been expressed here, and I think that will probably be the guiding principle for her political action, otherwise she would not have written it. And here we come to the points. As we know, there will be no ratification and enlargement of the European Union on today's agenda. We've moved this a couple of weeks. This will have its reasons, perhaps also, for the conciliation procedure between the Council and the European Parliament to take place on the transit issue at a later date, if not by chance the head of state of Carinthia has been in this debate with the Vetoceule. What's supposed to help is obscene. That is one of the thoughts you put on another side in this book, where on page 288 you believe that the candidate countries, the neighbours, are almost our new old partners, with whom we would have almost as many votes in the EU as the three Great, Germany, France and Great Britain. Apart from that, if you already have this concept – how am I supposed to say? – in this benevolent way, as Alfred Worm has formulated, track where a little bit of the Habsburg concept can be read: the old chandeliers unite to march against Brussels, which is really more than dubious and about which one could discuss, then I have to ask you: Have you actually considered what signal will be given to the former crowning countries – to those who have now successfully applied for accession to the European Union – if we are now simply moving this question away from the agenda, just like any other item on the agenda, at another time, so signal that this is not so important to us at all, and the foreign minister will not lose a word on it again? Well, please, answer us the following questions: What about the fact that this extension is not so important so that it can be moved by a few weeks? What do you say about this symbolism? And what do you even say about marching against Berlin, against Paris and against London, with Czech Prime Minister Špidla, according to Salzburger Nachrichten, dated 14. The EU should not, in fact, be made up of blocks arising from geopolitical interests. I do not want to disintegrate Europe into several small alliances. They seem to want that. Where is the benefit for Austria?, to ask. Where do you think of Austria here? Or do you not want to deal with the fate of Austria and other people and the consequences as described on page 43 of your book? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: A great advertising for a great book!]] Here we come to the next point. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has taken the path to Rome to be presented there once again in the transit question. Dear Silvio!, was probably the occasion. Dear Wolfgang!, was the answer. And then: Forza, forza, Wolfgang, we are going our own way in Italy in the transit question. Mrs. Foreign Minister! We have looked at how often you have actually expressed yourself on the transit question. [[Abg. It's too little!]] - Yeah, too little. That's right! In fact, since December 2001, as a foreign minister, they have been commenting only six times on transit problems. In 2003 only a public opinion on the question of transit – a question of life for Austria, as we have had to recognise again in recent days, by the way bubbling by the Federal Government and by four ministers, in particular in the department. But is it not a task for the Foreign Minister to develop diplomatic relations, even there, to establish a lobby to solve this question for Austria and in the interests of Austria? Mrs. Minister, was this just a single statement worth your attention in 2003? – That seems to have had no importance for you. It seems more important – as a result of the request of the Federal Council of Albrecht Konecny – to spend approximately € 317 000 on photos alone, so that you can photograph all your activities that do not have this relevance for Austria once. [[Abg. Grossruck: Professor Albrecht Konecny!]] Kiloweise, stacked photos: Ferrero da, Ferrero there, Ferrero da, Ferrero there, and photograph all that. I wonder, What did this look like for Austria? What photographers have looked out, we now know: 317 000 €! That was your answer to Federal Councillor Konecny. But what has happened to Austria because of your activity? Here I come to the next point – you should concentrate –: [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Where has the anti-atom lobby been built in the European context, Mrs Foreign Minister? We know that this is a very important security issue for us as far as the surrounding nuclear power plants are concerned. You have indicated that you are seeking an EURATOM revision conference. What have you done and achieved in this area? I have to tell you, after today's state of affairs, nothing has actually come out of it. That is unfortunate, and this also shows what respect you have for Austria and what ear to borrow from it. In the end, they are the sign of this country. They must ensure that our foreign policy position becomes another. But she didn't turn out to be another one. I have to tell you that the result is really very poor! Another point, Mrs Minister for Foreign Affairs: We all know the economic situation in which we are all in. Under the Italian Presidency, efforts were made to launch a growth initiative. Tired for it, we have only recently been able to read the data on it. Where Your contribution as a foreign minister on this question? And it would have been important if the EU had been co-financed by the Brenner Base Tunnel, by the expansion of the Westbahn, at the Vienna-Ödenburg axis. It is again about the very crucial interests of Austria. And I must say that you are not at the heart of your policy, and that is really unfortunate for this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not at last!]] Mrs. Foreign Minister! We could continue to discuss the question of the basic orientation of foreign policy. I am thinking only of the policy in the Iraq question, where you have sat between two chairs and shone through particular positionlessness. That must be said, if we had been a true friend of America, then we would have warned America of this Iraq adventure, just as public opinion is now making this ever stronger in the United States. But where is the security gain for Austria? Where has something really been achieved and really done in the sum of your foreign policy activities for Austria? I hope you can give us a truly truthful and clear answer here in plenary. On page 3 of your book is just: “The diplomat should... never say the untruth if possible.” So you're saying, Never! Mrs. Foreign Minister, please describe this ‘as far as possible’. When do you choose to say the untruth, and when do you choose not to say the untruth? What is meant by the word “as far as possible ” that the afterworld on page 3 in your epoch is concerned? This is a pit for everyone to read. You could quote other ways of life from this book. A enriching of our literature. Mrs Foreign Minister, we are waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3358	Ms Benita Ferrero-Waldner spoke on a preliminary opinion. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3380	Mr President. High house! I am in favour of an foreign policy – I thank you for being able to talk about it – which is clearly represented by Austrian interests abroad in particular. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, I also support an external policy for humanity, for human rights, for building trust and for ensuring reliability. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Let's look back. When I was a foreign minister on 4 May. In May 2000, I was called upon to combat the really unfair sanctions that the European Union has raised against Austria. And I was asked to do so and I also did it to present the Austrian reality and to show that what was misrepresented in the media is totally unrealistic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It's a democratic country, a humanitarian country. In the meantime, confidence has been restored with all the countries of the world, including Israel, through the resumption and normalization of relations, and I am delighted about this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, EU enlargement is the core project of Austrian foreign policy, which is stability and peace policy, but of course also for our economy. I think we have negotiated very well, because here you have to weigh both interest, Austrian interests and the interests of the partners. The speakers of the partner countries have seen how well the Austrian position has been evaluated here as well. As an example, I would like to address the question of the free movement of workers. This applies to a seven-year transitional period, as well as to some sectors in the field of services. I think that was very important. Today even take Countries are entitled to this transitional period, which was not for that at the time, such as Finland, France and even Spain. Imagine that! I think we worked very well towards change. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They address two issues which, of course, were very important. One is transit and the other is anti-atomic policy. I have to say: The transit is actually a very thorny topic, you all know it. I have worked intensively with my colleagues at all levels to preserve these essential Austrian interests. It's all about me and it's never about me whether I was very strong in the press. You can do a lot of things very effectively in the background. If you look at how much we could approach the positions in the Transport Council, you realize that we played a role there. However, we must say that it is very unfortunate how the European Parliament behaves. I am thinking, above all, of the opinion of June 2003 and of the serious deterioration that has taken place. You know, yesterday evening, the Conciliation Committee discussed the question of transit. Unfortunately, no agreement has yet been reached, but I hope that we can continue in the direction of the closing of the shoulder, which has been achieved in the Federal Council in the framework of the resolution, because I think this also shows that we can stand together in difficult times. I'm telling you, this is important for a country. I would like to invite you once again to carry out this until the last conciliation committee, because the European Parliament, in particular, should take care of the protection of the European population and the protection of the Austrian population. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] So I hope that it will go in the direction of the solution of the Transport Council of 28 May. ==References== - That was a delicate topic. The second very delicate issue is, of course, anti-atomic policy. Here I would like to say that a great deal of preliminary work was needed for the Melker Treaty and for the Brussels agreement, which the Federal Chancellor was finally able to conclude for the security interests of the Austrians, both by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment. I think we have done a very good preliminary work to enable this conclusion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, we would want the zero variant. Two weeks ago in Freistadt, when I met colleagues from Svoboda, I once again pointed this out very clearly, but you all know the Czech position. The second is: Also a special Intergovernmental Conference for a new EURATOM Treaty is, of course, one of the essential positions now in the Intergovernmental Conference, but I only remind you that, unfortunately, nothing was done by your own Members at the European Convention. I work with some anti-atomic countries, such as Ireland and Greece. Unfortunately, there are very few who represent our position. You know that. Ladies and gentlemen! In safeguarding Austrian interests, of course, one must have visions and far-sighted views. And such a concept with a far-sighted view is the regional partnership. I tell you, that is very important, because of course we need to bring common interests together with the immediate neighbours. It does not matter whether it is a matter of day-to-day concern, such as the question of towing, or whether it is fundamental concerns, such as the question of a Commissioner per country with voting rights, in which we are responsible. Yesterday the Federal Chancellor was as First at Berlusconi in Rome, who of course knows very well that Austria has a leading position in this regard. Faith You're telling me: Whoever seeks alliances only when it becomes tricky, he comes too late! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As far as Europe's new constitution is concerned, we are only negotiating, ladies and gentlemen, those 5 percent of the Convention's draft, which was either not good enough or where something was left open, because 95 percent have already been negotiated. I think the Federal Chancellor and I will continue with the same care and also with that, I would say, company negotiating in the negotiations to get a good result at the end, a result that is better for us than the Convention result. I'll tell you one thing: Only a Union dominated by no one, only a Union in which no one dominates, is a good Union for all citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today, important foreign policy decisions are being made in the European Union, i.e. for Europe, but also for the whole world. And there Austria has a very weighty voice. I am now one of the veterans in foreign policy – and I will be heard. This applies to the Middle East, the Balkans, Afghanistan and Iran. But this also applies to countries such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo. You should know this, even if it is not always visible. But it's especially up to you if you don't know exactly enough. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They say we're not bringing anything into the economy. Foreign policy is of course also foreign economic policy, ladies and gentlemen. Together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, we and myself have made a very important contribution. I would like to mention the following figures: We have a budget deficit of only 0.1 percent in relation to an EU average of 1.9 percent. Real economic growth in Austria is 1.4% and the EU average is 0.9%. Austria has one of the lowest inflation rates. How do you think this is coming from? – This also comes from a successful foreign economic policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] We were export winners last year. For the first time since 1912, we have a positive trade balance with an export surplus of over €300 million. This is not self-evident, but it is only if you promote and stand behind it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] A refocused example of this is my recent trip to China, where I had a more than 50-member economic delegation. I have to tell you: Only in this way can one continue to work with a great power of the future. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: How's the Panda bear?]] But I am also part of my foreign policy on humanity and human rights. Remember that every seven seconds a child dies of malnutrition or hunger, that after this current hour 500 children will have died. [[Abg. May. Worm: Volxtheater!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's not the point!]] That is why, I must say, has always been an important concern. And I don't talk a lot, I handle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I renewed the EZA in 2002, I finally have the opportunity to increase the funds from the beginning of the next year to 2006. And we have created a new implementing organisation. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Talk time!]] But I would also like to say to you: Of course, the United Nations is still important to us. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Talk time! There's an agreement!]] - I'll be right there. Again: I stand for an foreign policy which first sees the interests of the Austrians in the world, but which, of course, also has a strong voice in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3572	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants of the current hour must not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Spindelegger was the first speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3600	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the face of an ÖBB strike that is taking place today, the question arises why the SPÖ is using the current hour to view the Foreign Minister as a target. There is a clear answer to this: The elections next year are precipitating their shadows. And the SPÖ remains true to its tradition. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Is she a candidate?]] Although the Federal Minister has not yet been nominated as a candidate for the position as President of the Federal Republic of Germany, you are already starting to adapt her, according to the motto: “Something will already hang!” This is your tradition, ladies and gentlemen, which we despise and reject! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They also do the bill without the host. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] We have an excellent foreign minister who is popular in foreign and domestic countries. The Austrians appreciate it because it is precisely what foreign policy should be. Mr Cap has in itself lost no word on foreign policy, which does not surprise me, because, ladies and gentlemen: What should Austrian foreign policy be like today? I shall prove to you, in a few sentences, how this foreign policy should be and how the foreign minister will live up to it. On one point, the Federal Minister himself mentioned: Austrian foreign policy means representing Austrian interests abroad, ladies and gentlemen! That makes them in an excellent way. – You always dream that Austria is to interfere and communicate in any conflict in the world. No, ladies and gentlemen! The first task is to represent Austrian interests abroad. The Federal Minister has taken the evidence of this in recent years, and she can take him back at any time. In the question of sanctions against Austria – which is only three years behind – it has fought like a lion for the interests of Austria, ladies and gentlemen! That's not forgotten! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Where was the SPÖ?]] In this context, it is also not forgotten what role you played by the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen! They were on the side of the Sanctioners. The Austrians do not forget this in this context either! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today it is about representing Austrian interests in the EU Constitution. The foreign minister is fighting for every country – today or future member – to be represented in every institution. [[Abg. May. Worm: Transit!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a central issue not only for us, but for all the small and medium-sized countries of the European Union. The Federal Chancellor started yesterday on behalf of many states, with a large country, with Italy, to discuss this question. This is Austrian foreign policy with representation of our interests, ladies and gentlemen! This can easily be proved. So far, you have made a statement on this, which says, we actually understand the others and not the Austrians. – That is absolutely incomprehensible to me. We want every country, including Austria, to have a Commissioner in the Commission. We will work with everything we can offer. Ladies and gentlemen! What else is Austrian foreign policy to be? – It is intended to represent Austria abroad in such a way that sympathy comes to us that we are heard. Let me give you an example where our foreign minister has appeared somewhere in the world and has not made an excellent figure! They couldn't call anyone. There's none either. On the contrary: She is the interlocutor of Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the United Nations. It has managed to welcome the Russian Foreign Minister to Austria a few weeks ago for a bilateral visit. She has access to Colin Powell, the American Foreign Minister. And she was in China. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is a wide range that proves: This is foreign policy on the scale of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What you have contributed to this point is that Mr Gusenbauer has become Vice-President of the Socialist International. Whether this brings Austria forward, ladies and gentlemen, I can very well doubt. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: He's not quite close, the boy!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place the role of Mrs Foreign Minister in the search for partners in the centre. To find a partnership between many countries and Austria in a future Central Europe is the Benita Ferrero-Waldner brand. She is an excellent foreign minister, she meets these Austrian requirements, the representation of Austrian interests abroad in an excellent way, ladies and gentlemen! She's an excellent representative of our country. That doesn't change your attempts to adapt them. You won't succeed!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3723	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3741	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! High house! I am not one of those who are looking for confrontation at any price, as you know, I am not for black-and-white times, and I am also often trying to see not only the negative but also the positive among political opponents, but also that only quite in foreign policy, but also I am convinced that this current hour is urgently necessary – out of concern for Austrian foreign policy due to shortcomings and mistakes in some areas. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: But!]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Here you go!]] I cannot follow Mr Spindelegger's argument, which was to be understood here, because, as Mrs Minister for Foreign Affairs is perhaps a candidate, we must no longer talk about foreign policy in this House. To do this, I have to say: We can be directly glad that not all government members were called candidates, otherwise we could put a glass crash over the government, bow down and go home. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] No, we do not want to do that because it is important to talk about foreign policy. Firstly, foreign policy must be present and visible. There must be a clear line on key issues of foreign policy, there must be principles, for example when it comes to war. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Your policy of the middle – I quote your statement from 24. Feb: We always knew the middle was right! – was a serious foreign policy mistake. In the middle, that's what they say, it's good. One even speaks very often in our language of “golden middle. ” It was all right for you to work towards a common attitude of all Europeans, but there was no means of dealing with this issue. There was no intervening in the decision to carry out either the error of the Bush Administration or to confess to the legitimacy of the United Nations either because of supposed fidelity to the United States. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] A state like Austria must fight with all its forces for the rule of the right also at international level. He can be more moderate in his choice of words than the great ones, but in his attitude he must be clear. Unfortunately, this was not the case in the Iraq war! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Secondly, foreign policy – which has been said correctly – must show commitment, initiatives and create a network of friends for one's own country. If this goes wrong, you usually notice it only when you have problems when you need friends and support. We are now experiencing this in Euratom and in the transit question. We are isolated, and we also owe it to failure in foreign policy. The strategy of looking for partners in Europe – in itself a proper consideration – has been set up with the regional partnership and with the attempt to create groups of young people within the framework of the Con­vention and with regard to the European Constitution too badly and in the implementation. Why not now?, benevolent kind, Habsburg Nostalgie: These were the most mild opinions by politicians from neighbouring countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] The attempt to strengthen us through partnership in Europe has unfortunately been realized in such a way that it has weakened us in the final billing. [[Abg. Steibl: But this is already very far down!]] Thirdly, a modern foreign policy is not just a matter of policy, it understands the state as a whole. It covers the entire government, Parliament, opposition, NGOs, representatives of interests and civil society as well. Other countries are looking very closely at whether a country's foreign policy represents all these groups, i.e. the whole state, or whether it is just a matter of resort policy. The stronger, the better a foreign policy represents the whole state, the stronger it is in its effect. What happens in Austria? – It is not communicated with Parliament on all issues, the opposition is not involved, the Strategic Partnership is just an example of this. [[Abg. Scheibner: Talk time!]] We were informed about the development policy, but we could not talk about the details. [[Abg. Scheibner: Talk time!]] We are deprived of the participation in the extension of operations. – Foreign policy must include all, must be run together, only then will it succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3855	The next honourable Member is Mr Scheibner. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3873	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Member of the Arbitrator! I fully agree with your principles on an important good, dynamic foreign policy that you have outlined here. They have expressed their support for clear positions, for the creation of a network of friends to enforce the interests of their own country, and for the greatest possible consensus in foreign policy. All this is wonderful! I believe that this Federal Government, with this foreign minister, fulfils precisely those positions you are calling for here. But let's look back into the past, because it should also be about showing up alternatives that I had to miss from you. But it is not only about foreign policy, but unfortunately it is also about the Federal Presidential election campaign. How about you when you made foreign policy with your German Chancellors? What about these positions of principle that you have correctly described here? Where were the clear positions in foreign policy? Have you really forgotten – we have not forgotten – how you have responded to the freedom movements of the former Eastern Bloc States when it came to supporting these movements? Instead, your Federal Chancellor celebrated with heads of state such as Honecker and Czech Communists at the end of the 1980s and drank sect and champagne. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] When it came to taking a clear position regarding the Balkans and supporting Slovenia and Croatia in their liberation movements towards the Yugoslav Communists, your Chancellor said: For us, Belgrade and Yugoslavia are contact persons and not Slovenia and Croatia! – Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, were these the right positions? – I mean, that was the wrong direction in foreign policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Let us remember what you have done when it came to bringing an end to this murder and banishment of military measures after 200 000 or 300 000 deaths in the former Yugoslavia, when diplomacy has not used anything to put an end to this murder and banishment. You have been responsible for the biggest blamage in foreign policy because Austria has blocked the airspace for international action to free Kosovo and to end these murders and these displacements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] That was the clear positioning you had to answer at the time! I would like to tell you about the sanctions, Mr Schieder, because you said we needed a network of friends for the interests of Austria: Where was your network of friends in the European Union and in the Socialist International at the time of sanctions? At that time, the European Union primarily had socialist Heads of State and Government. How did you use your network to support Austrian interests? – They have been drinking champagne with the Sanctionaries and have been pleased to see that they have been put to the ground by unfair means against a democratically elected government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] That's how you used your network – to the detriment of Austrian interests! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Because you have also brought the transit on the tape, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, and the free infrastructure and transport ministers who are really heroic about the interests of Austria in Brussels, I must ask you: Why did you not negotiate a follow-up to the transit agreement at a time when we were not yet a member of the European Union and therefore had a hard, good negotiating position? Having to do this She misses it, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: There's another one! Learn history!]] So don't act like you know everything better. We don't have as short a memory as you might wish. We know exactly what alternatives you brought – these were the wrong alternatives for Austria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rada]] This federal government with this foreign minister brings the right alternatives to what you might want for Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we need an active, dynamic foreign policy within the European Union, through which the interests of Austria are represented – and that is what we expect, Mrs Foreign Minister, even when it comes to helping to break through human rights standards such as the Beneš decrees and AVNOJ provisions. This may not be pleasant, perhaps it only affects a small group in Austria, a group that is unfortunately becoming smaller and smaller, but I think that human rights are indivisible, as are the interests of Austrians, no matter how large the group of those concerned. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, has a role at international level, it can form the bridge between the different countries of the world, especially those in crisis, and Europe. The Austrian foreign policy is in the hands of the Federal Government and this Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3964	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e3982	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If my previous speaker says that the Austrian foreign policy in the hands of the foreign minister is well removed, I have to ask why the foreign minister is not more prepared to discuss foreign policy with us here in Parliament. This time, the SPÖ had to invite us in the current hour – and the Minister would like to thank her for being able to talk to us and to us. Mrs. Minister! We would have liked to have a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs or its Subcommittee on Development policy in autumn, but unfortunately: The Foreign Minister could only call us an appointment, and nothing else, and on this one it was not possible to discuss it. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Ms. Lunacek, her travel calendar is densely filled, as we know!]] This is very bad, Mrs Minister, because it would be urgent to discuss foreign policy on the basis of specific points. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Let me go a little closer on three of the points you have mentioned. They have said that enlargement is the core project of Austrian foreign policy. – I definitely agree with you. Fortunately, it is so far that – unfortunately not today, but only in three weeks – we will ratify the agreement on this subject. But you have not answered the present-day presenter, Mr Cap, when he asked you, Mrs Bundesminister, the question: Why have you not been committed to the fact that this issue is on the agenda today, so that Austria is actually at the very top of those who are finally ratifying this peace project for Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Spindelegger.]] Why, against the parliamentary agreements, in three weeks? – Mrs Minister, you have not given us the answer; perhaps you will still tell us. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is Parliament's case!]] Secondly, the strategic partnership which you have introduced and which has now been reaffirmed, has now been called ‘regional partnership’. Yes, it is important to work with the neighbours, but it is also important to seek cooperation with other countries. But what are you doing for the border regions? Is there finally a strategy of this federal government for the labour market or employment policy in these border regions? [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: transitional periods! The best!]] No, Mrs. Minister, there is no such thing! Yes, the transitional periods: Seven years you've been through. [[Call:You wouldn't have enforced anything.]] Seven years – and now you are not even ready to Hungary, which is already waiting for finally proposals from Austria to come as from 1. May 2004 with quotas for certain areas can also make a little better, so that this is not possible only in seven years. [[Abg. Scheibner: Of course you know that again!]] Nothing you do, there are no suggestions! That's missing for this border area. There is no employment, a labour market strategy to actually strengthen this border area for people and to shape it from the labour market policy in such a way that people no longer need to be afraid. Not I say that you are out of action, but this was said by Mr Mitterlehner in August in the “Standard”: “The border area, which used to be a disadvantage, is now an advantage. You have to use it. Now, when you look at it, you’ll get problems.” – You watch out for nothing! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Very right!]] This government doesn't do anything there! – These are facts! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Another point: Mrs Minister, you stress the importance of human rights. – No question, we agree on this: Human rights are a very necessary aspect of foreign policy. They have also written a curriculum on human rights education. Important, necessary, but with regard to the human rights of Austrians abroad, you measure with two measures, Mrs Minister! I remember the “Volxtheater Caravans” in Genoa – people you didn’t say that you had to see what happened to them, and you had to get them out of prison. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Perfect action!]] It has required the protest of the Greens and many NGOs that you have become active in this matter, Mrs. Minister. You should've acted there right now! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, an Austrian police officer who was accused of a crime in Kosovo was taken out of there by night and fog. [[Abg. Scheibner: You wanted to leave that there, didn't you?]] He's been sentenced now. – You can see: They measure human rights by two measures! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Should we have left him there?]] Another area: EU President and Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi praised Putin and his Chechen policy. Where was your protest against it when the EU Council President, the friendly government, as you said, under Berlusconi, the friend of Chancellor Schüssel, said that the Chechen policy of Russia was okay? Why didn't you protest loud? – Mrs Minister, this is a two-dimensional trade fair on the human rights issue! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One last: the UN reform, the UN policy at all. In connection with the Iraq war, colleagues have already said – and I can only fully sign this – that the path of the middle of the Iraq war for Austria was not right. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] On the topic of UN reform: Why is there Kofi? Annan's expert committee not a single Austrian, not a single Austrian? Where are the great Austrians? They're not there! I think, Mrs Minister, it is also a mistake of your foreign policy that Austria is no longer represented here in the UN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e4178	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e4196	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Spindelegger rejected the criticism of Mr Cap quite clearly and clearly, because the following line is recognizable: A successful Federal Minister should be adapted in view of the forthcoming elections in the near future. That this is not a coincidence, the whole House, since Mr Amon has quoted from your election strategy paper, in which the Foreign Minister is mentioned by name, indicating that she needs to be adapted to have a chance with the Austrian voters. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Hörbiger! Christiane Hörbiger!]] - That's not it! That's a bad party tactic game! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It seems to me to be much more relevant to analyse the questions raised by the undisputed recognized foreign politician Peter Schieder. He said: Foreign policy must “be present and visible”. – I read many newspapers every day, not only Austrian but also other Europeans, I meet many people in Europe, former ministerial colleagues and diplomats, and I can say: In the last decades, Austrian foreign policy has never had such a significance as it is now – starting from a situation that must be described as simply anything else! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry, go, stop!]] Let's blend back! Yes, it was true that for the first time three years ago, Austria has been on its own for the first time, that even our partners in the EU have brought sanctions against us, and that it has turned and turned into a position in which we are now spokespersons of a 16-country strong group within the EU, is really a master achievement of diplomacy for which our foreign minister is responsible. We can only congratulate you on this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Arbitrator also said: “There must be a clear line on key issues of foreign policy.” – I think that is a legitimate demand. That's where the question arises: What has happened in Austrian foreign policy? – Yes, we have faced the others in the sanction time with a very clear line. Have we been successful? - Yes. Not only has a normalization of the situation occurred, but there have also been legal consequences within the EU so that in the future there can no longer be such an incident as has been said to Austria! – This is a success of the Austrian foreign policy with a very clear line – but not only with a clear line, but also with immense commitment and at the same time diplomatic skill that has stood behind it, from which you can cut yourself off, Mr Cap! Mr Schieder also said that a modern foreign policy requires that a “network of friends” be established. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] - That's what we've got right now! It was impressive for me, as was the situation we found a few years ago, that the French Foreign Minister was here and how you could see in personal contact, which network of friends was built. The same can be said not only in connection with all other countries in Europe, but also for far beyond, for example to China or Israel. In particular, I believe that the development of relations with these countries is extremely important: China on the one hand – the most populous country in the world, an economic factor not only of the future, but already of the present, one of the most important foreign exchange countries – on the other hand, Israel and the Arab countries, because there is one of the hot spots of global politics there, where it is important that a country like Austria also tries to make a contribution to get out of the conflict situation there. – You can only be grateful, Mrs Federal Minister, for making a contribution to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Schieder, Member of the European Parliament, made the last request: Modern foreign policy understands the state or is intended to understand the state as a whole. – Ladies and gentlemen, you then said: “External policy” – I try to quote you literally – “must be operated together, only then will it succeed.” – I would like to address this sentence to you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: Support the Foreign Minister instead of falling into small criticism! [[Abg. Gradwelt: What?]] Support them where it is necessary to enforce Austrian positions in Europe! Help her! If we act together, we will succeed! I can only say to you, Mrs. Federal Minister: Do not let yourself be disturbed by such minor nuisances! In your camp is Austria, and you have every reason to be proud of it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e4291	Mr Dr. Deputies has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e4309	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important to acknowledge here that Austria really needs a strong and clear voice abroad. I think it is equally important to recognise that the foreign policy of Austria needs a strong voice within the Federal Government and also in that country. – That should be said at the outset. The problem we see, ladies and gentlemen, is that this foreign minister does not have this strong voice in the Austrian Federal Government. I'll give you some proof for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: You are not even there!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! For two years now, the border agreement with the Czech Republic has been in place here in the House, and you have not been able to bring this border crossing agreement to the committee responsible and to ensure that it is ratified. For two years the liberals have not wanted to conclude this agreement with the Czechs, and for two years your colleague Bartenstein has said that it is not possible because it does not allow the labour market situation. – This is driving the untruth, ladies and gentlemen, because now there is no obstacle to labour market taxation at all – and there is one thing with the Cross-border Convention! In any event, as a minister, you are not in a position to conclude the necessary agreements in the interests of our country and in the interests of the people of our country. – First example. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Second example – it has already been addressed –: It has been agreed and planned since May – at the pressure of the Federal Government, because you wanted to boast of it in Europe! – to ratify the Accession Treaty as early as possible for the ten new EU Member States. We do not stand in the way of this, we have signaled it from the beginning, we have just said one thing: We demand that you do your tasks and ensure that the accession of the ten new Member States to the EU in Austria is well prepared to allow workers to expect appropriate measures from the Federal Government in terms of qualifications that the border regions can expect. But then move on the day the Carinthian head of state says: If we don't get what we want in transit, then the veto possibility needs to be played!, then this federal government, this majority of governments, shifts ratification by three weeks. [[Abg. Scheibner: A “madness! ” Just three weeks!]] – But what does the Foreign Minister say about this? – The Foreign Minister does not say anything, because she is not here, and it is well known that nothing can be said from abroad. Mrs. Federal Minister! If you have a question of this weight you have to say something as a foreign minister, especially you have to prevail. For us, it is not crucial that you say this externally and publicly, for us it is crucial that you raise your word in the Federal Government and that you have weight there – but you do not have that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Fassleven has just spoken about the diplomatic master achievement you claimed to have achieved. – Mrs Federal Minister, there is indeed a diplomatic mastery that I would like to acknowledge: They have been fighting for months for every country in Europe to have a commissioner, and with you, the Federal Chancellor. Do you know what the diplomatic master achievement of that is? – That you want to forget and have almost forgotten that it was this Federal Chancellor who decided in Nice that from the moment more than 27 members are in the EU, no longer every country has a Commissioner. This Federal Chancellor was it, and you carried it! – You have tried to forget that – a diplomatic master achievement, Mrs. Federal Minister! Let me also say a word about your success balance as far as Israel is concerned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] – Mrs Federal Minister, I cannot see the success there. I know that it is important – we fully support this – that Austria develops its relationship with Israel in a friendly, correct and constructive way, but I do not know what you believe in, that everything would now be in butter if there is still no Israeli ambassador in Austria, but still a relationship based on a business carrier. That's why I have to say: Indeed, what you have achieved cannot be described as a great success! Let me also say something about transit, because it was claimed earlier that in transit the former ministers, the red ones, had never achieved anything, and the current are the poor: The only one who achieved something in the transit on the Brenner was at the time as a transport minister, I was the one who created a solution, only it has not been implemented by the Black Transport Minister and the Black Head of State! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The four blue ministers and you have done nothing about this!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e4411	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e4430	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! The Social Democrats seem to be choosing the theme of the current hour, which reads as follows: “Where does Austrian foreign policy remain?” – Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! Have you completely escaped the fact that there is a very different current issue that is currently affecting, affecting and insecure the whole of Austria? The current issue, if you had trusted yourself, would have been the situation that public transport here in Austria is at present almost impossible. This topic seems to be You are not to trust yourself here, for the simple reason, because you are of course in solidarity with the trade union strikers and a wave of indignation in Austria is floating over us, because no one understands that this strike affects people who really didn't deserve it. These are older people, especially people who are not so involved because they have no cars. These are the topics, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, which would have been discussed here today as current topics, but not Austrian foreign policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am already aware of why this topic has been chosen: It's an early start to the presidential election campaign. That's perfectly clear. There is a possible candidate and questions her where Austrian foreign policy remains. But I think that's where you've lost the next directorial error. They should be very careful on the subject of foreign policy. We all remember – and it is still very present, although it has been some time since – that of your highly esteemed party chairman Fred Sinowatz, who has tried to bring the “brown past” of Waldheim to light. That was foreign policy, with the result that Austria has stood up like a Nazi state in the world public, which we have suffered to this day, ladies and gentlemen! This is your foreign policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With horrors, ladies and gentlemen, we also remember this legendary Holocaust session of the Socialist International in 1999, in which your then Federal Chancellor climate has endeavored to bring together all in order to achieve sanctions against Austria. This was an active foreign policy of the Social Democrats in 1999 which led to the imposition of sanctions on Austria. – That is what I call an active foreign policy, but not in favor of it, but to the detriment of Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With this holocaust conference, with your activities – Mr. Klubobmann Gusenbauer, you were actively involved in the front line, I remember the photos from Paris, on which you can see that champagne even celebrated the sanctions against Austria – of course also the European Union delivered a total blamage which could only escape it by so-called three ways to resolve this dilemma. This is your foreign policy! So it is not a question of criticizing the Austrian Foreign Minister here, but of looking first at yourself, as your foreign policy has looked, at my dearest Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to see a foreign policy like that of our foreign minister, who looks such that, while maintaining our neutrality in the Iraq crisis, we have denied the warring parties any transit and any overflight rights, especially as the US-British advance through a UN resolution was not justified. This foreign policy is ten times better for me than for those you presented. I'm gonna tell you something. Three speakers of the Social Democrats were out here, none of whom I have heard the word ‘neutrality’. It appears that there is no longer any such thing as the language of the Social Democrats in Austria. Not even once have I heard the term “neutrality”! Foreign policy has also taken into account the neutrality of Austria. You seem to have forgotten that completely. You have already forgotten that during the discussion about the interception hunters. sen. There was also no more neutrality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] An important topic is Austrian development cooperation. Against the background of globalisation, the problems of the Third World are given a new dimension. Poverty, unjust distribution of resources, exploitation, war, disease, all this must be combated. In this respect too, an active foreign policy is necessary, but it is also being pursued, ladies and gentlemen. Austria needs and has a good, balanced foreign policy based on neutrality!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e4532	As the last speaker, Mrs Lichtenberger spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e4550	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! My dear colleagues, Fassleven and Mainoni! First of all, Mr Mainoni: They are telling what has been on the table for two years, so to speak, for free speakers on foreign policy, so there is nothing new. But, Mr Fassleven, I am somehow disappointed by you. They generally refer to criticism as adaptations. So there is obviously no such thing as criticism in this state anymore, and we come from ever more soaring state ideas within the ÖVP slowly towards Metternich. And that makes me worry about democracy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But now on the foreign policy of our foreign minister. I do not think, Mrs Foreign Minister, that you are doing too little, not at all! In many areas you are doing too much to me, namely absolutely the wrong thing, something that Austrian interests are so unapproachable that we need to discuss this much more often and much more clearly in this House. I therefore begin with the first major chapter, where this applies, which is the question of the Convention. Mr Farnleitner has had a relatively good basis for cooperation with us Convention and replacement members of the European Convention, and in some cases he has also made very interesting, positive proposals. You, Mrs Minister, have obviously not changed a single word with Farnleitner for the last two or three years, otherwise it could not be that all that has gone until the end of the Convention now suddenly goes into the trash and the Federal Government appears against the Convention with 12 points and fights on the front line for a result that was first and foremost developed by parliamentarians to be broken by the governments. This is your performance, Mrs. Minister, and this is not a positive performance for Austria! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You have clearly shown this, Mrs Minister, when it came to the question of secret negotiations in ECOFIN when the finance ministers tried to bring out all democratic elements from the Convention's draft, to re-democracy him, to reintroduce the backroom diplomacy in financial matters. First of all, you said: Yes, of course, that's their legitimate right, and then you said you didn't know anything about it. If this is an external policy in the European Union, we must rather be in the Winkerl and be ashamed of you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What you are representing is questions that take democracy out of the Convention's draft, which no longer means democracy, but less which fall far behind what the Convention's draft would mean. This also raises questions of neutrality or of future security and defence policy in Europe. You, Mrs. Minister, say on every inappropriate and appropriate occasion that Austria should be one of the first states to participate in this new defence alliance. [[Abg. Murauer: That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen, also from the EIA, is it clear to you that this means that we have to more than double defence expenditure if we want to meet the ‘claimful criteria’ for ‘structured cooperation’? [[Abg. Murauer: What is your proposal? Just one sentence on what you imagine in terms of security policy!]] Do you realize that this means a complete end to neutrality and even alliance freedom? That is the truth behind what this foreign minister publicly announces, and that is contrary to any constitutional state we currently have in Austria, and to the broad majority in Austria, which will not accept the task of neutrality, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, on transit. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] If that is an example of Austrian alliance policy and efficiency in foreign policy, if the point where we are currently in transit, then your identity card, Mrs Foreign Minister, is a more dramatic one: We stand before the end of every working arrangement, because neither in the Council nor in Parliament – they always resort to Parliament, but never to the Council! – solutions are available.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e4635	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You have already had three conclusions – now please the last!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e4651	Now the last final sentence: Neither the solution available in the Council, nor the one available in Parliament, will mean any minimization of the transit, but instead will open the door and door of transit – and for that you, Mrs Minister, share responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e4681	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e4699	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e4983	I also announce that the Fifth Report of the Incompatibilities Committee has been distributed to all members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e5001	Before entering the agenda, I announce: Mr Bayr, Members of Parliament, asked that the written question put before the entry into the agenda be dealt with in an urgent manner by Dr Josef Cap, colleagues at the Federal Minister for the Interior concerning the failure of the Minister for the Interior in the fight against crime and the destruction of the Austrian security system. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the request 720/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e5025	I also inform you, before entering the agenda, that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply 720/AB to Question 722/J by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues on the exploitation of the federal housing companies by the Federal Minister for Finance. As we are discussing a urgent question at 3 p.m. today, the short debate will take place following this one. Objections against the agenda pursuant to § 50
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e5050	In accordance with Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure, Members of Parliament have raised objections to the agenda of this meeting. The objections are aimed at supplementing the agenda by the following points 1 to 3: the government documents 230 of the supplements: Treaty of Accession of certain countries to the European Union and Final Act; 209 of the supplements: Decision of the Council of the European Union amending the Act establishing general direct elections of MEPs of the European Parliament and statements; and Amendment No 250/A by Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Scheibner, Mr Scheibner, Mr Enrights concerning a Federal Act amending the European electoral order and adopting a Federal Act on the European elections 2004. The Green Group supports these objections. The debate on the approval of the EU enlargement treaty should therefore take place before the declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor on the growth initiative. These objections were raised by the Social Democrats and the Greens. I am not in favour of these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide by vote. On the basis of an agreement at the Presidential Conference, one speaker per club will speak at a speaking time of 5 minutes in the debate which is now taking place, and will make an opinion on this objection to the agenda. The first one is the representative of the arbitrator. He's got 5 minutes of speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e5092	Mr President. High government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! A preliminary remark to you, Mr President: At the last objection debate, you were particularly strict and called an opposition speaker to the matter. In order that you, Mr President, do not have to worry that I am slipping away from the subject, and that you also have to consider a call for action, as a “service service” a statement of content [[Rejoicing]] I talk first about the environment, then about the dimension of the matter – and finally about the core of the matter, so always on the matter. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] By the way, you have just allowed Mr Mainoni to talk about which issues should actually be dealt with in this House today. And then he's right: The public would have expected that today, in particular, the question of federal railways will be discussed, but not within a current hour, but a declaration by the Federal Government. The question is: In spite of many concerns and devastating criticisms by experts and the Court of Auditors, why has the government not gone down on its decommissioning plans at the Bundesbahn? Why is the ÖBB workforce stimulated and provoked to resist and forced to strike? [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Or: Perhaps the government could have made a statement and should not have left it to a urgent request to discuss why the Minister of the Interior is “organising” more and more power, at the same time increasing crime and reducing the rate of Enlightenment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The European public expects that, after the Constitutional Committee has approved the relevant submissions in good time, the Assembly of the National Council will also decide on the enlargement of the Union and on the applications for the European Election Order. But what is the government doing? – It makes a statement on the growth package rather than on the other important issues, and the question of EU enlargement is not put on the agenda at all. The former we cannot influence, the latter we can object to – and we do! That is why we want to place and treat points 286, 287 and 288 of the Supplements as points 1 to 3 on today's agenda. Moving on December, the expectation of Austria will not benefit our reputation and lead to multiple interpretations: If there's again a conflict in the government?, you'll be asked. Does the FPÖ not want to, perhaps because of the transit question or because of the Beneš decree? Don't you want to be among the first? - No!, says the government. The only reason is that we want to do it firmly in December. Even if it is, no one will believe us! All will be speculated and disappointed! That's why: Let's do it today! Let us confess to a clear, consistent and solid European policy of Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let us have no doubt about our country! We promised the other, and the saying also applies here: What you can get today, don't move it to tomorrow!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e5183	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e5202	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Speaking of ‘to force strike’, Mr Arbitrator: Did you know what the railway union in St. Did you do pomps? Did you know that the railway union in St. Pölten has prevented post-bussers from working? [[Pfui-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Scandal! Scandal!]] Have you heard, honourable Member, who is to be forced to strike here? Have you heard, Member of the Arbitrator, that the Chairman of the Board of Postbus Society, Mrs Goldmann, is massively dissociating himself from this action, because she really wants to let workers work? Excuse me, this is a force to strike, and I reject it, because this dictatorial policy of the railway industry is not ours! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to briefly present the chronology of this exhilaration caused by the opposition. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Do you know what the truth is, Mr. Arbitrator? – I tell you: There has been a proposal from the Austrian People's Party and the FPÖ for the timely treatment of the entire complex of the Accession Treaty. This proposal has been submitted by the Austrian People's Party and the Freedom Party to the other clubs. ==References== A meeting at the level of the staff took place on June of this year, and I am now quoting from the minutes of this meeting. The SPÖ representative said: Either the decision of the Accession Treaty takes place earlier in the Council of Ministers, or the decision-making in the National Council and Federal Council plenary can only take place in December 2003. – Statement by the SPÖ representative in June of this year. [[Ah-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, stick to the truth! As a result, there was no agreement between the clubs – unfortunately, I regret it. The first agreement was reached in November of this year when the club directors drew up a joint proposal for the agenda for today's plenary session. This joint proposal sets out the statements made by the Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor as Agenda items 1 and 2, and in no single word mentions the issue of enlargement and decision-making. – This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We therefore held in the presidency that the agenda should be handled today, as already proposed by the club directors in common, and we have – and I think this is the right thing to say together – President Fischer has even expressed his satisfaction at the end of the presidential term. The first item on the agenda will be the enlargement of the European Union. – From my point of view, this is the right and important signal. This is why today's important message is for the public and for the candidate countries: ==References== In November, the enlargement treaty in the Constitutional Committee received the approval of all four parties to this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is the important message, ladies and gentlemen: All four parties stand for the enlargement of the European Union! Furthermore, it is held – and this is the second important message – that: ==References== The decision-making process in this House is taking place on December! The third important message: This Federal Government also represents the Austrian and European interests in a great way in this context! Hence: Leave these artificial excitements and stick to the truth, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! They harm the cause with these art products, and the thing is far too important to us as it is to endanger them by these artificial excitements.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e5281	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e5300	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Klubobmann Molterer, the ability of the government parties to do something like self-reflection, to think a bit about themselves, a little criticism, no matter who she comes from, to take seriously, to have a spark of self-criticism – so far away from being, so to speak, so to speak, in all that one does, to have 100 percent right, regardless of whether the Court of Auditors tells you that the OeBB reform in this way – one can only sum it up – is to say that it will not bring any savings – you can also in any way prove that you have thought about it today or yesterday in the Council of Ministers – not to address anyone at all – whether it is the trade union, the Court of Auditors, the opposition, the European public – that is already an outstanding feature of this Black Blue II government! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We do not agree with the agenda, and we do not agree with this agenda for good reason. The Foreign Minister has once again stressed that the most important and largest project of Austrian foreign policy is European enlargement. – The decision is mature. We have decided in committee, it has been prepared for months, and it has also been agreed that this issue will be on the agenda today. It has, I believe, been a consensus between all the parties in this House – and this has been a very important consensus – that as a sign of friendship and commitment, especially with our direct neighbours as one of the first of the old Member States of the European Union to ratify this accession as soon as possible – as a sign of friendship and commitment to our neighbouring countries. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where is this agreed? Who did you agree with?]] Especially in view of the fact that neighbouring countries such as Slovenia, for example, have adopted the Accession Treaty by a 90 percent majority and that a very large majority of the population is firmly behind it and that for months there has been great efforts in all these countries to create the conditions, this would be important! – As we deal with this, I believe, it is significant how we behave in this relationship with our neighbouring countries and how we do it wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] The reason for the shift – I would like to say it again – was it had never been agreed anyway! [[Abg. May. Molterer: There was no shift!]] - It's not true! And I say, Sad! It was agreed. [[Abg. Grandruck: Where? Who agreed?]] If it's not important for you to agree on this, I'm sorry. Another thing: If it's meat, we'll decide in December! – I think that’s not how to deal with such a great peace project. The third explanation: We first have to wait for the economic package from the government. – I say: That is no reason at all, because the economic package is not even introduced. We are only talking about this, we are only being informed. This is, in turn, an extended government press conference. Because of this, to postpone the ratification of the Treaty of Accession, I think that is unbearable and unbearable. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Because of something like that?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: “This,” what does that mean? Do you care about employment policy?]] There have been further explanations. In the Committee, Mr Mainoni said that the first thing to do was to boost the economy and decide on a business package before starting enlargement. Mr Scheibner spoke of any mysterious secret negotiations in the House that are so secret that we cannot talk about them with the neighbouring countries at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: What do I have? Where are you? What you get!]] I would like to ask you seriously not to make this small in any way. Explain to us what was and is the background and why we cannot decide today why, in the light of this comprehensive history of veto threats, of uncertainty towards our neighbouring countries, we are not able to reach a consensus here in Parliament today! It is particularly regrettable that especially from the neighbouring country to Slovenia, namely from Carinthia, it is precisely from the Carinthian head of state who comes in turn blockade policy: Enlargement has been called into question, a veto is back in the room, and there are also issues relating to transport and transit related to it, where, in recent years, a gallery of incompetence has been set up on the government bank in connection with these issues, otherwise I cannot call it. [[Abg. Scheibner: You might wish that!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We do not take any further steps on the subject – on the contrary! In this way, we are only making ourselves disbelief and ridiculous in Europe. To this great project – and I say that as a Carinthian –: A proper signal towards all those neighbouring countries that have been preparing for months would have been more urgent today than ever. But you have managed to use once again uncertainty, once again to make major projects in daily politics into manoeuvring mass, instead of finally putting the big things out of dispute.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e5448	Mr Scheibner has now come to the floor. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e5466	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mrs Glawischnig! We've been insecure? We are uncertain about the question of EU enlargement or the time? [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Where? Who? When?]] Whoever of us said: We're moving now because this and that haven't happened yet!Unknown term type: "%s".? Did we do that? That's why we're not sure? - We didn't do that. You are trying to bring an uncertainty into the debate here by talking about a shift that is not on the agenda at all. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Molterer has already said this: ==References== On December, the ratification of EU accession agreements will be on the agenda. I'm really asking you: Who is interested in whether Austria implements this ratification three weeks earlier or later? The ratifications are now taking place in Europe – you know it. There are countries that do this earlier, there are countries that do this only next year. – Where is it a core of uncertainty or other things that you try to stage in a tight way? Mrs Glawischnig! It is interesting to say, in connection with the economic package, with the growth package, which we will then discuss, that “because of such a thing” enlargement will be postponed. I'm asking you: What does that mean, “because of such a thing ”? – For us, a package is not “this” but very important when it comes to implementing labour market policies when it comes to setting up research policy measures when it comes to implementing economic policies so that Austria’s location is not only secured but is further developed. – This is not “this,” but it has the highest priority for the Austrian Federal Government and for us as well. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Member of the Arbitrator! If you say that you would have liked to discuss the ÖBB dispute here, then you already know that your group has just said that they do not want short-term statements to be put on the agenda. [[Abg. Schieder: In the declaration of the Federal Government!]] But we should have done that, because until yesterday we hoped – and I hope you too hoped so – that the staff representatives of the Austrian trade unionists, the trade unionists you have influenced, social democrat trade unionists, will finally be negligent and will not continue their political strikes on the back of two million Austrians, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] No one is forced by the Austrian Federal Government to strike, at most by some trade unions, the workforce is forced to strike these strikes. [[Call:Treasure]] What's the meaning of demolition? – It is about making the Austrian Federal Railways fit for competition. It is about introducing justice there, and for those who really need it to work hard to introduce an even better regulation. However, it is also about preventing, as the Court of Auditors has pointed out, that the average age of retirement is 52 years. This is why 2 600 partially exempt works councils are fighting – on the back of 40 000 staff at the Austrian Federal Railways and on the back of two million commuters and stakeholders, Ladies and gentlemen! - She's not about it. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Only your policy!]] It is also interesting that the strikes were set up in such a way that all of you could travel to Vienna by train yesterday and return home on Friday. – A wonderful strike plan, also for the Social Democratic MEPs! But the many counterparts do not have these possibilities, and I would therefore expect to be more responsible on your part instead of supporting these political strikes. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There was, that's right, 7th. An agreement on this agenda on November – an agreement between all four club directors on an agenda in the form that is available here today! There was no protest, ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the Greens have protested because there are so many explanations. Well, one can discuss this, but there was no discussion about the need for a different agenda from the one we are discussing. They have subsequently come to the conclusion that this would be an opportunity to lead a political discussion, and not to the benefit of Austria, but to the damage of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I would expect you, together with us at any time, before and even after the ratification of the EU accession agreements, to represent the interests of Austria – and there is still much to do – and also to the European Union, but not to try to beat your political little money out of such small political debates. This is the wrong way for Austria, and this is also the wrong way for an active European policy in the interest of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e5567	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote. I would like to ask those Members who want to take account of the objections of the Social Democrats and the Greens: Complementing the agenda with the points I announced at the outset to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. It therefore remains with the agenda for today's sitting. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e5603	We are now going into the agenda. It is proposed that the debates on points 1 and 2, 3 to 5 and 6 and 7 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We'll do this. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e5627	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration and shape of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 hours in Vienna has been agreed, resulting in speaking times as follows: ÖVP and SPÖ each 140 minutes, Free 96 minutes and Green 104 minutes. In addition, as the ORF is transferring, the following time agreement for the debates was found between 1 p.m. and 1 p.m.: Statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany 15 minutes, Statement by the Chancellor of the Vice-President 12 minutes, each political group a speech message at 12 minutes, then a word message per group with 8 minutes each, a word message by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany with 5 minutes, the Vice-Cancellor of 5 minutes, and finally one word message per group of 5 minutes, while in this round the President-in-Office assures, after consultation with the presidents of the club, that all four political groups are in the same way. There is also agreement that actual corrections will only be called after 1 p.m. This is the proposal of the President-in-Office of the Council on which we are immediately voting. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. That is why we are doing so. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Chancellor according to § 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the topic of “The Growth Initiative of the Federal Government” 2. Point Declaration by the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on “The Growth Initiative of the Federal Government”
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e5683	We come to the first two points of the agenda. I give the floor to Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel for his statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e5704	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that in recent days it has been possible to make some important decisions, including that the Constitutional Committee unanimously approved the enlargement Treaty. That is, I believe, the broad answer to the concerns expressed earlier in the debate on the application. We have a consensus both in content and in procedure, and I expressly welcome it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, I am looking for the High House and, above all, the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to understand that there are other issues for the Austrian Federal Government, which may be more priority or perhaps even more prioritized in the present situation, namely issues relating to growth, location and jobs. I believe that the current discussion is more than appropriate, especially as we have an early economic upturn ahead of us, on 1st January. The enlargement of the European Union by ten new Member States will take place in May and a whole series of developments, reforms in Austria, but also around us, will be felt by international movements. We are therefore presenting a very ambitious growth programme that will bring us a great deal closer to the goal of bringing Austria to the top three of the European Union by 2010. With this, we keep Austria moving just as much as with the two growth packages last year, which at least in time have provided us with the scope for action, which the economic researchers now confirm to us afterwards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] Those who have read the autumn forecast of the European Commission, Mrs Bures, know that for about two years Germany had no growth, that Switzerland had no growth, that France has practically zero growth this year, Italy is a very small one, namely one in two or three tenths, that the Dutch, the former pre-declaration, even have a decline in economic growth and performance, while Austria with at least 1 percent is half a percent above the entire euro area. I think that shows that we ourselves have been very well claimed in difficult times. And that is the basis of our policy: to promote the fate of people and workers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The basis for this is, of course, a sound financial and budgetary policy, because this is simply the requirement for us to remain politically operational. We have successfully implemented this way of budget renovation in the high economy. Those countries that did not do so at the time – Germany, for example – have no room to counter in the now difficult economic situation at all, and are far more than 3, perhaps even more than 4 percent deficit. We have our finances under control. We therefore make an important contribution to the Stability Pact, to a strong euro, but above all – important for our citizens, especially for the poor – to low inflation. – This is the real benefit of this stability policy, which Karl-Heinz Grasser and the entire Federal Government are giving you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, we have saved on the one hand – some savings efforts you have criticized and done so to this day – but we have also increased revenue in 2001. We therefore had a very high level of revenue; we were at least 45.5%. However, today – and I am proud of that – we are at a value of less than 44 percent, and with the tax reduction, with the preferential relief especially for low incomes – 14 500 € per year are tax-free – we come to 43.6 percent next year. In this way we also achieve our goal: 43 percent by 2006, and by 2010 we want to reach less than 40 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! It is gratifying that there are various signs of this – and they increase – that the economy is starting. We want to support and strengthen this trend with the present growth package. First of all on education and research, a very important topic for all of us, especially for the main competent research minister and vice-chanc Hubert Gorbach. – We have expressed our common objective in the research and reform dialogue: a research rate of 2.5 percent by 2006, 3 percent four years later. In order to achieve this goal, after long efforts and many intensive negotiations, a real throw has been achieved, namely a national foundation with a capital of over €3 billion. At this point, I would like to thank the ERP fund – the Americans who must and have also agreed – as well as the central bank, which is teaching this foundation with at least a billion and a half euros, for this is something that many generations of researchers and research politicians have fought for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Moreover, we create one of the most attractive tax systems for research and development with allowances of 35, 25 percent and 8 percent respectively. We also invest in universities: € 22 million for the improvement of transitional services; the rehabilitation of the economic union is included in the package with € 58 million; moreover, a home of research and many other things more. The second major issue is: Employment, especially youth employment and apprenticeship training. – Yesterday Hubert Gorbach and I in the Federal Government proposed that we – a new idea! – to set up a government representative on this so important issue. We've won Egon Blum for this, who first covered up some time of thought. Egon Blum is not anyone, he is the “father of the so-called Vorarlberger model”, many of whom have shivered. We have also been convinced that there is a first-class service here. As far as youth employment and training are concerned, we are the best country within the European Union. And we want to continue this active policy, even to improve it. Today, €200 million is available for the target group of young people. The apprenticeship training premium of € 1 000 per apprentice has already been used 65 000 times. The number of teaching contracts – ladies and gentlemen, your call for advice is not audible, but my numbers have been increasing by almost 2% since October 2002. [[Abg. Neighbors: 1,000 per...?]] I think it's really great that the economy is going along with this programme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is why, and I invite you here, including the social partners, all political parties, to support Egon Blum in his work, to become a red-and-white-red issue, far away from every political political polemic. The future of youth is at our heart. It is crucial to the future prosperity of the country! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] In the field of employment and the promotion of SMEs, there are some very decisive extensions: Investment growth premium will be extended by one year. For small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in the border regions, for which we have around €1.5 billion from the Union's structural programmes and that for rural areas, we want to make the course of enlargement and modernisation investment very consciously, they are supported by 5 to 20 percent. 100 million € are available for small and medium-sized enterprises. We support them, particularly in border regions with additional risk capital; to increase capital, once again a state guarantee of the same degree, to the extent of the guarantee: 120 million € – a very important step towards strengthening the middle class in Austria, especially in the border regions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For us Austrians, export has slowly become an absolute food, even a means of survival. Practically 50 percent of our wealth is generated by export of goods or services. We make over Martin Bartenstein's budget €50 million extra, divided into two years, available to significantly increase the number of exporters. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Is this his own money, or what?]] Our aim is to double the number of export companies to 30 000 by 2007. This is very important because these exports depend on almost two million jobs, which, of course, benefit from a liberal world trade and a good export regime. Not to be forgotten, of course, that, especially with the Eurofighters, the start-up package from € 1 billion to the middle of the next year is to be handled. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is a dizziness! They're dizzying again!]] This will bring a very important additional impetus in this present situation. Rural areas will be strengthened, as will biomass and various other things, including by extending aid for natural damage, tax and direct contributions. Of course, the whole theme complex infrastructure comes in. – This is clearly the main topic of Hubert Gorbach, but I too – I say quite openly here – support each of his steps, because we invest more than before, half more in money – can be found in all budgets! – in rail and road compared to the period before 2000. [[Abg. Eder: Where?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Eder: Where? That's nothing new!]] But I also say: This increase in investment only makes sense if the projects are good first and if the organization is good. Why, do you think, did Hubert Gorbach reorganise the entire road organization? The federal roads have gone to the countries, the special companies have been grouped together. Why do we have a road pricing system that works, while in other large neighbouring countries the chaos is not just far away? [[Call the SPÖ:Where? Where? Where does it work with us?]] I think it is very important to support these organisational changes, because this is very important for the citizens and for the location issue in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This applies, of course, to a modern railway. You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, wanted us to talk about the ÖBB. I like to do it! Every customer of this train, each customer knows that the train needs to be reformed and modernized. That's not a question at all! And we need the train! Thank you, Mr Cap. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Members of the SPÖ keep blue plates up to the height with the white label “Save the track” or “No demolition of the ÖBB”.]] We're saving the train! This reform is vital for the railway, for honestly: With structures of the last century you cannot exist today and tomorrow. [[Call the ÖVP: Save the train from the SPÖ!]] The Austrians know this very well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I therefore appeal to the railway, I appeal to the railway union and to the ÖGB as a whole: Ruining You don't have the foundation, the image of the train by playing the credit on the back of the commuters, on the back of the companies, on the back of the customers and the users of the train. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to break the line, quite the contrary, quite the contrary. [[new calls to the SPÖ]] I give you a good example: In the voest you all know well, there was the same discussion, namely: [[Call:... crush]] It's supposed to be smashed! – True is: Only when Apfalter and his assistant Strahammer were able to share the Voest with the support of politics into viable units, from then on the Voest has risen to the world's top. That means: We are saving the train with these reforms! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The train is a service company. [[Abg. Let it stay like that!]] This includes “service” – customer service; Strike is not a service to the customer, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! – and “performance”, and both of us want to have a strong, modern track with more money than before. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] We invest more than ever in history, but with new structures, with new motivation and also with the willingness of employees to cooperate here. [[Abg. Eder: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Eder: Lauter Schmäh!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we want to give the train wings! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Therefore, don't be the brake block on the way to the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In conclusion: High house! With this growth programme, we invest additional €2.5 billion in the future of our country in the coming years. With the investments in the infrastructure, it is a total of €34.5 billion, the right time to let the Taferln disappear. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Dizzy!]] – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e6020	Mr Gorbach is now taking the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e6044	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! High house! The first speaker of today's morning in the current hour, Klubobmann Cap, has brought a look back and said something very important and also right, namely: The question of transit is a question of life for the Austrians. [[Abg. That's right!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: He's perfectly right!]] He then looked back in history a little bit – for me, however, too little – and meant that the last four transport ministers had not played a good role in this question. I call on you, Mr Cap, to look back a little further on this really important question for Austria. There have been a few Social Democratic Transport Ministers before – one is still among us, if he was not just outside, namely, Mr. One – who at the time had the power to shape this treaty in such a way that today we do not have to conduct these discussions, which we regret. [[Abg. Parnigoni: He has negotiated a contract!]] It's written to you in the main book! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It was interesting, however, to experience such a debate once, because I think it is just too funny that the opposition in this House is obviously complaining that the foreign minister is going too much abroad. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] This is something that everyone who works on the market comes out of the economy: The business, the important discussions, the conclusion of the contract, is done on the spot. Not at home in the warm room, not here in Austria, but on the spot you make foreign policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I have nothing against actionism. I really liked the plates you kept up from SPÖ earlier. [[Call the ÖVP:Taferl classic!]] As an owner, I always feel particularly touched when it comes to the Austrian Federal Railways, a hugely important company, in future transport policy probably the most important company at all in our country, but also across borders. From my point of view, You keep these plates quiet, even during my entire speech. They fit very well, I identify with the inscriptions: “Save the train” – we are there! – and “No demolition of the ÖBB” – we don’t want to do that either! [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] But it might also mean: Wake up the train! – There is a new market, there are new competitive conditions. The market is liberalized, he is thank God in growth. And we wake up those in the train, which are not so narrower and set to the international competition. So: The sayings are good because correct, and the color was also sympathetic. Quietly out with the plates! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We are talking today about a growth offensive, about an economic package. One has already been able to follow the I and II economic package – and the Wifo has confirmed it – that this government has rightly set out anticyclic measures, as the last economic packages have brought 0.75% of GDP growth. This is exactly the value we have in terms of growth, namely, 0.7/0.8 percent. So if we had not started these measures, we would have a zero growth or even a minus growth – as it is so beautiful – as the other countries have not far away from us. These would be happy if they had zero growth. We have precisely because the right measures have been put in place, this growth of 0.75, 0.8 percent. It should therefore be said that the location, the economic location, of course, plays a role in such a package. This is a serious issue, because it is also about jobs, a development that concerns us all. The economic location is very much influenced by factors which the railway trade union obviously does not yet have intus. One of these factors is the reliability of modes of transport, the reliability of public transport, the reliability of railways in the country concerned. And reliability is not exactly demonstrated by strike. [[Abg. Silhavy: But you probably have political responsibility for that! That's a terrible thing!]] Rather, reliability is something that is very important in a growing Europe. Reliability is something that is currently being put at risk in Austria by the trade union of workers at the Austrian Federal Railways. [[Abg. Mandak: You endanger the reliability, not the union!]] [[Abg. Eder: You are responsible! Not the little railways!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Think about what's happening here! [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Maybe you should consider too!]] This is because: Every entrepreneur, every economically thinking person knows that the most important element of the satisfied customer is. [[Abg. Mandak: I'm a client...!]] However, trade unionists are currently annoying these more or less satisfied customers. This is a misdevelopment that can only be condemned and that hopefully will be over soon! I congratulate the post-bus company where it was said: 24 hours are enough, tomorrow we'll drive again! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I think it was Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig who said today that we would ignore reports or comments from the Court of Auditors. - We don't! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Of course!]] On the contrary: We follow a recommendation from the Court of Auditors. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We take these very seriously. It was the Court of Auditors that meant that there was an urgent need for reform in the spring of this year. , who meant early pensions of 52.2 years should no longer be available – and the age of arrival has even fallen in recent years. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You have no idea as much as your predecessors!]] [[Abg. Eder: There was the Forstinger even better!]] Also, the average duration of the sick leave for over 50 year-olds of 70 days per man and nose per year – compared to 20 commas of some days for ASVG staff, compared to 11 days at the rest of the BB – could not be left so, the Court of Auditors has found that, read it! [[Abg. Silhavy: What about improving working conditions? - Nothing!]] The Court of Auditors has said that the special rights, the unannounceability, the automatic loss coverage according to § 2 and thus the full amount of casho – that must cease. We follow these recommendations, we do nothing else. We therefore take what the Court of Auditors says very seriously! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As already mentioned by Mr Bundeskanzler, according to Wifo's report, two areas of action have been particularly effective in the last two economic packages, namely investment in infrastructure and the promotion of research and development. On research and development. We had a research dialogue last Wednesday. It is a pleasure for a Minister of Research to be there, a respected, internationally renowned researcher like Dr. Penninger, who has come back to Austria from the USA to work with his team here because the conditions are so good. He got up and said: In fact, I am still wondering now that I am just too pleasantly surprised and concerned about the conditions offered by the Austrian Federal Government to researchers and developers in this country. Shut up! – These have been his words. [[Abg. Dr. One: That wasn't this government, that was the previous one!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Investments in infrastructure have never been understandably as high as this year, the next year and the years thereafter. [[Abg. Oellinger: For the road!]] You know very well that over the next few years the volume of funding for investments in rail and road will have been assumed to be: The construction industry cannot bear and process any more. [[Abg. Mandak: Of course!]] The € 1 to € 1.2 billion of investments in the rail sector are one; the more than € 1 billion in the road construction sector is the other. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is not financed at all!]] These are amounts that have never been there. Accept that! [[Abg. Oillinger: Who pays for it?]] This also means job security: This has secured 14 000 to 18,000 jobs over the last three years! – That should also be your concern from the opposition. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few words on research, including funding: To give the research landscape in Austria a new structure is an important thing – long announced, now it will be implemented – the optimal funding is the other thing. Since, I think, we can be proud to be able to provide €1.2 billion in funding in addition to the budget over the next three years – which is not bad either. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] You know: The €600 million for the research offensive II is one thing. €300 million over the foundation and €100 million over institutions such as research premium, such as grants – they have already been mentioned. This means that we are in the field of research in Europe number one, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Let me conclude, because the red lamp is already shining again – it will one day finish me here, it will always light up, just cut the broadband initiative, an old concern of mine : that access to the Internet is also made quickly in the rural area, where the Internet is fast and the same access as in agglomeration centres is available. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP, with representatives of the Freeman and the Abg. Arbitrary]] 10 million euros are planned for this; the EU and the countries should also provide 10 million euros each. Then it is €30 million a year – a great initiative that especially benefits rural areas! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In total, what the Federal Government is doing here can be summarized with the saying: ‘One waits for time to change; the other takes it heavily and acts.” This Federal Government has taken action to act, ladies and gentlemen. It has not occurred to wait for better times, it does the better times! [[Abg. Mandak: They come after this federal government!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e6430	I thank Mr Vice-Chancellor – but I cannot promise a blue lamp. I note that we are now entering the debate on the two declarations. The next four speakers have a speaking time of 12 minutes each. Mr Gusenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e6455	Mr President. High house! Mr Vice-Chancellor, you are right: Better times for Austria will only be after this black and blue federal government! We are completely in agreement in this respect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Given all the measures you have presented to us today, I am happy to be critical of this. I say: There are some elements in this package of measures that I consider to be useful and good. [[Call the ÖVP:But?]] The only thing to be noticed is: Why has this package not come into the house today so that one can check in detail how the approaches are really designed in reality? [[Call at the ÖVP:... assigned!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The second question that arises... – [[Interim note on the government bank:It's in the house]] We didn't get it! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: (pointing to SPÖ)... bad organization!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It has not been brought in so far. – Mr Molterer is today like the rumpel stylus and constantly claims things that do not take place. This is the second time, Mr Klubobmann. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, the question is: Why does such a package come so late, at the end of the year, where we are still dealing with rising unemployment and where, unfortunately, Federal Chancellor, all the forecasts for the next year predict that despite these measures, unemployment will not fall but continue to rise? [[Call the ÖVP:In Vienna!]] I do not think it is funny at all, Mr Molterer, that this black and blue government has been responsible for an increase in unemployment by 50,000 people in Austria since its inception. There is an urgent need for action here – and no need for fair weather speeches, ladies and gentlemen! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] If there is something going on in the research and development sector, I welcome this, Mr Vice-Chancellor. But then, as if we were the best in Europe? – Please leave the church in the village! Austria does not even spend quite two percent of its gross domestic product on research and development. Advanced countries such as Sweden or Finland spend 3.5 percent. This difference is also not offset by individual, few measures. Make a solid long-term policy, but don't pretend to be the top of Europe in every small measure! This is not serious, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Federal Chancellor! They pointed out that the voestalpine approach – not now the total privatisation, but in the past the breakdown into different companies – was the basis for the voestalpine's rising to the world's peak. - You're right. But do you know what the difference is? – At the time, this breakdown of voestalpine into full consensus between the political leaders, the management and the workforce has taken place, and therefore it has also been successful. [[Nicking of representatives of SPÖ]] [[Abg. Scheibner:... has abused party politics!]] This is the difference to current policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Mandak.]] As you have already referred to the question of infrastructure and railways today and Mr Vice-Chancellor has said that it is precisely what the Court of Auditors is asking for, I would say: Let us answer that question to the President of the Court of Auditors. Today, this one notes in a press interview: “Surely we wanted savings. However, as far as the structure of rail is concerned, in our 2001 report, it is precisely the opposite of what is happening now: not a further division of the individual organisational entities, but we have pointed out that this should be structured more sparingly." That is the reply of the President of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors wanted the opposite of what you are now planning to do with the ÖBB reform. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] And it also contains a second interesting sentence in this interview, which you should also take to heart. The President of the Court of Auditors says: “We have referred... to the fact that the loads are not sustainable.” – You mentioned that too. – “This does not mean, however, that any reform proposed must find our approval if it is not targeted.” And: ‘If the corresponding volume of savings is not presented, the RH must raise its voice.’ Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Council of Ministers therefore decided on a reform of the Federal Railways to which the Court of Auditors noted: The direction of this reform is wrong, the savings are unimaginable, and it is even to be expected that individual areas of the federal railways will be driven into bankruptcy. – And you stand here pretending to be the most wonderful thing in the world! [[Abg. Ellwall: They never talk about the “consumer ”!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The truth is that with your so-called ÖBB reform, the most important Austrian transport company in its existence is at risk. That is why this path must be stopped as quickly as possible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It remains a bad aftertaste for all you explain, because it is not that the Bundesbahn would not have been reformed. There has been a Director-General Draxler, who has carried out a reform at the Austrian Federal Railways, which has led to the movement of goods being profitable and competitive. Everyone will remember: This Director-General Draxler has been pushed away from the black and blue government because he didn't fit you politically! That's what's left of your work at the train: One always has the impression that it is not about the railway, but it is about reaching political conditions that you prefer. – Harm for the railway and pity for transport policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There is no doubt at all that further reforms at the Bundesbahn are necessary in order to improve the service for passengers, so that there are better transport links and that the increasing need for transport services can be met. But, ladies and gentlemen, this reform – as the Court of Auditors and all the experts say – will not succeed, because this reform will not strengthen the company, but will be weakened! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Where does the democratic culture of discussion remain? If all experts, if the Court of Auditors, the employees, the board of directors, the Supervisory Board felt that this is not a goal, it would not have been significantly better for the Federal Government to say: Then let us think about how we can do this better, and put ourselves at a table with those who practice criticism!? No, in the Council of Ministers you made a decision yesterday, and you want to enforce this devastation of the railways on bending and breaking! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a bad way for Austria. This is a way of conflict at all costs – and not a way to a better railway! And that is exactly what you have to condemn in the Austrian Parliament today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In the end, you also have to ask: Where are your models ended? – I heard months ago what experts were invited for the ÖBB reform, namely all those who have failed with their rail reform in Great Britain, where the outcome of this railway policy is obvious: lower safety standards, lower services and higher prices. Should I tell you what the difference is? – In the UK, you pay €488 for a monthly ticket at a distance of 90 kilometres! [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: And in Switzerland? What does this cost in Switzerland?]] The same monthly ticket costs 111 € in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Tell me what this costs in Switzerland!]] [[Abg. Miedl: Who pays for this, Mr. Colleague? – That only pays the taxpayer again!]] Let me tell you something: Unfortunately, the tokens for your missing railway policy will have to pay the passengers of the Austrian federal railways, the commuters and the people in our country. – That’s the wrong way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] By the way, the result of this failed train reform in the UK is that a government has had to deal with this disaster for years now, that it is likely to be re-stated because this road has led to the dead end. Ladies and gentlemen! A reasonable railway policy in Austria – together with a capable management, as it once did, and together with the employees – would look like it said: The great successes that have been achieved at the level of freight transport, we now also want to achieve at the level of passenger transport and to benefit from the favourable conditions we have for this with an integrated overall company. – This would give Austria a good service. With your policy – to put everyone in the head, to condone the employees there in an incredible ÖVP atrocities propaganda every day, and the conflict that even forces people to strike every day – will not be successful in this way! This path leads to the demolition of the railway, this path is bad for Austria! Ladies and gentlemen! It's time for a change of course: Turn around, come to your senses and seek reasonable solutions – and finally end this Hauruck policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e6702	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. Same time of speech: 12 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e6721	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gusenbauer, I would ask you to organize your club better. Here I have the letter of the Federal Chancellor with a valid date. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Gusenbauer, watch out!]] Parliament's entrance stamp, Mr Gusenbauer 11. November 2003 – the day yesterday! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: It's not there!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: It's not there!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Prammer, Bures and Reheis.]] A “Bundesgesetz” (Federal Law on the National Foundation for Research, Technology and Development) has been adopted, “the Income Tax Act 1988, the Federal Finance Act 2003 and the Federal Finance Act 2004..., the ERP Fund Act and the Ausländerbehördesgesetz” are amended... and the ASFINAG Act...” and a number of other laws are amended. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Where did the chole hide it? - The Khol has hidden it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] [[Intervoke of a document in the direction of the speaker. May. Prammer.]] Mr Gusenbauer! Please go looking for yourself in your area of responsibility! Yesterday, the Federal Government took the decision, yesterday, to send the government decision to Parliament, with the stamp of yesterday's day. - So far to this thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer! It is significant, however, that it is obviously not even possible for you to obtain these basics yourself. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: (referring to a document) Where's the khol?]] [[Intervoke by Dr. Cap, Mag. Prammer and Reheis]] I may be apologising that you might not be able to read the package what you said today. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What you're showing here is unbearable! Unbearable! Should we go find the laws? – That’s inconceivable!]] However, I believe, Mr Gusenbauer, that, even if you had it, you obviously lacked your basic understanding of this economic policy concept – or that there is a fundamental understanding of economic policy conception in the SPÖ, which is diametrically different from what is reasonable for Austria in terms of economic policy. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is unbearable, Mr. Molterer!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Economic policy is reasonable for Austria that we define the clear objective number one of economic policy, and that is: full employment in Austria. – Full employment in Austria is the declared goal of this Federal Government. All people in this country who want to work are supposed to have work because having work is the best social security that can be given to people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Full employment and work for all, Mr Gusenbauer, ladies and gentlemen, however, means that full employment is only possible if the economy grows. Growth policy is therefore a prerequisite for full employment in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Growth policy needs attractive location conditions. That is why I think it is absolutely correct and I particularly welcome the fact that the Federal Government is now presenting the growth package for Austria at the right time, presenting it to the House here and giving us MEPs the opportunity not only to discuss this growth package but also to decide in good time so that these growth impulses for Austria's economy and for Austria's work from 1st century onwards. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, next year's January will also be available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] On the one hand, this growth package builds on the economic policy concept of this Federal Government, namely a sound budgetary policy for Austria. A sound budgetary policy, ladies and gentlemen, is a prerequisite for growth, full employment and a successful social policy in this country. We are not in the league of the last ones who have a budget deficit of 3 or 4 percent – no, we are at the forefront of a successful budget policy in Europe! Our second economic policy objective is to reduce the tax rate, the burden on companies for which workers want to reduce the amount of money left in the pocket and actually increase the attractiveness of the location from the tax side accordingly. Thirdly, this growth package is essential, and it is important for me to make this clear to the public again. The first stage of the tax reform will come into force in January next year at the same time as the first stage of the tax reform. Ladies and gentlemen! The overall economic composition is as follows: We have the first stage of the tax reform, namely the relief of small incomes, the discharge of small and medium-sized enterprises – keyword: profits not collected – or, for example, the debureaucratisation – keyword: ==References====External links== Tax prepayment – started. The growth impulses of the growth package and that in combination are exactly the right answer that the Austrian economic location now needs to achieve the objective of growth impulse and full employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This growth package, ladies and gentlemen, must come now. In my opinion, Karl Aiginger of the Austrian Institute for Economic Research has correctly noted that what is now planned is not an economic recovery programme, but a growth package to ensure long-term growth. This very objective of the growth package is, of course, also reflected in its contents. I was a participant in this research and reform dialogue – like other colleagues in the House. What fascinated me is that there the professionals from the scene – already quoted, for example, Professor Penninger; but also Professor Consemüller, Professor Bonn or, for example, the head of the IHS Felder – have explained that this research initiative will enter absolute new land in the positive sense. They mentioned two essential elements: On the one hand, the tax attraction and on the other hand the budgetary attraction will make the research location Austria the location number one in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So that we also know what dimensions we're talking about, I'm telling you: We are talking – Vice Chancellor Gorbach has already said it – of € 600 million in addition. Sometimes I have the impression in the political debate that the euro changeover has not yet been fully implemented. Do you know what 1.2 billion euros are in Schilling? – This is plus 17 billion schilling for the research site Austria. This is the right economic impulse, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the field of research, for example, the researchers themselves have absolutely welcomed this National Foundation as an essential element of the future. Why? – Because the research projects can now be planned over a longer period of time and not depend on the annuality of the budget. Therefore, this research impulse is just as important as the infrastructure offensive, as is the growth and founding initiative for young entrepreneurs, as is the labour and employment initiative. I would also like to thank Mr Blum for taking responsibility for this area because a professional gives additional impetus to youth employment. We also welcome the measures for rural areas or the measures for export. What is the SPÖ's answer? – You heard Mr Gusenbauer today. He said that what we did was partly very interesting. That made up about a minute of his speaking time, the rest of the speaking time was with loud aber. And the SPÖ is reserved, Mr Gusenbauer, to be in this country the party seeking the future in the past. This is economic policy brand SPÖ! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What are you doing? – Mr Gusenbauer, Member of Parliament, and the SPÖ remain in the old concept of debt making. They still think that Kreisky is the benchmark of all things in economic policy. I'd say he's the scale of the problems we've got today. We're not ready to do that. If you do not take this away from me, I quote you, Mr Gusenbauer, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, whom I met last weekend. [[Abg. Brosz: Have they also had a business package?]] He said a very interesting sentence: Debt policy is the enemy of the social market economy. - And he's right about this statement. Therefore: Don't go on your way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You make tax increases, you refuse tax reductions in this House and you defend structures that are long overdue. They make economic policy proposals that lead to re-nationalisation. They defend structures at the Austrian Federal Railways, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, which cannot be defended. [[Abg. May. Posch: Who wrote you this speech?]] I say to you: The times are over for trade unions in this country to hold a company. The times are over for trade unions in this country to hold a board of directors. These times are over. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is the time of action to attack also hot iron. If every Austrian, regardless of whether he/she is driving or not, has to lay 7 500 s per year for the ÖBB, this is the best proof: It's time to act! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I therefore say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: You have made it quite clear that the past is your benchmark and not the future. The trade union was once again called upon: This is a political strike that we reject – in all clarity! This is a political strike that harms people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Is it not in the railway industry that nobody thinks of the thousands of children, no one about the students, no one about the thousands of commuters who can't come to the workplace? [[Call the SPÖ:So please!]] Does no one in the trade union think of the economy, for example, where the Voest is already saying that it has problems with this strike at its company location? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The Holiness...!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: You should be ashamed!]] They are also responsible for problems in businesses.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7014	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7035	You damage the location, you harm the employees, and you harm the Austrian Bundesbahnen. [[Abg. Silhavy: You harm people with this policy!]] We're going another way: We offer the future for the country and for the railway.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7099	Mr Van der Bellen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Van der Bellen. Same time of speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7117	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Molterer, in the interests of Parliament and in the interests of the opposition representatives: They have given the audience and the listeners the impression that there have long been written documents on this so-called growth initiative of the Federal Government. That was the impression that had to come about. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not “lying,” since yesterday!]] I would just like to point out the following: This government template, to which you seem to refer – 313 of the supplements, named “Growth and Location Act 2003” – at least I – I suppose all my colleagues in the green club and all colleagues in the social democrats – will receive it early today, please. It's early this morning! [[Abg. Mandak: That's the difference, Mr. Molterer!]] Of course, you've known this for a while. You know the statements, the laws contained in them. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr Gusenbauer said he did not have them!]] You may even know what data is inside or what you can read from it. But we, the two opposition parties, are forced to respond only to hearing and newspaper reports. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's why we need this debate!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: The SPÖ doesn't have it yet!]] So do. You do not seem to have the same level of information as you do. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, I think it is right that what has until recently been referred to in the media as the economic package III has now been mutated to the growth initiative of the Federal Government. I think it's right because it's not an economic package. Off, basta, there's no economic package III! There are certain measures that can be discussed in detail, which I even consider to be growth-enhancing in part, but there is no economic package that is effective in the short term for macroeconomic demand. That does not mean that any measure in this government template that we have received early today would be fought by us. My first impression is – I haven't read it yet – that the research and development measures include at least correct steps. This is my first impression; it can change when you study the government template. But my first impression is that at least planning security in some research funding institutions is being improved, in particular through this so-called National Foundation. Mr Blum, I believe, is not in this government template, at least in the volatile leaves I have not found his name. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Persons basically not!]] Mr Blum is a government representative for youth employment and apprenticeship training. I have to say: I know Mr. Blum. I know Blum's company in Vorarlberg. I made an operational visit there, and my impression was excellent. Great! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wattaul.]] This company has a valid apprenticeship training, as far as I was able to judge this as a visitor. I was really impressed – this is just a small anecdotes in this context – that a large part of the management was carried out during our business visit not by the directors or by the Master or by the so-called higher people in the hierarchy, but by the apprentices themselves. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: From the apprentices themselves!]] This means that they not only receive a good professional training there, but also a one in rhetoric and in social skills. That is why I can only wish Mr Blum the very best. But I do not know what skills he will have to say, how hard it will be for him to implement his ideas of apprenticeship training, apprenticeship employment and apprenticeship funding in industry and in the economy in general. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Because the Chamber of Commerce always prevents!]] I think he'd be the right person with the right ideas, but what's going to come out of it, we'll see first. - So much for the right things. But then we have to listen to the Eurofighter story again. This talk and despair of compensation business is, please, not economic policy! That's not growth policy, that's air bubbles policy. Please forgive us! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, the ÖBB reform is not in this government template, is it? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not in this one, in another!]] This is probably because the ÖBB reform that you are planning is neither economic support nor growth-enhancing, let alone a lay-back. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We would very much like a federal government – and in view of the transit debacle – to give this Federal Government a real opportunity to transport on the rails, both in passenger transport and in freight transport. I have so far been unable to understand what the demolition of the ÖBB into at least ten companies for the company's dynamics, for the growth of the company, for the relocation of freight traffic from road to rail or for the relocation of passenger transport from passenger cars to rail. [[Abg. Mandak: Posts!]] I'm totally out of order to see that. I believe that this is simply a measure at the expense of the trade unions there; that is all. I cannot see another sense in these measures. This is no wonder, too, if one leads to statements from politicians who are primarily concerned with this reform. The APA made two broadcasts yesterday. [[Abg. May. Molterer: More!]] – Several, but I am now referring to two – apparently after or before the Council of Ministers yesterday. I quote: “The Minister of Finance himself agreed that it was with him several years ago that he was on the train: ‘I don’t do it anymore because this product is not competitive for me.’ He has no time to sit in the train for five hours when he gets to Carinthia in two to three hours by car.” [[Oh, by the greens.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: (in the direction of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser) How fast are you driving?]] This message was corrected a few minutes later. It says now: “He doesn’t have time to sit in the train for five hours if he gets it to Carinthia in two and a half to three hours by car.” [[Abg. May. Worm: He can drive!]] Mr. Finanzminister, this is pure cynicism, because the route shows me you – even to the national border – even if you have all the dates in Carinthia in Wolfsberg – from Vienna to Carinthia in two and a half hours by car! [[Abg. May. Worm: This is dangerous!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I know the route through Semmering, I know the route through the change: If you comply with the relevant speed limits, it is completely excluded to drive to Carinthia in two and a half hours, i.e. half of the time you need by train. You can use your service car there unlawfully, you can do that, but not legally. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That's not true!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If this is the attitude that an important minister has towards the railway, what is suggested? – Someone driving the train must either be a pensioner and have a lot of time or be a child and have no driver's license. But a person who keeps something on him – and therefore has no time like the Minister of Finance – has to race by car on the highway. - That's the message. Against this background, it is worth looking at the relevant data, Mr Molterer. I remember that you said about the overall transport plan a year ago, a year ago: One third of the funds go to the road, two thirds go to the rail. – True is exactly the opposite. That's the opposite! If you look at the projects where funding seems to be partially secured – half way away! – then the ratio between road development and rail development is 85 percent road: 15 percent rail. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: That's not true at all!]] And that's where you think we should believe in a reform project train? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: These are the figures of the ASFINAG!]] I'd like to give you the data. This is the result of the billions of euros, which can still be calculated. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The overall traffic plan...!]] The overall transport plan partly speaks a clear language. Where he is comprehensible, it is clear that in the eyes of ÖVP and FPÖ, the road has absolute priority ahead of rail. And if it goes to the Minister of Finance, it must be. That's quite clear. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – I thought that 12 minutes of speaking time are long; they are, of course, too short. To lose a few words about the Minister of Finance: It may already be, Mr Molterer, that the budget situation in Austria – as far as the federal government and at least the countries are concerned – is better than in some other EU countries or countries in the euro zone. But is it in the interest of Austria, is it in the interest of the Austrian export industry, if the Minister of Finance in the EU is in the mood that Germany, that France, that Italy, that all so-called deficits should reduce its deficits by at least one percentage point of GDP in the shortest time – already for the next year? [[Abg. May. Hakl: Yes, of course!]] That's in the Austrian interest? – I would ask you, Mrs von der ÖVP, to clarify our Austrian export economy. Orders in billions will be lost to Austrian exporters in this way if this is achieved. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] And it is none other than Minister of Finance Grasser, who is one of the hardliners in the EU on these issues, who is trying to reduce public demand in the most important industrialised countries again in a recession, in an economic crisis. This can only be borne by Austria in view of its external interdependence. This is just not to do with plump marketing arguments. One more thing, Minister of Finance. They are also responsible for the Austrian capital market. You are responsible for what has been done in this area this year – the third case of insider policy in these days! [[Abg. Eder: These are the friends!]] That a member of ÖIAG's Supervisory Board participates in the privatisation of Böhler-Uddeholm in this way can only damage the Austrian Stock Exchange, the Austrian capital market in the long run. There is no change in the fact that Mr. Schalle has returned his Supervisory Board mandate a few days ago and that this group is not on the move. In foreign countries or in investors who are considering investing in Vienna on the Austrian stock exchange, the reputation of Austria is once again damaged by this kind of an insider party on the outside. This is the policy of the Minister of Finance, for which he and no one else is responsible and responsible!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7484	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Speech time: also 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7502	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, in his speech, at least in some passages, has quite differentiated this growth package and, for example, in the field of research, has also been very positive. Indeed, as he said, he looked at it and read it through. [[Abg. Mandak: He didn't say that!]] – Of course he said that! Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer has missed this differentiated view. Although he didn't read it, as he said, he knows it's too late, and he's just against it. This is an ‘interesting way of thinking’, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] They're referring to the SPÖ up there. Explain a little bit to “Euroteam” – you can interpret a lot – but not down there! [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] Let us now have a meaningful debate on the growth package. We have nothing to do with the interpretation, Mr Matznetter. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] But we have something of a really dynamic, task-oriented policy, as it does the Austrian Federal Government. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] - I know you're nervous, and I'll call you down. Did we catch you again? Good. If you talk so loud, you'll be asked if you don't have something to hide yourself. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! We take care of Austria, and that is why we have strapped this long-standing and extremely necessary growth package, which we can only welcome with all our strength and full conviction. Mr Gusenbauer, this is not the first economic and growth package that this Federal Government has decided, but it is the third package. This third package is also very necessary. The first two packages were necessary to keep Austria from recession in a very difficult economic time, and this was also successful. The current third growth package will give rise to a corresponding dynamic for the hopefully moving economy. This will put forward future-oriented employment, research and economic policies. This is what we are doing at a time when this is of particular importance in terms of EU enlargement. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! We are not concerned whether we decide to ratify it today or in three weeks' time, that is not the important thing, but we are concerned that Austria should also be geared towards this enlargement, especially the economic location of Austria. These are the tasks we have to deal with here! You should also look at this, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We know that already today at the Group headquarters or at the corporate headquarters, where the locations will be set from May next year, whether they will be in Austria or whether they will be in the new Member States of the European Union. This is what we have to focus on, and this is precisely what this growth package is about, namely that we not only receive the Austrian site, but also make it even more attractive, and we want to do so with economic-invigorating measures. You should finally take note of this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Why can we decide on three growth packages? – It is simply because we have done our homework because we have reduced the debt mountain, the record deficits that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, have left us – in contrast to your great model, the red-green coalition in Germany! Now we have God, thank you where it is necessary to have the necessary room to put relief measures in the field of the economy, but also – and this is important – in the area of purchasing power increase among taxpayers. At this point I would like to refer to the tax relief package. First level: 1. January 2004: Tax exemption of all incomes up to €14 500 annual income. This is a very important measure to increase purchasing power, and this is also an important signal, because this is about small incomes. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That was rejected by the SPÖ!]] I therefore do not understand to this day why social democracy, which as a representative sees itself as exactly this group of workers, rejects this so important tax relief here in the House. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Incomprehensible!]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, you should explain this to the people once too! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You are always talking about a high tax and tax rate, but when it comes to really supporting a relief for the people involved in small and medium-sized incomes, you are voting against it. Political announcement is one – realization is the other. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now the focus is on research, which has also been addressed here by the Vice-Chancellor today. They also say that research funding is too little, especially in international comparison. But they always say that the international comparison should not be drawn. Of course, you do not want to have the international comparison of unemployment rates, where we stand very well. It is clear that we need to do something about the further rise in unemployment, but in this respect you do not want to hear the international comparison. In the field of research, do it. I am now making the national comparison of research expenditure. They say it's too little. Let's see how it was under your government! Between 1995 and 1999, they increased the research rate, although already as a large target of 2.5 percent in the area, by only 0.4 percent, from 1.59% to 1.63 percent of the gross domestic product. These were your achievements among your research ministers! We have acted, we have not only announced, but made serious: We are now at a research rate of 2 percent and will increase this growth package to 2.5 percent by 2006 and we will be at 3 percent in 2010. This is a modern, dynamic research policy that guarantees that the location of Austria will continue to be secured in the future. These are not mere announcements, but concrete actions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Further measures are: the National Foundation, an important element in this field, investment promotions especially for small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria, also for the strengthening of equity, a job and employment offensive – do you also vote against them? – and above all, the apprenticeship promotion contained in the growth package. Those measures that have so far been put in place with regard to the apprenticeship premium will be extended and intensified, so that we can really guarantee that young people get a job or a training place. This responsibility, which we have here in the House, must be exercised, instead of practicing political polemics on the back of those concerned, as you do. You should consider this and take these forward-looking measures together with us. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Next point in this growth package: infrastructure measures, infrastructure expansion. – You have also said that it is all too little that you have set wrong priorities. Ladies and gentlemen, have you considered the development? – Milestones are also set there. 1999: 1 billion € for the rail, 350 million € for the road. 2004, Result of this growth package: €1.2 billion for the rail and more than € 1 billion for investment in the development of road infrastructure. These are the priorities we have to set: Build up road network and rail network for the future! This is done, not only for our construction industry, but also to make the location Austria interesting and attractive. [[Abg. Gradwell: Then do it and don't just talk about it!]] We are doing it, Mr President, and we are not just talking about it as you are. We want to expand the railway and make the transfer of transit to the railway really attractive. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Then do it!]] Yes, but then you will also help – and do not create the exact opposite by these politically motivated strikes, because by doing so you will destroy the attractiveness of the freight transit on the train! [[Abg. You are!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that the decision of the economy, whether to transport a good on the road or on the train, is of course also a cost question, but also a question of safety. It is about the certainty with which a carrier can assume that his goods are transported from the place A to the place B in a certain time. At this moment, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, these strikes for Austria give a very bad signal – to the damage of the Austrian economy, to the damage of the Austrian Federal Railways, to the damage of Austria's image! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The expression of the face of Members Gusenbauer and Cap during the speech of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and the Vice-Cancellant – that was really interesting – spoke volumes, he showed a thoughtfulness, because it was seen that once again one of your actions – not those with the Taferls, but the strikes – is going all the way back, because the Austrians are very carefully looking through this. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, do your actions here in Parliament with Taferln and wherever you want, but do not leave your political actions carried out on the back of the Austrians! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Two million Austrians are affected by these politically motivated strikes. This is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is the wrong way to make businesses such as the Austrian Federal Railways fit for the future, to keep jobs in these enterprises and to make these enterprises competitive. It must not be done as you did at the “consumer” where it has been shown that where entrepreneurs run such an industry, profits are made, and where business councils and trade unionists and politicians lead such companies to fail. That's why I'd say: Let the experts work! We are for commons, ladies and gentlemen. The vice chancellor has negotiated with the trade union week after week, offered a compromise after week, but one did not want the compromise, but one wants the strike, one wants the debate to continue to maintain his own privileges! An average retirement age of 52 years is unfair, ladies and gentlemen. That's unfair! We are talking about justice, comprehensible reforms, but you are talking about strike and conflict. Ladies and gentlemen! This growth package shows once again that this federal government of ÖVP and the liberals is acting responsibly for Austria. We are also concerned with doing good for the future of Austria – we think not only in legislative periods – for employment in Austria, for the Austrian economy and also for the reputation of Austria. That is what we want to position in the future, and we do not want to let anyone, ladies and gentlemen – not by your fruitification policy, not by politically motivated strikes, and not by your opposition, even when it comes to positive measures such as a tax reduction!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7708	In accordance with the agreement, a speaking time of 8 minutes is available for the next word messages. This is what Mr Vergebnissch has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7730	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Mr Scheibner, you are talking about securing railway jobs, while this federal government believes that it is too many people. First point. [[Abg. Scheibner: What was the “consumer ”? There were all gone!]] Second point: They're talking about the experts negotiating. However, this Federal Government says that the Executive Board should not negotiate, but that it is negotiating. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who says that?]] – That’s what this federal government and no one else says! They criticize that we have different ideas about taxation. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because you vote against it!]] Yeah, we've got other tax ideas. In fact, you have committed a break: In the Coalition Government, Schüssel I, they promised the Austrians that in 2003 the big tax reform will come. Where is she, Mr Scheibner? [[Abg. Scheibner: She decided on 2004! They were against it!]] Our tax reform would bring citizens more than your small tax reform will bring! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are talking today about the growth initiative. I think that's good and important. What we need, however, is above all an employment initiative growth, and in this respect, very dryly said, too little contained in the growth package. What is the answer to the about 270 000 job-seekers that we unfortunately have in our country at the end of October: the reference to other countries or active measures in our own country? Where are – very concrete! – the employment initiatives for older workers? – Unfortunately, none are included in this package. That's exactly what we're criticising! If Mr Blum is now being used as an agent for the Federal Government – and I am not willing to say: That's an excellent decision! – then the question for me is: What has been the activity of our Minister of Labour so far if one needs a Federal Government Commissioner? I am convinced that if you equip Mr Blum with the skills he needs to implement his ideas, you will have the full applause of us. We have been criticized here in this House when we said: Let us create a vocational training fund! You said that was a nationalization, we didn't need it all. Mr Blum represents this in Vorarlberg with great success, and I am excited how you will act in the economy if he asks you to do so with his plans which he has already made public, whether you will go to Vorarlberg as before, like Mecca, but at the moment when you leave Vorarlberg: We do not need such a vocational training fund, the free choice will take place there! - I'm excited about how this is going to happen. [[Abg. Head: He's there voluntarily!]] I welcome this measure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you're talking about growth measures here, I have to tell you: It's a fact – you just need to read it; it's not about the ideology of the hair, it's about concrete measures – that you have weakened domestic growth and, above all, domestic purchasing power among workers. Think of your load packages, started in the year 2000 until today, until the year 2004! Does growth result when you take away the purchasing power from workers with the introduction of fees, with the increase of contributions, but also with reductions in their additional benefits? One could of course also attach to the other ideology and say: All right, but we've done something for entrepreneurs, and that creates jobs! I ask you very specifically: Has the change in the tax on beverages created jobs? Did the new advertising create jobs? [[Abg. May. Molterer: What “new advertising charge”? You mean the reduction!]] Has the holiday quota you have introduced created new jobs? Has the loss of postage created new jobs? Has the loss of the VAT on exchange sales created new jobs? That's what we criticize! Growth alone is not enough at all, but we need growth that creates employment, and there are too few approaches, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, several speakers of the government coalition asked the question: Who is driving the conflict to the political level? Mr Molterer. You said, "Treasureful." Jessas Maria, who is thinking about these poor people?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not tearful!]] – You will soon have to take action when your concept is enforced – as sad as it is – and explain to the drivers of the Federal Railways what has actually become better when your concept becomes reality! Explain They ask Austrian citizens that, where four companies have been operating so far, ten companies are needed, causing about € 130 million in additional costs, because there are executives and supervisory boards everywhere! Explain You're going to get better at people on this track! [[Abg. May. Molterer: A lot!]] Tell me exactly what this will improve! In your concept you cannot see it at all. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The customer orientation of the company! The service!]] The customer orientation?- Oh, my God! – Who has so far prevented you from doing something? As owners, they have the responsibility to ensure that the Austrian Bundesbahnen have come up with the crazy idea that, when you release a ticket on the train, you will have to pay 10 € for the Schaffnerzuschlag. This is not the responsibility of the employees there, but of the board of directors. That's your own responsibility, and it doesn't take you away, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Incredible!]] If the Minister of Finance says that the train is no longer competitive and it takes too long for him to go to Carinthia, I have to tell him: Who, then, prevents the Federal Government from speeding up, for example, the train to Carinthia? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Chief of State Pröll!]] Let us think of the endless debate here in Parliament regarding the Semmering Base Tunnel! Is this a task of the employees, or is it a task of the owner's representative who is there for the debate? Who has been able in the last three years to give the Federal Railways the necessary means so that they can actually expand? Their new proposals say that they should continue to be indebted. I'm of the opinion: We need another train! I am against the fact that – and you have been referred to as a Member of Parliament in your capacity – you, who are commonplace in the private sector, are the “privileg” of the federal railway and postal bus workers. Is there no night service surcharges in the private sector? Is there no additional leave for heavy workers in the private sector? Why don't you blame the Bundesbahnern for all this? [[Abg. May. Molterer: We even expanded that!]] As you accuse the employees of the ÖBB that the disease increases: Mr. Federal Minister Gorbach, you know better. Why does the number of sick people increase? – Because every pension case needs to be confirmed in the Ministry of Finance today, and this administrative process takes place. – Therefore: Give the staff in the train a real opportunity to negotiate! The Federal Chancellor has now offered a new negotiating date – great! – but with it the remark that the cornerstones should not be shaken. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] This is wasting time, ladies and gentlemen. Let us sit at the negotiating table – and we are looking for a solution for the ÖBB staff and for the Austrians! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We do not want a railway where safety is getting worse, as was the case in England – and now the railway infrastructure there is going back to the government, so to speak. Or New Zealand, where exactly the same happens, Denmark or Sweden, where all these concepts run in the wrong direction. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Switzerland!]] We also do not want a railway law that intervenes in private contracts. And you will have to defend it from ÖVP and FPÖ if, through intervention by this federal government, there will be up to 25 percent less income in the Federal Railways – and that in the case of wages from 1 300 to 2 500 € gross per month! That's an intervention that's supposed to make the train more competitive?- Oh, my God! A good infrastructure, motivated employees make the railway competitive – but not a reduction program, as you provide for by ÖVP and FPÖ: with pressure – and that “not to be shaken” at the cornerstones. You will have to explain to the mayor how the new train with your structure looks better! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We want a modern train, we want motivated employees, we want jobs for Austria. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7983	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8002	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Today, in my opinion, represents an incredible contrast: Here in the High House, the government – out of responsibility for the future – presents a growth and location package as a prerequisite for jobs, income opportunities and social security; on the other hand, we experience a conscious demonstration of power by socialist trade unionists, with the intention to paralyze the country by trying to paralyze the “blood” of the economy, the traffic. Here in the National Council, Mr. Verzehnitsch comes to the speaker's seat – and does not say any word about this union demonstration of power, does not say that a strong trade union of the ÖGB, namely the railway union, is trying to paralyze Austria. Mr ÖGB President, may I ask you a few questions. [[Abg. Definitely: Sure!]] How seriously do you take it with the harmonisation of pension rights? [[Abg. May. Worm:... this has this federal government to answer!]] And if you take it seriously: Is that true of the ÖBB? [[Abg. Gaál: This is a cut-off program!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] How seriously do you take it with the codification of labour law? They have been demanding the codification of labour rights for decades. And that must also apply to the ÖBB! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: You have four pensions, Mr. stupid!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Tell your railway workers, Mr Verzetznich, the following: This necessary reform cannot be removed! This reform is necessary! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Bures: How much pension do you have, Mr. Stumbling?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] This reform, ladies and gentlemen, should lead the ÖBB from the past in the present and future. We from the government parties are against a demolition of the train, but for its protection. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] And we are also in favour of a high-performance transport infrastructure! [[Calls and appeals between representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and the liberals.]] Do not try to explain the truth differently, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! – What we do is responsibility for the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Bures and Dr. Puswald.]] Return to the growth and location package: This package is a further proof of the performance, the reform power of this government, as well as the proof that this government is ready to tackle the most difficult challenges with intelli..., with intelligent solutions. [[Call the SPÖ: There he stutters quite well now!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] – Don’t be so nervous with your calls! It is a difficult task to make a small and foreign-trading country its own growth policy. That is a really difficult question. Many recipes have failed. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Yes, your policy!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] “Recipes” of social democracy, to believe that one can buy jobs and economic growth with debt, have failed worldwide: to believe that one could make debt and pump billions into demand! Where are the countries of Germany, France, Italy or Portugal today, which have tried to create growth at the expense of stability: debt? – These countries are now in the lower ranks of the scale! For us from the EIA, growth policy does not mean simply making debt and pumping billions into demand, but for us, growth policy means the combination of stability and structural policy. Worldwide, ladies and gentlemen, it has been shown that sustainable economic growth will not be possible until there is a permanent reorganisation of state finances. Stability and growth are not contradictions, but rather one another! This is why the government's focus on stability in financial, fiscal and budgetary policies – while at the same time dynamic in economic policy. What does structural policy mean? – Structural policy means that those scopes are created, precisely through this policy, so that growth potentials can be used to provide incentives for research, development, innovation, technology, et cetera. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] This is responsible for the future, Mr colleague – and even more intermediate calls, you cannot compensate for it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is another point: As we all know, the climate, atmospheric, trust in the future plays an incredibly important role in the economy. And: This government sends confidence-building signals. – You of the opposition, on the other hand, make the country bad, ladies and gentlemen! And this is bad for the economy, bad for jobs and bad for the economic location Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The need for this growth and site package also shows the fact that – Mr Klubobmann Scheibner has already referred to it – how much we want to do with the forthcoming EU enlargement, which we all want for years, which brings our country back to the centre of Europe, both economic policy and what is going on in the area of site competition, opportunities and risks will be re-distributed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] That is why this site package is so correct, and therefore it is so important to provide €100 million in economic support for small and medium-sized enterprises in the border regions, as well as €120 million for small and medium-sized enterprises in the border regions for capital strengthening. – This is responsible for the future – not intermediate calls here in plenary, Mr Cot! It is equally important to promote research, development and innovation accordingly. And I have to say: The opinions of experts are worth noting: Dr. Consemüller, Chairman of the Council for Research and Technology Development, speaks of a “quantity leap” in research policy; Professor Felder of the Institute for Higher Studies believes that this package will make Austria the “most attractive research location” in Europe; Professor Aiginger of the Austrian Institute of Economic Research speaks in this context of a “great throw”. However, these votes have weight – and such opinions, such judgments also generate confidence in the future. Austria's companies and businesses have this confidence. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't make the opposition our country bad all the time! You overlook that you are not just criticizing the government, but that you are making the country bad! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Economic success is not only based on government policy, but also, of course, on the work and performance of hundreds of thousands of companies and their employees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Bures: Yes, despite your policy!]] In summary, the economic packages I and II are: Economic researchers believe – and this is evident – that there would have been no economic growth without these packages in Austria. This site and growth package follows. In addition, the tax reform is the first part with 1. January 2004, which exempts all “small” income recipients, thus some 200,000 people from the tax obligation. It also strengthens businesses; the equity of small businesses is strengthened by the profits not collected by the tax beneficiary. The 13th. Tax prepayment – bureaucracy and nonsens is that! – reversed. This is responsible for the future, ladies and gentlemen. All of this means that this government is willing to accept this challenge, is willing to balance stability with economic dynamics with its policies – creating the conditions for jobs, income opportunities and social security.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8259	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8293	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have, at least as a member of the opposition, very often recognized the willingness of the Federal Chancellor to explain himself to the House and to discuss here. And, in fact, This is much more often the case with Chancellor Schüssel than his predecessors did. However, we have repeatedly pointed out that a strange “amassment” of so-called statements exists when other issues are on the agenda as a matter of urgency. And I have to say that again today. In the matter itself, Mr. Federal Chancellor, if you lend me your ear, because I have the intention to deal with your remarks: [[Abg. Parnigoni: He doesn't care!]] If you are already explaining yourself here, I must mention a few points that are not only worthy of our recognition, but also for which we have come – even in the past – or that we have agreed to, things that we have decided together here. That is why I cannot understand at all this “championage” which is constantly coming over here from the government bank. [[Call the ÖVP: Speak well!]] It's going to be pretty slow, I think, time to change the time for opposition speeches. I have always felt that we have spent a very long time talking about common measures when it comes to such an important issue as our country's economic and social policy. Today I have – and I tell you quite frankly, Federal Chancellor – to prepare these few minutes in the opposite proportion here. First of all, positive: Yes, the economic research institute recognises certain effects of the last so-called economic packages, but: These have earned more than the present name! And this is exactly what we decided together to do and timing the verifiable effects. This was about those measures, Mr Molterer, because you are nagging here, which actually, at least in the short term, had to do with fiscal changes and measures: the increase in the investment premium and the rest of the investment that the public sector has just made. These had detectable short-term effects. This does not mean that medium-term and long-term structural policies would be wrong. On the contrary: The same is true, if you can understand it, only: This has nothing to do with economic policy! And you, ladies and gentlemen, should finally take note of this once you have announced from up here that economic growth has been proven, so to speak, by the Economic Research Institute. – It was only demonstrated by the fact that fiscal policy measures are effective. However, you, Minister Bartenstein, fought very much here in 2001. [[The speaker points to the government bank]] That was the problem at the time! Only have as a result of the pressure of the economic situation It is slowly awaiting to take good economic policies here, as it is so well said, in the old sense. However, this should not prevent us from turning to structural proposals and research initiatives, for example, for the future. You should finally recognize that what was right at that time can still be right today – at least when the starting position is comparable. It is therefore reasonable and good if the investment increase premium is extended. No question! I've got to keep up with it. However, you: Unfortunately, this is also the only economic policy measure! However, you obviously still smelled the "brain" in good time and therefore re-baptized it into "location and growth initiative". Single: There is therefore still no economic policy! You have to let that happen now: This kind of economic policy would be very useful in the next half or next year, because growth data, growth forecasts and, above all, the employment situation are not very rosy. Clarify this contradiction, Federal Chancellor! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For research and development only so much: For this you actually have the outstretched hand – probably both opposition parties – as regards the increase in funds. This is the case, however: This is far from taking place to the extent that you represent it by the government parties. In fact, take the bulk of the means you announce here, from old measures – and just add something. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Planstellen!]] It's good if there's planning security. However, I am telling you that research funding can not only be a promotion of private initiatives in the future, but that it will also have something to do with university policy. If there are further conditions such as this one at universities and these are not removed as quickly as possible, then we can talk about research and development initiatives here for a long time – and yet the conditions at university institutes, for example at the Technical University of Vienna – we have looked at them there – or at the University of Graz, will smell straight to heaven. Yes, the “states smell to heaven” – and this is a quote from the rectors, not from me. You should finally take note of this from the government parties with your university hunger policy! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In any case: The evidence of the existence of an economic package or a economic policy has been strongly missed; that is not the case. The only thing here, in the sense of economic policy, is, so to speak, a small and muffled shoe box with a secluded sleep, because you only warm up old measures – and that in general with ancient hats. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you have to let yourself be told – and I will then confront you with a few questions and numbers, questions you should answer if you already have the privilege of being able to speak here again. The ‘greatest tax reform of all time’ is announced here, so to speak. – This is a policy of announcement, as we are already used to. And when we get together at the end of this legislative period, what Black-Blue I and Black-Blue II have organised together, we will insist that the net effect of the tax and tax policy measures is far from what you constantly announce. A zero message can be that in the worst case! And the tragic thing is that the smallest income stakeholders have to bear this because they do not benefit at all from your discharge measures, which may still be coming, because you think of the government primarily top tax rates and “performance promotion” as you express them. - But it can't stay like that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you have something against performance promotion?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What's bad about performance?]] This would have to do with economic policy if you had preferred this measure. It is similar with the Köst debate. Instead of finally seeing that Austria is at the back of this phenomenon, you are only going to announce a change in the sentence – and you will produce a budget hole. Please take care to reduce the additional wage costs you used to talk about; Austria is a top-ranking player in Europe in this regard! In the sense of an efficient economic and structural policy, we should confess to bringing about international standards, even here – and not to burden the work in a way that is nowhere else. This applies both to workers and entrepreneurs. Finally, I would like to address the question of ÖBB and infrastructure investment, which is directly related. This general transport plan, which you have stressed here from FPÖ and ÖVP, and constantly warm up – from the government declaration to today – does not contain any new measure. I would like to know what this is to do with economic growth and growth! They still announce the same old numbers – still the wrong ones! If you use tables of the ASFINAG or other sources, you can see that nothing remains of this general traffic plan à la Forstinger – this name describes only the problem. And that doesn't surprise you either! Few billions of euros remain – and still in a “mixture ratio” of, as mentioned above, 85 percent road and 15 percent rail. Now explain how you want to make such an ÖBB reform! Your “concept” is: to share and starve! – The real concept, on the other hand, would be to put together what is useful, and to invest – just as the Court of Auditors has directed it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8425	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Bleckmann. The speaking time is unchanged. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8443	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vergestnich, if you say there was no tax reform, then you might have missed something. [[Abg. Verbatim: In 2003!]] Then, Mr Vergestnich, you have missed the fact that there was a decision in the National Council, which set out a tax reform in 2003. [[Abg. Where is the big measure?]] – It is clear that you have gone away; You voted against! They voted against discharge measures for 2.5 million citizens in Austria. This means that workers will remain in the bag more than €475 per year, that the pensioners will stay up to €450 more. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Only 2 €!]] This is the tax reform decided by the government parties – and you voted against! That's the policy you're making! [[New call for tender of the Abg. I don't know.]] We liberals have promised before the elections that there will be a tax reform. And in 2003 this was decided, from 1 January 2003 onwards. January 2004 in force – and the citizens will feel the positive about it – even if you do not like it from de SPÖ. And further steps will follow. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I'm asking You do, too, if you're making such a big deal here: Where was the union, where were you, when all these injustices and privileges were created, which are still present at the ÖBB? [[Abg. Distant: Which one?]] [[Abg. Controversy: Explain!]] The problems are so great that the average pension age is 43 000 – 52.2 years; the average age is 52.2 years! [[Abg. Verbatim: Who sends them in pension?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Only 12 of the 43 000 staff are over 60; only 12 – many others like the ASVGs can only dream! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The average pension height is 2 116 €. 2 688 staff representatives are partially employed. [[Abg. Verbatim: Who sends them in pension?]] These are things that ASVGler would only dream of. Where were you, supposedly representing so many people in Austria, where were you when all these privileges were created? - You were a maligned town! And why? – No call for justice, no call for privileges reduction! You were very quiet on your bank because it was about your privileges from your union and because your group was sitting there on the top of the government bank! There you were calm. It was about making up everything for individuals under the spell at the expense of many small railways and ASVG staff. You weren't here, you didn't get involved. That's what we're gonna do to you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You of the SPÖ are not the representative of the entire ASVGler! You preserve privileges of individuals from your own group, from your union, and you simply regret that you are not sitting up there anymore. Otherwise, there would be no strike today if there were reforms in the ÖBB. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They ask: Where's the economic package? [[Abg. The growth package!]] The growth package, yes: Where's it going? – It is present today and here, but you are endangering the entire growth in Austria! They endanger Austria's economic location by the way you start the strike. Have you read the broadcasts today? – “Now the fun is over” – you are endangering the business location, as the companies no longer know how to help themselves because you strike! There are 2.7 million € per day on the train, 700 000 € on the mailbox – per day! – damage to the ÖBB and thus also to Austria – because this is money from the Austrians in the amount of €3.4 million per day! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: taxpayers!]] €3.4 million in damage that you add with your strike, with your union Austria – that is, you destroy the railway and endanger the economic location Austria. That's the truth, even if she hurts you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They are the ones who incite the conflicts. You're not even ready to talk to the government. There have been a lot of offers to respond to your demands, twelve rounds of conversation – you don't want to hear it. But you are the ones who are instigating the conflicts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] And no one understands! Ask your customers at the ÖBB if they understand this. The comrades are angry, families are angry, mothers with small children who depend on the train, the students and apprentices who depend on the train – all their customers are annoyed! But customer-friendliness, you've never understood that before. Do you know who's still upset? – Individual employees with you who do not understand this, who write us letters with help calls. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] What they're writing, I'll read to you. [[Abg. How many letters do you get?]] A train companion writes that he has to distribute your propaganda material and thus harass the customers; Your propaganda material from the ÖGB must be distributed. [[Abg. Controversy: He is threatened by the Board of Directors!]] That's right, it's threatening him – you know it! They say it themselves: He's threatened! [[Abg. Protest: He is threatened by the board of directors!]] No, no, no, “If, however, you behave like me,” writes the train companion, “and if you don’t participate in this distribution action, you’re in danger of being puddled by colleagues who are of course by the union, which means a consent and at least an instruction, where for the duration of one year” – wait before you laugh! –, “where for the duration of one year it is written that you are an unreliable employee.” [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Call the SPÖ:Do you still believe this nonsense?]] I believe what worried employees of the ÖBB write to us. I think so. I don't believe you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They force employees to distribute your propaganda material. Just as you force the staff, so you want to extortion the government. A government has never done well to break down and get blackmailed. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yeah, there's a break, that's right. If you say that what is being done here with the growth package is “old sleep”, I also tell you, Mr Kogler: Many people in Austria would be happy if they were to get old sleepers! Because there are many who have problems buying shoes. [[Call the SPÖ:Bartenstein!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] But we in the government are attracting people every year with a new growth package of new shoes so that we can make good and proper progress. We in the government do not want to continue – as you all want – debt policy, but we want to boost the economy. They destroy the railway – we save the train and save the entire company. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] They annoy your customers and therefore many of your employees – we modernise the ÖBB, the railway, we want a customer-friendly company. You want to preserve your privileges, you want to preserve all that you have worked out together – we call for justice and the reduction of privileges. That's why we want blue progress in Austria – instead of red brakers!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8744	It has been agreed that, at this point in the debate, two comments can be made by the Government Bank if this is desired. The speaking time is 5 minutes each. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). After him, Mr Vice-Chancellor will take the floor. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8767	Mr President. High house! First of all, a few words for youth employment and apprenticeship training, Egon Blum. We all know him, and I also thank him very much for the positive acceptance. This is important because it will not be possible to go around and force employers and employees to make a model. But what is really important in this whole area is motivation. Yesterday, at the joint press conference, both of us were actually delighted about the fire that he assumed, as he spoke with love, with pleasure and commitment of the various levels that are important: on the one hand, the need to offer high-tech professions at the highest level; on the other hand, areas where standards are simply defined and through the modernisation of vocational training actually work well. Then he brought the word of the “school-shoes” to the discussion, which of course caused journalists to laugh immediately and make many smiles. But that's a topic! It is very important that we not only deal with high tech, but really go into the width and make the most of the location advantage that our country has with this dual training. That's what we expect from him: Motivation. He has full support of course from the competent ministers, from Martin Bartenstein, from Liesl Gehrer, and of course also from Hubert Gorbachund from me. I really want to support him. He also gets from us the necessary back cover. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Second point: Mr Kogler has found some very positive words about the growth package, and he has also mounted: What is short-term and what is medium-term? – I think that is an absolutely legitimate question. Now, if you look away from the black and white drawing, you have to say honestly: A medium-sized country, such as Austria, can move relatively little on a large scale, independently or even against the European or world economy. You have to say that honestly. In the short term, we've done a lot. I just want to list it like Stakkato: There is, of course, the discharge with the 1st. This is a very important step which is immediate. That we in Austria will, for example, make an increase in pension income from January, to the difference between Germany and Germany, is such a step. Other things also work immediately. I have not yet said that we are making 5 million more available for the protection of monuments, which is directly involved in employment-intensive measures that are absolutely meaningful. The export efforts are also intended to help to move something. By the way, we have also done something that may have missed your attention: From January onwards, there will be an additional wage reduction of 2 billion schilling or 140 million € for older employees. This is a very important step, and 2 billion schillings are not just a few! They're getting rid of them massively, and that's right. And that through the prize of € 1,000 for the apprentices practically the cost of the vocational school for the apprenticeship training firms is taken over in a solid model by the taxpayer, is also not to be rejected and, I believe, a very reasonable thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The construction measures are also effective in the short term. But other things – and for that I am – are even more important because they improve our location in the medium and longer term: infrastructure, research efforts, enlargement, investment in border regions. These are the issues on which we now have to start. That's why this program really deserves the name of a growth package and site security! Now on the question: Taxation or excruciation: That's what I can call the numbers, but I'm not happy. Of course, the next tax reform will be the largest – that is not art either, because we simply have more gross domestic product, and in absolute figures that will definitely be the greatest. But our ambition must be to make it a structural reform. We must bring this together: not just to distribute a few sugars, but a structural change, which in the long term, Austria, in turn, does well. As far as the burden is concerned: You are right, we have done some things, yes, we have to do those things that have meant a burden. Some were also quite inspired by the opposition in the weighting. However, what we have seen since the peak of the 2001 tax rate is a 1.8% reduction in the tax rate. And 1.8 percentage points mean, translated on practical terms, a burden of almost €4 billion. So let us stop with the legends from the height of the load wave! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Since then, we have a burden wave of around €4 billion. Last point: Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you know that I appreciate you very much, even if we have a hundred different opinions. But that's not the point. It is important to me what is happening now in the light of a decision the government had to make – and believe me, we have not made it easy; we are doing so also out of best knowledge and conscience! – a reform which we are now presenting to Parliament and which will be discussed in Parliament. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I think it would be wise if the fact that a draft for discussion is now in place in Parliament would not be used as a strike. I think there are plenty of ways to talk. You know – and I never talk about private conversations – the door is open. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Please send me to you and to She's all here in the high house: Let us try to rebuild the conversation bridges and, above all, try to relieve the people who are concerned outside and who are burdened by these burdens. I would like this to be the message of the House today.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8877	I have now approved 1 minute more after a recent consideration, because the Federal Chancellor was at an important passage. I'll take one minute to the next ÖVP owner. Mr Gorbach. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8898	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen. I can continue where the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has found the final word in his replica, namely what this government is doing in particular: It is not only a reform government, it is also a dialogue government. We are always looking for dialogue wherever it goes, because not by chance I also personally discussed with the head of the railway industry 14 times in the ÖBB-Reform discussion, not only per forma for half an hour. No, we have meant this honestly, we have also adopted a lot of proposals from him, and these have been incorporated into the draft law and into the law as we decided last Tuesday, i.e. yesterday, in the Council of Ministers. Only, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing – and I am very close to the German Chancellor – to throw up the little wooden exclusively on such an important question in political terms or, on the other hand, to push the black Peter. I think it must be an interest of all of us to make this important mode of transport – this important transport facility, as has already been established today – a modern, dynamic and competitive company that we can all be proud of, which is a piece of Austrian identity and in which the employees are motivated, because they are employed in a modern, fleeting, forward-looking company. That must be it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr President, you have accused us of being immobile. I cannot let this accusation apply. But it's not possible that my partner, my visa fish, says: Okay, we can talk about non-stretching, for example, if everything that is service law is not poured into a law, but we negotiate it. – Yes, you could have done that so far! Or if he says: The structure of the ÖBB must not be as you propose it, but we only share in sales and infrastructure. – But we don't want to. These are the key points of this reform, and if you want them to be taken back, it will be difficult to move so far that you are together. By the way, I also wondered about the following. Yesterday, on Monday, we negotiated five hours, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. In the afternoon I then wondered that this listing was already read in a newspaper a half hour later. One must have known, therefore, that these negotiations do not end with a peaceful compromise: that one does not come together, but that one wants to strike, ladies and gentlemen! I've been a little surprised by that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Honourable Members! It has been said today that the weighting between the middle use for the road and that for the rail does not agree. To make this clear once and for all: There is a general transport plan in Austria, which I naturally follow. In this general transport plan, Austria, total investment projects amounting to €45 billion, including 30 billion for rail, 15 billion for road and 0.5 billion for shipping. So the weighting is: two thirds of the rail, one third of the road, and that is, as I mean, very good and fine. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger:... do not finance!]] It also includes – and I have to look in your direction now – a certain need for reflection, which has accumulated in recent decades. [[towards SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also part of a growth programme that you are on the road internationally and see that in international networking, for example, the TENs, the Trans-European Networks, do not pass Austria, but that this is chordd. It is gratifying – and this was also a reason why I liked to drive to Brussels yesterday – that in the so-called "Quick-Start List" of those projects that are starting immediately, the European Growth and Economic Initiative Programme, no less than six projects in Austria appear, and very important. The number one is the Brenner Base Tunnel, and there are also the A 5 Vienna–Brünn, the Munich–Freilassing rail network, the Vienna–Bratislava rail network, the Vienna–Bratislava waterway, the Budapest–Sopron–Vienna rail network. They are inside and are co-financed with 30 percent of the EU. Do you think that's self-evident? – No, since you often have to be there, these projects have to make important, must be prepared for yourself, must have made them ready for construction!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8969	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8990	Finally, ladies and gentlemen, because you are concerned about the Austrian Federal Railways: Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer said that the ÖBB is at risk of existence. I'll give you the right again, she's still at risk. But the reform is coming, that's why it's safe for the future! We do this entirely in the sense of Goethe, who once said: “In order to maintain storage value, we need to change it.” [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That's what we do!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9027	I suggest that the remaining speaking times are 5 minutes each. Is there any objection? – That is not the case, so we will do so. Mr Neugebauer will make a small contribution. The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9051	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! You have to agree with Mr Vice-Chancellor again: To make it better, we need a change. Only if we needed a change on the government bank, that would be the decisive thing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That won't be easy!]] I now come to Mr Scheibner. He had problems with hearing earlier; he also had them with reading and computing. [[The speaker holds a document with a graphic in height.]] I'm taking an ÖVP paper so you won't be insulted by opposition papers: “Between 1995 and 1999 the F&E quota was increased by 0.29 percent from 1.57 to 1.86.” – Yes, the ÖVP may lie in this case; that’s what you say, not me... [[Abg. Scheibner: (keeping a graphic in height) That's not interested!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9108	Mr Matznetter, please don't!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9123	I didn't say that! Mr Scheibner says that. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] And from 1999 to 2002, 0.09 percent, my colleague. These are the data they really are, except the ÖVP issues false documents. [[Abg. Scheibner: My data is from the ÖSTAT – and not from the ÖVP!]] Let us, however, turn to the main problem, ladies and gentlemen. We are in a situation where the country is experiencing difficult economic development. There is strong criticism by the OECD of our economic policy. In this case – where is Herbert Haupt today? – one must agree with Mr Ex-Vizekanzler: [[Call the Freeman: Get on the government bank!]] The economic policy of Bartenstein and Grasser failed. You were right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] But let us now turn to what you are ashamed of not even calling yourself an economic package. Point one... [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Is growth a bad thing?]] No, my colleague. I'll come back to that! There was a pack on the stand “Economic Package”. These are a few points, and this has already been said by Mr Van der Bellen and also by Mr Gusenbauer, who is quite worthy of approval. One point is the question of structural development in research. But what's missing is more money. Professor Kramer says an important sentence in today’s “standard”: “We still have nothing, but that’s at least fixed!” – So much to comment on the economic researchers for raising the research budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: quote completely!]] It's a shame, ladies and gentlemen! Again, with a great deal of tinnober, something is announced, which does not increase the means in detail when carefully considered. The National Bank's anniversary fund has so far been spent €70 million. Now 9 million are left there, 61 of whom have been taken €70 million so far and increased to 75 million. Of course we are looking forward to the 14 million €, ladies and gentlemen, but that is too little! You could have our full support if you took clearer and more courageous steps here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] That, Mr Molterer, was what was sent to the honourable Member at 8 p.m. in the closed envelope, but not to the clubs. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] And you knew why: Two thirds of these are quite normal legislative measures – the budget violation law – and have nothing to do with our economic capital. With the few that has been implemented in it, I still deal with it later. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You've had it!]] This brings me to the ÖVP Action Plan, 13 pages text. This came on the occasion of the ÖVP meeting in St. Wolfgang. – By the way, it is funny that you have just chosen this place for it. – In this plan there are a few points that we expressly welcome, for example our demand for extension of investment promotion – done, but too little. If you had agreed to our request, we would have an extended IFB and therefore more funds for the economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, we find consecrations of the past: Investments from 1999 to 2006 – most of them are past. But in the middle of it – and we should focus on what the focus of the ÖVP is on – is our own determination, so that people – what does it say here is so beautiful? – “Top leaders” – will be enabled to come to the country and take along their traditional support and home staff. Those who think that their chamber rate is better than – from their point of view! – the “innates” from Austria, such top key forces we will not need, I think. So these are the priorities set by the ÖVP. You should explain here for which individuals They make their own laws here. This would do well to represent the truth of this policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Ikrath: And what are your suggestions?]] Let me conclude by saying something about your “relief package”. – Where is the colleague Bleckmann? - She's up there! – There is an error in the calculation, which Professor Van der Bellen has already mentioned in the introduction: It is a burden of € 221 million and not a charge, Mrs Colleague. You have decided on a tax package! You couldn't even count on it right. And it happened that we rejected it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9294	The next speaker is Mr Neugebauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9312	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Apart from black and white painting – one should just say that Austria is just ahead of the abyss, if one takes seriously some of the speakers of the opposition – I would like to draw your attention to 2000, namely the Lisbon European Council and its objective of making Europe the most competitive, knowledge-based economic area in the world by 2010. The updated synthesis reports include structural indicators which represent the ranking of Member States in terms of competitiveness. And there Austria – on the edge of the abyss – is on average seventh place in all individual placements. But particularly interesting and revealing is a look at strengths and weaknesses: We have third place in cohesion in the European ranking, first place in the quality of the environment and in terms of quality of life not only in Europe, but first in the world. I think we can be proud of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That's the most encouraging side. Of course, however, there are also weaknesses, weaknesses in the ranking, for example in innovation and research and in overall economic development. Here we are in the eleventh place. Therefore: When, if not now, a strengthening of direct research funding is particularly important, and this growth package makes a very important contribution to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr Mag. Kogler not here, which I always like to listen to and his arguments, which he always spicy well, I gout. However: What is packed here and what is used responsibly in tax money, to compare with an old box, with cuddly slippers, I do not think appropriate to the occasion and importance of this package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen. In addition to research, the capital strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises is an important point. This is particularly true of the 1st century. May 2004 with regard to competitiveness after the opening of the east. The infrastructure offensive has already been addressed by Mr Vice-Chancellor. I am concerned about the input into work and employment, with the emphasis on youth and training. And of course, Mr President, it is also part of the fact that you are painting black and white. [[in the direction of the Abg. Verbatim]] Of course, every unemployed person is one too much. On the other hand, it can also be said that, through the cooperation of the social partners, we have now reached a record level employment level. This is the positive side of the employment medal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This package will now use almost €200 million for the target group of young people. As has already been said, the € 1 000 has already been used by 65 000 funding cases in the course of the tax charge. If, at the end of last month, the educational contracts concluded have increased by 1.8 percent compared with the comparison period of the previous year, this measure will be clear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] One important point that we have always formulated on the part of the trade union movement is the modularization of the dual system. The dual education system in the economy is an Austrian demonstration project that we, ladies and gentlemen, can now achieve better in the future with a basic summary of 206 teaching professions on a total of 100 basic models than before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I congratulate Egon Blum for bringing him on board. He not only stands for excellent apprenticeship training, he also has a heart for the workers and he is not an unknown person in the trade union movement. I should like to congratulate such a man of the economy on the apprenticeship offensive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! “It’s better not to wait for the evidence of a crisis, but to remove the ground through a self-confident growth strategy.” – quoted Professor Aigerger of the Wifo. I don't have anything to add to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9415	Mrs Sburny. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9434	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! High house! Investment in research and development is proven to be important for a country's economic growth, and in this sense we welcome in principle the attempt to increase the flow of funds here. That is, in principle, we think it is right to invest here. This is precisely because we find that important, but we have also looked more closely at what is actually hidden among the great words. Some of these have already been mentioned by Mr Matznetter. There are very few additional resources. I would like to address the National Foundation very specifically, because, from your point of view and as you constantly present it, the central point in your package is research and development. There's some need for information. Even the Governor of the National Bank, which makes substantial resources available for this, says: There are no additional resources here. This is also easy to understand when you look at how it has been so far. Up to now, revenues from the National Bank have been transferred to the budget, and these revenues are no longer going into the budget, but into the National Foundation. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Eben!]] That is, the only thing that happens is that part of the funds are not going into the budget, but into the foundation. This is to be welcomed in principle, because if you look at what the Minister of Finance is doing with the resources in the budget, you can only be glad if they are at least once devoted to research. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] So far, so good! But there are no additional means. They are once intended for research. The same applies to the funds from the ERP Fund, which are not, by the way, secured, as is always claimed. They are still not secured, and there is no agreement with the USA here, and I would like to say that here too. But we wish, of course, we also wish. Let us take a look at the construction of this National Foundation! – It is expected to have around € 125 million at its disposal. So far, the money that has come from the OeNB has gone directly to the FFF and the FWF, i.e. to the two major research funding funds of the industrial economy and universities. Now they're in the National Fund. Who decides about it now? That is why I am grateful that Mr Molterer has drawn our attention to the fact that the Foundation's law has been in place since early today, because now we have it black on white. There are two institutions of this foundation, the Foundation Council and the Board of Directors, and it is worth looking at both. The Foundation Council consists of five eligible persons who come from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Education and the BMWA – infrastructure, apologies, now I have called the BMWA double. Four ministers or three ministers and a minister sit inside and someone from the OeNB who is making the money available. These are the members of the Foundation Council plus two consultants from the Research and Technology Development Council. Point two: The Board of Directors, two members of the Executive Board who are called by the Federal Ministry of Finance and Economy and Work, and who – and this is interesting now, can actually be seen in the law – can also come from an institution that is favoured by the funds, and this is, for example, just as it is in a paper from the research dialogue, also the AWS, the Austrian Economic Service, in which all federal funding is combined and the Minister Bartenstein is subject. This means a staff union between the Managing Directors of the AWS, as it has been called, and the National Foundation's Board of Directors. In addition, there is a Stiftungsrat, which is almost exclusively occupied by Ministries, one of which is a model of competence, which has already existed in the research funding landscape. I really wish you a lot of pleasure in the allocation of funds from this National Fund! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can imagine how such a thing happens: Originally, there was a desire to get out of the budget to set up extra-budgetary funds for research. However, this will be completely abolished, negatively because four ministries plus two managing directors, which are likely to come from the AWS, will determine where it is going. That means whether basic research will actually get enough money and how otherwise it looks, you will only see that. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] My final sentence: Whoever was in the research dialogue and saw that among 50 members of the economy, science and research was not a single woman, he knows why we have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9546	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9564	Mr President. Mr. Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the hope that this morning as many viewers as possible will watch the television broadcast, because then they will notice the difference: They will follow the polemics of the opposition, they will pursue the constructive work of the coalition. And one thing is sure: The comparison will make them safe! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Something is moving in this country, something is changing in this country, something is improving in that country. Many things of the package presented today have already been mentioned. Many key points have already been mentioned, and one really does not want to repeat anything that has already been said today. It may, however, be good to repeat a number of things, on the one hand, for the spectators who have time to pursue this during the lunch break, on the other hand, for colleagues of the opposition who have not yet found the time to read it, but on the other hand find time to criticize things, such as increasing investment, strengthening the labour market, improving the competitiveness of this country. In combination with the entry into force of the tax reform with 1. January 2004 – and it is decided and it will come – will be a discharge of small and medium-sized incomes. 14 500 € tax-free! There will be a halving of the tax rate for not collected profits, there will be a withdrawal of the 13. VAT on sales. These are things that move something. This can also be seen in combination with other facts from this package. I do not want to deal with the major points, but there have also been two small decisions, which are particularly important for agricultural representatives: We have decided a package of measures of over €50 million for a biomass offensive. Strengthening renewable energy also means strengthening rural areas. These are incentives for which we would also expect approval from the opposition, so to speak, from the left wing of the Reich. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] Together with colleagues Grillitsch, we have worked to improve taxation for the agricultural community. We've managed a lot. All this, combined with billions of euros for rail, road, transport and SMEs, ladies and gentlemen, shows: We're working for this country while you're running, yelling and stretching. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: At the election results in Upper Austria you can see it!]] Mrs Glavischnig, I am coming to speak to you anyway, which is quite right for you to listen so attentively. If you stand out here today and have a problem with the Vetoceule threat, then the Greens will finally be out as those who want to adopt the principle of unanimity of the EU in important things. What's the veto threat? It is nothing but working with unanimity! There will also be other points. We'll talk about the water, about the sale of the home, and then we'll see where the greens are at home. We liberals and also our colleagues from the coalition will not allow that. We insist that there must be unanimity in the European Union on important issues and that they remain. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: What does this have to do with the Vetoceule?]] As much has already been said about transit today: Colleague Puswald – he's probably just at lunch, he's been hungry – has announced an interesting call for interim work out here today. While some of our colleagues spoke about the railway, an intermediate call came to him: Yes, are you already on the track today or sometime? – Do you know, ladies and gentlemen of the Reds, what he answered? - I'm not down! Thank you for this solidarity, I can only say. Bravo! This is living socialism – I really have to say that – when a Member says: I'm not down! I have to say, honestly, that we have the answer, because we have no problem. We'll take over from the coalition! And as a small answer to your table of today’s morning “Save the track” we have an answer: “We’re saving the train!” - That's not a question! [[The speaker places a panel on the speaker's desk.]] Mr. Gorbach will save the train! You can be convinced of this, because we, ladies and gentlemen, will not let the ÖBB be derailed! We'll re-set the course! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig keeps a panel up.]] We will ensure that these rusted movements, which have not set red raunzers for decades, are finally renewed – but not in order to continue writing privileges, not in order to prolong the proportion, and not at all, to make it difficult for Austrians to come to their workplace, to come to school and thus endanger Austria's economic location. Mrs Glavischnig, I have to speak to you once again because you have such a great board. The fact that Minister of Finance is Grasser, not one of my intimate friends, is well-known, but one thing I have to say: I have done the job – your clubman has said something in the direction that Grasser is going through the country too fast –: Go to geolook.at and enter the route planner Vienna – Bad St. Leonhard. Route planners say these are 2 hours 23 minutes. If you want to go somewhere to work, you can do it. If you are just running, yelling and stretching, the Republic will not end well! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9683	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9704	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! So you should certainly not make Austria worse than it is, and you should not be sick, but it is also important that you look at reality, and an external assessment is very useful for this view of reality, I think. In the last OECD report, the assessment begins with the following sentence in the Recommendation Chapter: ‘Austria has been a well performing economy, but less so in recent years.’ That is, Austria has run a good economy, but not so well in recent years. I think that is a point you really have to take very seriously, because otherwise you can't estimate what we're actually talking about here. Actually, it was this black and blue government that led Austria to the situation in which we are currently in, so that the international evaluation also expresses this: The growth rates in Austria are no longer sufficient to secure employment, quite the contrary, unemployment is constantly increasing dramatically. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present this matter again. We have 240 000 unemployed in Austria, which corresponds to the number of inhabitants of Graz, and this number will increase. I also figured out what it cost. This unemployment costs the Austrians €5 billion. This is a dramatic situation that we cannot really be based on ourselves. In this context, I am very grateful to Mr Molterer, for he has said something sensational from my point of view today. I have heard from this Federal Government for the first time in four years that it views full employment as its most important economic policy objective. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You listen too little!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: You didn't listen to that right! You've been listening to that for the first time today!]] I hope the others know that too, because you have repeated in a second sentence that completely different goals are in the foreground. Of course, we have always stood up for this goal, only the way separates us. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Yes!]] The way separates us. What are you doing about it? – You have today presented a package that originally traded under the name "Economic Package III". There was a discussion with Mr Aigiger, who had left the ÖVP, and he said that this was not an economic package at all. It has some growth effect in the medium term, but there is nothing to be seen in economic terms at all. However, they present this to us yesterday and today as a growth and site assurance package. There is absolutely nothing to be seen about economic policy, and that can be proved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have said it again and again here: Not only does the Austrian Economic Service Funding Society no longer work and need to be reassembled with new managing directors, but also funds from Brussels are not used. We leave 100 million € in the structural area alone, because there is no co-financing at the federal or country level. We leave 100 million € in Brussels! The same applies to infrastructure measures. The use of these funds for such projects has also not taken place. The only place it works and where Austria is a net recipient is agriculture. There's more out there than we give in. But that it does not take advantage of the other areas, that is actually a matter for massive criticism of the government. [[Abg. Grill: Call the numbers!]] A next point I would like to highlight as very important, because Mr Gorbach has said – and I am going to say so – that he is for broadband infrastructure development. [[Abg. Grill: Call the numbers!]] This too, I believe, is an important point in ensuring the accessibility of the last regions. He mentioned a sum of €30 million. I inquired, and I figured this out. There is a program of €160 million here. We could do that right away. This is not done because one does not wish to support this aspect accordingly. [[Abg. Head: You had 30 years to do so!]] My professional experience has shown the following: Whenever someone in a company does not bring anything together in the short term, he flees into the future, then he makes long-term programmes, and exactly this long-term programme is actually such a point to escape from the present, because here nothing has been brought together. Finally, I would like to quote a very well-known economist whose teaching opinion is still essential for design in many areas, namely John Maynard Keynes: John Maynard Keynes said: In the long run we are all dead. So we're all dead in the long run. I therefore call on the government to act now to take measures to ensure that the effect comes next year, takes place immediately, and not in ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9831	The next speaker was Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9850	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in Parliament! Today, once again, the unique opportunity has been to show the Austrians who really has the competence in this country, who really governs this country with a sense of responsibility and who also offers people predictability. This is this federal government, which is not dealing with reforms from the past, but simply with new concepts, with the will to change, with a spirit of enterprise and also with a willingness to take risks, in order to adapt our structures of time and thus also to give people security for the future. Do not break down, do not destroy, do not insecure the way of this federal government, but it is important to give security to people in this country, to give the security that is necessary to be able to make the future responsibly. One has certainly changed, and that has shown itself again today, namely the image of the SPÖ. I've always assumed that SPÖ is a state-bearing party. Since today, I've been saying: It was her! At the latest since today, I've been saying: It was her. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] They have changed to insecurers; You have changed to sick people; and I ask you... [[Abg. Protest: Don't think about the farmer demonstrations anymore!]] Where have farmers' demonstrations been in recent years, Mr. Vergestnitsch? – Your conservation policy will have no future. I'm convinced of that. They have a high degree of damage to this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Whoever has the answer to be able to rule Austria, I believe, in turn, is clear and clear at the latest since today: This federal government, this team of Wolfgang Schüssel can do that. [[Abg. Dr. One: Oh, that's it?]] [[Abg. Dr. One: How do you get on it?]] I therefore believe that the right measures have been presented here today at the right time. The 2004 tax reform is known as: 200 000 Austrians with an annual gross income of up to €14 500 are tax-free. Sustainability – also a topic of the future, although probably not for all here in this House – is also set out in the tax reform accordingly. This is a question of burdening people's work accordingly, but of burdening resources and the environment accordingly. In addition, this growth package, which has been mentioned many times today. In particular for rural areas, for rural areas as an economic location, there are two very crucial points in this. This is, on the one hand, the promotion of biomass – that is, the increased use of new technologies of domestic potential in order to create work and at the same time make a significant contribution to the environment, as it is about jobs in rural areas in the field of the domestic economy, in the field of the domestic industry – which is, on the other hand, broadband technology. In particular, I am very grateful to our infrastructure minister Gorbach and this Federal Government because this technology offers the opportunity to bring the world to the village and vice versa to the world. There must be the possibility that everyone can participate in this broadband technology, because we can also provide a distance reduction, exchange information faster, put our services, our ideas, our landscape and the like more into the world, and also market them accordingly with new marketing strategies. That is why I am convinced that this growth package is really a good one, because its measures are also aimed at securing rural areas as an economic location. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have seen who is responsible, who is competently shaping the future of Austria. That's us, that's this coalition, that's this federal government! That's not you, is it? Here you can see who the future designers are – and who the denyers of the future are.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9928	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9946	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! We have already heard here several times that you should not paint black and white – I give you the right, so I will not do it either – and I also admit that Austria is not in the abyss, but between abyss and world class are still a few kilometers or, as you would say, quantum leaps, and it is important to talk about that. Van der Bellen has, of course, correctly noted that it is a step forward if your initiatives provide a certain degree of planning certainty for the research funds. I don't want to correct my boss, so to speak, but you know, planning security is something elementary in research, something international, of course, and not something you need to serve on the silver tablet now and then rejoice. This planning security is necessary because it is otherwise impossible to keep long-term strategies in planning. As you – certainly very skillful and advertising-effective – in the reform dialogue Their initiatives four weeks before the 6th. In December, this reminds me of the habit of a Nikolos, who expects all children to be very nice and then clap like it. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] In this project, however, some of the nuts – I would say – are hidden, which must first be cracked. They have provided incentives for tax incentives for research in enterprises, in the economy, in industry. That is good and right, I would also underline that and confess to it. But experts note that in terms of research funding, the economy has a need for a further increase of €2 billion. Whether these tax incentives can trigger investments of € 2 billion by 2006 is in the stars, and I mean, government cannot take place after horoscopes. So that's too little for me, you'll have to watch it. They have now invented a new vocabulary, called “new money, ” next to“ world class, ” “millstones, ” and “quantity jumps. ” – If you look at what the “money” “new” is, then you’ll see that there are some flowers, that is, false notes, hidden in that much of what you’re now quoting as growth, to and for yourself were promises and contractual ties of recent years. For example, the National Bank has already invested between €60 million and €70 million annually in the funds in the last three years, which is supposed to make money flow into a foundation. But more planning security is available. While you have set the high goal – and this is important for Austria, for the prosperity, for the economic location – to promote research and technology, and for 2.5 percent of gross domestic product for the research and technology budget, your own technology report, Mr. Bundeskanzler – the Federal Government's Technology Report, partly written by the Council for Research and Technology Development – says that there is a funding gap to the current level of €3.2 billion. I haven't heard anything about that so far. [[Abg. May. Molterer: (since a servant of the house panels is removed from the ranks of SPÖ delegates) please leave the tables!]] If I also see which houses you are planning – for example, the House of Research – and how you structure them, how you want to occupy them – like a four-leaf clover; four ministries are supposed to be there, four ministers are supposed to sit in there – then I have to say: It brings such a four-leaf clover, I think research is not very lucky, because it poses the danger of politically controlled influence. It is also somehow hidden in a label flaw because you cannot strongly separate between applied research, structural improvement and pure economic promotion. If I had taken my beloved grandmother's snowbow 20 or 30 years ago and given a hand-mixer to Christmas or Easter or Nikolo, that would have been a sign of sympathy, perhaps a sign that her kitchen tasted to me, but I couldn't have sold it as a technology push. In my opinion, however, this is happening in the Federal Government. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] To conclude: The political influence on the funds is almost obvious when it is said that they should narrow down their curatories and delegates' meetings. I was in such a curatorium – in that of the FWF – and I can tell you that the work was done there cleanly and absolutely according to international standards. I do not think that four ministers and some of them have ordered more councils to make it cleaner and unwarranted than they have done so far. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: I do not intend to do this either, Mr. Colleague.]] Since you do not mention the universities directly and directly in this programme, I say to you at the end of the day: The rectors' conference has set up a working group that has calculated the additional cost of the solution of medicine from the university as a whole. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Talk time!]] In Innsbruck alone as a location such as a new medical university, the direct implementation costs are over € 1 billion and the annual running costs € 4 million. The chairman of the founding convention, the transplant surgeon Magreiter, has calculated that this money could have created 85 places for young scientists. This is to be considered, and you should really consider what measures you have taken, the research and technology are useful and which are not. I would like to welcome the dialogue if it does not end with the fact that in February or March we can only hear what you have agreed and made out behind closed doors. I would like to discuss – not in black-and-white, not in blue-black, but in a drawing that reflects reality. But I lack a lot of reality in your program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10032	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10051	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard a lot today from the opposition parties about empty announcements, empty promises, hot air as far as the economic package is concerned. [[Abg. Dr. One: There's nothing to add to it!]] I would like to add something, Mr President, that is a motion for a resolution. I have made the effort to get you on track of what you are actually planning to do, what economic-enhancing measures you imagine that the economy should bring to the fore. ==References== A motion for a resolution on October, in which you presented your economic recovery package. It begins with the socio-democratic programme for economic recovery, leads to infrastructure investment, to more purchasing power in Austria – all of which one does not want to contradict and cannot contradict – up to the statement – this confession is very remarkable, ladies and gentlemen – that the SPÖ confesses to creating a balanced budget beyond the economic cycle. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Look here!]] I am still talking about how serious this is, because it is in all cases right, as the proposal says, that there should be effective measures and there must be to boost the economy in Austria. – That’s how far we are d’accord. However, if you look at everything you want to do in detail – I do not know how many of you have looked at this motion for a resolution; this is the talk of a tax reduction up to a billion €, the economy is to receive a billion €, for education and training, for universities are to be made available a few hundred million, for development aid projects several hundred million, including business succession, business succession, venture capital – and if you calculate what this is cost, then you will find: That's a total of €4-5 billion. – This is the SPÖ’s program: 4 to 5 billion € simply so with the casting pot for all the desires there is to pour out over our country. This is your economic promotion programme! In this resolution, however, there is no single sentence to read how you want to finance what you intend to do in order to achieve your goal of creating a budget that is balanced beyond the economic cycle. [[Abg. Head: We've known that before!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you are making an active tax debt policy which, of course, makes our country slip further into debt traps. That cannot be the goal of a federal government! I am very happy that you do not have the responsibility to carry on with regard to the budget and the management of our country, because you will not be able to re-emerge on the question of how you want to finance this foundry policy, this allocation of funds of over €4 billion, which you put into space here. At the same time, you refuse to participate in the reforms, whether this is the ÖBB, the mailboxes or the AUA. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that the trade union can be used to act as a union for the pilots and for the captains who earn €12 000 to €13 000 a month and to support them in their demands. It is also worth noting that it was not even a question of earning less, but only of having to be more modest at the biennial jumps in the future. Who They are working around here to represent a tax policy crediblely or to announce economic growth, which is not an approach we can approach. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that this federal government is on the right track with this economic package, this growth package. This growth package will put in place, in total, very appropriate measures, starting from 1. In January 2004 we will be entering into force and provide a good basis for our country's economic development as well as ensuring a good economic development for the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10123	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Trunk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10141	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Very short to my colleague. Booker: Your speech was less of conjuncture-political maneuvering than rather of lavish drawing! A sentence on the colleague Scheuch, who spoke earlier about the raunzers and fighters: Raunzen and fighting is associated with a name, Jörg Haider. He does this permanently in Carinthia, and if Mr Scheuch is random in Carinthia at his side, he does exactly the opposite! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now to the actual declaration of government – by the way, the x-ten of this Federal Chancellor and the x-ten of a vice chancellor, because they change continuously. [[Abg. Neudeck: You haven't been to Carinthia for a long time, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What am I doing the opposite?]] Very soon: What connects all these statements and also these “councils ”? – First, a consequence, namely the refusal of reality; second, the refusal of conversation on bending and breaking – the ÖBB is not out of lust and mood, but you drive them towards these measures! – and thirdly, a short-term activism, which you call economic or financial policy from the Government Bank. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is just your trouble, because you have not become top candidate in Carinthia!]] The Federal Chancellor used the term “growth” three times. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Prevented top candidate!]] What has grown in Austria? – The number of unemployed people has grown, the poverty of the people has grown, the uncertainty has grown and the perspektivelessness has grown not only but also especially the young people in Austria. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It's different in Carinthia!]] An increase of 10 percent for the unemployed and the unemployed is worrying. This is a dramatic growth, and you have no concept against it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Mostly in Vienna!]] Last point: Previously, Mr Neugebauer referred to Lisbon and its objectives. Of course, the non-presence of a so-called women's minister and the long-sleeping consistent silence – of course also in this context – is also the women's spokesman of the ÖVP, which is not by chance top candidate in Carinthia. That's the record of this government. – What should be noted about their actions? This government has increased the last tax – but perhaps you still think something. She has shortened the last pension, has ruined the last state property, and now you are in the process of waging war against the ÖBB and against security in Austria. – The Minister of the Interior is not here at all. Federal Chancellor Schüssel has the responsibility for many things, but for one thing very special: He is the Federal Chancellor of the Second Republic, who has made most of the declarations of war against affected people and groups in Austria, and that is what he calls the government programme. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Why are you talking about “war”?]] You're tearing down the ÖBB, you're cutting the executive now. [[Abg. Head: Here you confused the direction of the declaration of war!]] – You should point out that you look quite similar to Mr Strasser! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You impoverished the word “war”!]] What are the prospects? - I can take a short look. Your President of the Chamber of Economics, Leitl, has the debate you have held on economics and tax reform – I quote Leitl! – called “merciful” and evaluated with a smooth failure. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's where the Ambrozy is responsible!]] I give him the right, because your economic packages are characterized by three main features – I formulate it a little more charming than Leitl –: too late, too little and too little effective. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Charming is nothing to you!]] A striking example: In his press release, the Federal Chancellor pointed out yesterday that an economic activity “recording” thing had to be built in Vienna. That is what the Federal Chancellor calls an example of economic recovery! Do you know what that is? – This is not an example of economic recovery, it is a merciless embarrassment! The fact that we have to build prisons, on the other hand, is an example and a proof of the missing law-and-order policy of this federal government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Last point: Mr Scheucher of the FPÖ, who made the comment here, and Mr Bundeskanzler – he is not here, so Mr Finz has to listen to this – you will have to make it happen that I am going to bring you facts about Carinthia, especially since you, Mr Scheuch, have previously held a plea for the misgovernment policy: Carinthia is unfortunately a leader in per capita debt and final light in purchasing power and per capita income, and the unemployment rate is also growing dramatically. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: 30 years of red captain is not good in a few years!]] But what does the covenant do? – 12.3 percent more unemployed, and the competent minister reduces the AMS funds by exactly 12 percent. This is a policy we cannot share! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: This is a fool!]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: Where did you get these numbers?]] The same happens in the security area. The people in Carinthia – I am not saying this from local patriotism, but because it is a fact – have to endure all of this with double hardness and brutality because they are met by the black and blue federal government and at home in Carinthia as well. Unfortunately, this distinguishes us from the Viennan women we do not envy, but I think that this non-government will have an end, and we will no longer have to envy them. [[Abg. Neudeck: I think so!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's right! The Vienneses are really not to be felled!]] This federal government will have an end and this dramatic non-government in Carinthia too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One last word to you from the FPÖ and also from the Federal Chancellor, who is so pleased to hear the word “truth”: The truth is reasonable to people. However, your government performance and your actions are unreasonable for people, and the same applies to the merciless silence – not the charm! – the top candidate of the ÖVP from Carinthia, Elisabeth Scheucher, who consistently conceals all these questions.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10452	The next item is the report by Mr Deputies Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10471	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Trunk, so that there is no confusion: I'm not the Minister Strasser, but I'm very likely to identify with his policy. [[Abg. May. Trunk: “Similarly” I said!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: But you do not qualify...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Previously, Mr Moser tried to find out the difference between the economic package and the growth package. It is indeed true that this package, which we have presented here, deliberately bears the name “growth package”. For example, Professor Kramer, whom you have already quoted very selectively and not fully today, said that, fortunately, the package is not an attempt to create short-term economic demand. According to Kramer, recipes of a purely demand-oriented policy have long been passé. Moser quoted Keynes, who said: “In the long run we are all dead.” – That’s right. After this guidance, you have actually been aiming for a long time. [[Abg. Mandak: Does that apply to marathon runners too?]] [[Abg. May. Hans Moser: You too!]] Mr Moser, you have pursued a policy of short-term wealth in the past years at the expense of the future. We are therefore actually close to the statement of Keynes, which you have quoted before, with the current level of debt and the current rate of interest. That is why we have also made this change of course. [[Abg. May. Hans Moser: In the short run!]] The package that is now on the table does not actually try to generate, at the expense of the future, short-term expenditure which, as Kramer says correctly, would be purely demand-oriented and would not develop its effectiveness. He says that this policy has long passed and is no longer effective. Although it leads to higher expenditure, it cannot guarantee that demand will be generated in any way and the economy will be revived. So, with our policy, we focus on structurally effective research and development measures. This is probably undisputed, as this will allow the economic location to be secured in the long term and also to grow in the long term. The same applies to investment and the promotion of the same, in the area of strengthening the capital base of businesses, in support of exports – it was at the end of the day the exports that have given us economic growth over the last months and one, two years – for the topic of new start-ups and support in the field of infrastructure. – These are not measures that create short-term demand, but they strengthen the economic structure of a country and are suitable to bring it into the long-term that stability and economic growth that it takes to meet its social obligations and to ensure the prosperity of people that they have also developed in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A final comment on the subject of ÖBB: Mr Gorbach has rightly and necessarily pointed out how important this company is for the economy and the people of that country. Social Democratic Transport Ministers in recent decades have managed to lead this company into a situation in which there is a total of €4.4 billion per year of federal aid from tax resources and is still not competitive in many areas, although progress has been made in some areas. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Including pensions! You're fair to say that!]] For example, goods transport has become better and more competitive. What happened to these funds? It has created structures in this company in the form of pension systems and over-exploited staff levels, which are in particular purely expenditure effective, namely consumption, but unfortunately this money has not flown into a competitive infrastructure of the railways. [[Abg. Mandak: Don't you want pensions?]] What we are doing now is nothing but preventing what would be the result of your failure to act or your wrong action over the last decades. If one continued, this company would actually be led into ruin. With the reforms we are now carrying out, we prevent this and secure the railway a good future, not least for the benefit of the people in Austria, but also not least for the benefit of the people who work in the Bundesbahn.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10615	Next item is the report by Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10633	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister Gorbach referred to earlier: Wake up the train! He called this into the hall, so to speak, she's asleep. – I thought so too. As long as Director-General Draxler worked there, there was no need to wake up the train. It has worked very advancedly, and the transport of goods, as has been confirmed by the honourable Member's head, has brought decent revenues and passenger transport as well. But since Mrs. Forstinger set up a new management, the new minister has to call: Wake up the train! It seems that the responsibility lies not with the Social Democrats, but with this government. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Individuals are solely responsible for the current situation in Austria, namely the government, the Minister Gorbach, the Federal Chancellor and the Finance Minister All who bear responsibility for the fact that we currently have a situation in Austria where the ÖVP delegates coming from the economy suddenly sue the economic location and say how important the railway is for Austria and how important this economic package, which has now been tied up, is. [[Abg. Grossruck: Haberzettl!]] [[Abg. Großruck: Haberzettl, Vergestnitsch and so on!]] If you look closely at this, you can see very quickly that there is no additional funding at all at this time and that one third more investment is needed to boost the Austrian economy halfway. But what is happening in fact? – I have a financing document – source: ÖBB – get, according to which the estimated funds from the Minister of Finance amount to very close to €1.95 billion per year. However, if you look at all the costs related to the 6 billion discharges and to-and-re money transactions, then you can expect the railway to invest only €0.4 billion per year after deduction of all these funds – for example, financing costs, public services and so on. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: back and forth money business? What kind of business is that?]] – That’s the reality! There's nothing to pray about, but it's just the same as it is in a statistics of the head of the railway, and he has to know what he's talking about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's why we have to change it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to give you today, in the form of a motion for a resolution, the opportunity to reconsider what you have presented to Parliament as a government proposal. This draft government has had a number of critical objections. I am not speaking at all of the social-democratic opposition, but of the ideas of the experts and, indeed, that has already been mentioned today, of the Court of Auditors itself. They were all wiped out of the table. For example, the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office has stated that it has constitutional concerns in this proposal for a law. There were serious concerns on the part of various federal states about this reform, with the call for the consultation mechanism in the room due to the almost doubling of the rail charges. That is to say, in the clear text – and this is also said very critically and very clearly by the Urban Federation – that if this concept is implemented in this way, it simply leads to pressures and deterioration of quality for citizens. [[Abg. Großruck: The City Federation is not an unwarranted witness!]] Despite all this criticism, the Federal Government in the Council of Ministers yesterday simply adopted this decision. There are a number of other critical remarks which I did not want to list in the short time. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This motion for a resolution is very likely to have its reason, because I have heard in many discussions with all the board directors of the railways that they have been able to contribute very little to the proposal that is now on the table. There is no unanimous management decision on a future concept to date. The Supervisory Board of the railways, i.e. the organs of a stock company, have not been occupied with the whole thing at all. So when I assume that I have information from the board of directors, we are dealing here with a purely government dictatorship towards a company that has to compete with other companies in the private sector. Finally, allow me to comment on the situation in which the Republic of Austria is already present. The ÖBB Board of Directors writes in a letter to the staff: ‘You are informed that, in addition to other consequences of non-fulfilment of the contractual obligation to work, the breach of service by taking part in the strike may be prevented by disciplinary measures, which may reach the date of dismissal. Furthermore, there is the possibility of the company’s claims for damages against strict employees.” I do not think this is a very productive process in this situation in which de-escaling should be ensured. I would ask all those responsible to also influence management in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10761	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10782	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Eder, I am a little surprised that you are currently offering the past comparison here. The situation was different, today we have liberalisation, earlier the Bundesbahn was a monopoly operation in these areas. There are a few examples where the Bundesbahn can no longer offer its services to large companies – “just in time” is not just a term – because it is unable to deliver goods on time. This too is a problem, and that is why we must make a reform in these areas, for example in the organization. We all know the problems that exist, including the Social Democrats and the Greens. It is questionable whether it is opportune to call on the Constitutional Court and to say that this or that makes the government wrong. I have not heard a word from you today about the fact that the Constitutional Court has clearly and clearly stated the shortcomings and privileges in the Federal Railways. I'm not talking about the railer who deserves 1 100 or 1 200 € – you have to say that here! – he has our support, he has our loyalty, but I am talking about the water head, which the Social Democrats have built for years in the Federal Railways, who has been reforming! The railway belongs to reformed due to its immutability. Do you think that this government is investing billions and billions in the infrastructure, as you said here, to break the line? - No! We want to have a competitive company that shines internationally, which provides safety for workers and is on the road on time in Austria. It should not be as it happened now, that the strike has been proclaimed. We have heard today how many commuters in Tyrol – it was 80 000 – it was not possible to get out of the valleys to work. But you're excited! We also talked about a growth package. What you're doing is a small-scale prevention package. That's what we're gonna do. We will reform this path to a positive one. We will not see how the work you did at the time will continue and the track in the final effect will reduce itself, because it is not able to take over appropriate tasks. We will also see that the workers and the employees who work on the track who are not among the top earners can continue to do their job and be proud of this company. Minister Gorbach has proved not only in the last few days, but since he is infrastructural ministers that he takes this task seriously that he appreciates the ÖBB. He's been talking a lot, not just you. He cannot be assumed to be a minister to remove the ÖBB. Let me give you an example: Yesterday we passed the Chancellor's Office, there was an apprenticeship strike with trills. The youngest who was there was just six years old, he will certainly not have been an apprentice. That's where they've been struggling with those peppers. [[The speaker holds a pepper in the height.]] What did the union say there? – First, this government locks out hospitals and then destroys the ÖBB, was told there. [[Abg. Eder: That's ridiculous what you're talking about!]] It's a joke that the union is giving up for such a thing! That people sitting in here are giving up for such a thing, for such sayings, is not all right and means uncertainty. [[Abg. Eder: You have a psychosis!]] The ÖBB reform will take place with or without your consent, have a positive effect on the track and will be a progress. I would like to say to Mr Melitta Trunk, who, out here, has given a foaming statement: For decades, the Social Democrats have had a mismanagement in Carinthia. A positive trend change was brought about by the head of state Jörg Haider. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Where?]] A head of state Jörg Haider will hopefully manage this country for a long time, because if it goes back to the Social Democrats, then I can only say: Poor Carinthia! If you come back to this government bank, I can only say: Poor Austria! We'll know this to prevent. We will continue to work constructively for this Republic. We're going to show what makes this government positive, and that's a lot. They will continue to sit on the opposition bank, perhaps foaming, but still, sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10852	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10870	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Because, as always, my colleague's head here went into the economic policy of the previous governments, looking back from 2000, just briefly to recall a few names that read: Wolfgang Schüssel – Minister of Economic Affairs, Hannes Ditz – Minister of Economic Affairs, Hannes Farnleitner – Minister of Economic Affairs, is still entrusted with a role of this government. So if everything was so bad, I'd turn to my own Minister for Economic Affairs. In the State Secretariat for Finance, for example, a Hannes Ditz or also a Günter Stumvoll, who is always sitting here, appears. Please, then contact your own people! We are now discussing the Federal Government's third economic package, which logically means that two predecessors were there, who obviously did not make the desired success, otherwise we would not need a third, although if one looked at what is now shamed in the subjects, the term "package" is somewhat misleading. It'd best be a package that was delivered here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Do we want to increase rent again? We can talk about that again, if you want. [[Abg. Neudeck: Who has already increased rents except the SPÖ?]] The misleading hint, however, also passes through the ÖVP paper, for example. This can be read by the FPÖ if it is able to do so with the Action Plan, which is on the first side: Austria is committed to the EU's objective under the Lisbon Strategy. - Fine, we all agree. If you continue reading, about the remaining ten pages, you find nothing about this Lisbon strategy and the implementation, or anyone who wrote it, it has been somewhat misunderstood. The key points of the Lisbon Strategy are the increase in social cohesion, active labour market policies and the prevention of poverty by social security systems. – You don't read anything about that! These are the key points because this is an essential departure from the EU's current course. If one reads on in the VP/FP paper, if there is any uniformity at all, then one actually finds a continuation of neoliberal politics, but not even that is consistently implemented, for if I remember the Monetarist Friedman, one of the pillar saints of Monetarism, then I realize that he has always said: I always want to reduce taxes at any time and in any situation! - Good. Where? If you look at it, you will see: around €200 million of additional burden in the area of social security contributions, around €200 million of additional taxes in the field of energy taxes and thus more than compensated for wage tax reduction. That is, additional taxes for workers and pensioners and no tax reduction. So that nothing is wrong with the Lisbon strategy again, again the subject is missing. One of the most important sectors of activity is then forgotten at all and not mentioned, namely tourism, the leisure industry, at best there are some dirty statements about SMEs. But there is again reference to the financing power of the countries, because there is a need for the country contribution for the funding projects, i.e. a package or a package at the expense of third parties. If, moreover, the debate points out that, so to speak, the opposition is now standing and the economy is sick, there are some sort of deficits that are not present, then I must say: You only need to look at the cover of your own application, which is now in the field. It says, for example, that Austria had a need to re-establish the R&D investments, while Mr Scheibner meant here that in the case of research and development we had no problem at all, because we were world leaders, there we were leaders. Where is the deficit then? – I hope it gives him a lexicon with the letter K at Christmas, so that he can look under “political consistency”. Next point: Alternatives. – What does the government write about the alternatives if this package is not made now? – It says literally: Maintain the current situation with the deficits presented. Who is now claiming that there are economic deficits? – The government itself! The opposition must not say it. I believe that you really have some packages, such as in the area of security policy, which we can still talk about, or in the area of rail, where reforms are certainly possible and quite useful, but we are there – and that has already been said – in the way that is to be taken. You also have some packages in the area of infrastructure and, as you yourself pointed out, in the area of R&D. That means you don't have to present a package that basically contains only placebos.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10915	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10933	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the global growth weakness since 2001, of which the Austrian economy has not, of course, been spared, this Austrian government has taken consistent and exemplary economic action since 2001. These measures were set against the background of the three pillars of Austrian financial and economic policy, namely a balanced budget beyond the economic cycle, a reduction in the tax rate by around 40 percent by 2010 while maintaining fiscal stability and a sustainable growth policy. Ladies and gentlemen! The main economic activities have been summarised in the I economic package as well as in the II economic package from December 2001 to December 2002. This has also affected gross domestic product, which, according to Wifo study, has increased by 0.75% on the basis of these measures. Now we need to bind and adopt the III economic package. The priorities of this economic package are: more money for research, the research and development offensive will continue, with the aim of reaching 2.5 percent of the research rate by 2006 and 3 percent by 2010, extending investment benefits, promoting small and medium-sized enterprises and further measures to flexify the labour market. Additional boost for the small tax reform will be provided, which will also enter into force at 1.1.2004. In contrast to the red and green alliance in Berlin, this black and blue government, with its economic packages and accompanying measures presented, has set out a further initiative to support growth in Austria through economic measures and structural measures. ==References== January 2004 will be a good day for the Austrian economy, it will be a good day for Austrian workers. At the beginning of the year there are, in addition to the economic package, the first discharges and the so-called small tax reform. These are tax exemptions for income up to €14 500 per year and beyond, up to €21 800 tax reliefs, the beneficiary tax- the rate for profits not recovered in order to increase the capitalisation of holdings, and in order to eliminate the loss of the 13th Sales tax dates. In concrete figures, very honoured Ladies and gentlemen, the following is said: This relief is 580 € for the self-employed, up to 475 € for non-employed and up to 450 € for pensioners. In particular, this relief will benefit 1.65 million employees in Austria, 730 000 pensioners and 60 000 self-employed, i.e. around 2.5 million people. Some 200 000 taxable persons are tax-free on the basis of these measures at all. But there is also a need for reform on the labour market. The labour market special programme for unemployed 15 to 18-year-olds will be extended by another two years. At the same time, the funds for training measures for over 45 year olds are increased, as these measures are particularly good for small and medium-sized enterprises. There is also an improvement in apprenticeship training. We're going the way of modular training. 260 teaching professions, as they have so far existed, are to be grouped together on around 100 basic models. On the basis of solid training, specialization will take place from the second academic year. Other measures concern the need for flexibility in working hours, the rules on eligibility or improvements for the re-entry of women into working life. In addition, the Federal Government will put €10 million per year into the fast internet, especially in rural areas, as the expansion of this broadband internet technology is one of the key infrastructure requirements today. Austria should continue to be at the head of the Information Society and to push ahead there as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10988	The next item is the speech by Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11007	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! “The Mohr has done its guilt”; the Mohr can go. – If this Schiller formulated so in his piece “The Conspiracy of the Fiesco to Genoa” in 1738, I tend to... – Colleague Großruck! [[Abg. Großruck: “Fiasco” is the name of your Fiasco at the Bundesbahn!]] I would ask you to exercise a little restraint; listen to what is happening in the real world! – as a direct companion, I would have tried to call the story “The conspiracy of the Safilo to Padua”. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Wittauer]] Those who follow this in the newspaper, what happens, should really be a little more careful when it comes to the real problems of colleagues in businesses, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are just experiencing the practical and physical effects of an admittedly deplorable Austrian economic policy. All those who rejoice “less state” and “more private” can now quietly and secretly to make sure that we have no real opportunity at all to intervene when a company like Carrera/Optyl goes down after almost 50 years. [[Abg. Wattaul: Are you also a exempted works council?]] What businessmen should think of, domestics, as foreign, when a Mr. State Secretary Kukacka stands up and gives 12 000 ÖBBlers the Weisel when profit-making businesses, such as the Austrian tobacco, the Voest, Dorotheum and so on, are partly destroyed by this government also abroad. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Get into the economy – that's what you want!]] Who should still have a bad conscience in this country if this is so unhappinessed. [[Abg. Wattaul: Communism has not proved itself!]] The only one that the government had before, the so-called pleite holding, which we have had to owe a lot, was also abolished, with your approval, dear colleague of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You are responsible for the current debacle. The Oberösterreich credit protection association said yesterday – and he is right there – a healthy leg of the Upper Austrian economy was amputated. They're right, that's not a question at all. 473 people, 289 women, 184 men, 330 of them fishing harvests, are on the street, many married couples, 150 over 40 years, 93 over 50 years of age – an age unemployment in the light of pension cuts and higher retirement age. People will say thank you. The management of the Linz-Land district – but what is bothering you? –, a management company in Austria has broken down once again. Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1978, international alleged top managers have “conquered” us like the termites, no matter whether from Germany, Switzerland or from Italy. Each time, the company and its employees have re-assembled, on their own initiative, because the product voted because the employees voted because the training voted. Whenever there was an Austrian management, it went well. Now we are experiencing uncontrolled and unbridled capitalism, as some people in this House are very pleased to see. But one thing is clear: Inability is global, is international, and if you still mix it with neoliberal, the effects are disastrous. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But the suffering and misery of the workers is the same everywhere in the world. 473 people are now transferred to the AMS – an AMS, which the Minister of Finance regularly withdraws from important funds. Many of the women concerned are expected to be retrained on care professions, according to a variety of specialists. I do not think that some have any idea what it means to be trained on care professions, how difficult it is to suddenly have a person in front of them after 20 years of work on a machine and how “toll” is, above all, the reward in this area. Of course, this is a possibility, but it is presented as if our 473 people in the vicinity of Linz, in this large, prosperous economic region would get another suitable job, as Mr Bartenstein said on Sunday, lapidar and almost cynical. Ladies and gentlemen! 490 job openings are reported to the labour market service on a monthly basis, but currently a fixed stock of 2 200 unemployed is also noted. At present 370 jobs are free and we do not need to talk about the qualifications at all. Three-quarters of all open jobs for women in the district are in the service sector, of which 53 percent are part-time jobs. As we know, today these are not family-friendly and not well rewarded. Our employees earn between €200 and €400 gross per month on average. Whether you need this income, you don't need to cry. Of course, many people wonder how they will get to the brink with this little money now. If, in the future, women in particular need three or four part-time jobs in order to be able to compete with their livelihoods, then this is certainly not a highlight for the economic policies of this Federal Government and the high cheers of increasing employment are coming to an extremely poor light. I would like to say the following: Mr Bartenstein meant that it wasn't that bad. What do you say? You're a couple who lost the house last year through the flood and now, since both of us were busy, both have lost the job? What do you say? You that woman who lost her husband four weeks ago and now stands with the children and without a job? What do you say, above all, that couple who have saved for years – despite the income I mentioned at first – have built a house now, and now the wife loses the job? You have to sell the house, take a smaller apartment, continue saving and giving up. – Thank you, that can’t be the Austria we want! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, it is high time to play less golf and perhaps read occasionally the renowned German newspaper “Die Zeit”, in particular the article of the 30th century. October: “The Beautiful and the Beast”. It is not enough to fly through Austria in the private jet of its patrons with fleeting sayings, slaughter and mint in the racing car or in the motor boat, but we now have to accept the problems of the people. And this should take place in a growth and location package of the Federal Government, as well as the legal provisions that such a robbery, as is the case with us now, will no longer happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11116	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11134	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it's amazing that Works Councillor Kristi expresses his wonder about the company Optyl and is surprised what happened there. He as a works council obviously did not take care of this operation at the right time and too little. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Binder: So, what are you doing?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Otherwise – and I want to express that – I do not understand this surprise. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The economic packages I and II have shown their positive impact. We were thus able to achieve economic growth in Europe, indeed worldwide, despite difficult and very tense economic conditions. I welcome the fact that this growth and site package will put in place measures which, at the beginning of a slight economic upturn, will have a greater impact on the economy. I expressly welcome the establishment of a National Foundation to which, as we have heard, the National Bank will contribute 1.5 billion and the ERP Fund 1.8 billion. If Mr Hoscher is trying to present a contradiction to my clubman's Scheibner, who has said that we are going to go to the top of Europe with the measures of this Federal Government, which is the result of the research and development ratio, then I must say that this is not a contradiction, because we have to find that there is also a need for re-examination, and this federal government is meeting this urgent need for re-examination accordingly. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The research location and the continuation of this location are, as I believe, a very essential component for a future-oriented and future-proof economic location. Of course, restructuring of the entire research and development area is necessary. It is essential and important for easier and more transparent access, so that innovative small and medium-sized enterprises can also benefit from it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think it is worth mentioning - I expressly welcome this - that the Austrian broadband initiative is being taken as an important infrastructure measure, which will benefit rural areas in particular. A temporary measure was found in the II economic package, namely the increase in the investment premium that would expire at the end of this year. I am pleased that the extension of this measure by 2004 is part of this package, which the Federal Government is now committed to. Important and forward-looking infrastructure measures, such as an infrastructure offensive for rail and road transport modes, are part of this package. Dear ladies and gentlemen! When one speaks of the rails, one again and again, as I mean, is the necessary reform of the Austrian Federal Railways. I am no longer going to address this in detail, which has already been done by many previous speakers both on the part of the opposition and on the part of the government parties. However, I note that ensuring the future of this important Austrian company, the Austrian Federal Railways, is only possible by means of a reform. And here you should think about it and take a more constructive path than that of the party-political abuse of workers on the basis of trade union measures such as strikes. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! This growth and location package is not to be seen in isolation, but it is to be seen in conjunction with those reliefs, with those fiscal measures that have already been decided, namely the tax reform step 1, with which income of up to €14 500 is tax-free. This brings an advantage for low and medium incomes. For the companies, the tax rate for profits not collected will be halved by a relief of € 100 000. However, if we make a comparison with our neighbours, the Federal Republic of Germany, it is only possible if the budgetary framework allows the budget. I am glad that this Federal Government has done the homework so that we can take these economic measures, take these impulses and not risk exceeding the 3 percent limit of re-indebtedness. I am glad that we have this margin and that these measures are being put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11196	Mr Neudeck has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11214	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! It can be said that a good year 2004 begins with an economic and growth package. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For all those who have not yet taken note of it, it is said that more money for research, the extension of investment benefits, the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and measures for the flexibility of the labour market. ==References== January 2004 will be the first discharge by the first part of the tax reform. And that, mine. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, it is those people who are supposed to represent you. Negotiations on a tax exemption for income below €14 500 did not lead the self-proclaimed so-called Social Party SPÖ, which was entirely the liberals. Even if the objective of implementing the small tax reform and reducing small income recipients was not easily reachable, we have enforced ourselves. We do not write pensioners' letters, but relieve pensioners of up to 450 € per year. We relieve self-employed with up to €580 per year, and we relieve the non-self-employed with up to €475 per year. What does the opposition do during this time? – The opposition supports and supports strikes to the detriment of all workers and to the financial damage to all taxpayers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The government exempts 200 000 taxpayers and relieves around 2.5 million citizens. The major tax reform in 2005 will also keep Austria competitive after EU enlargement. Our country will be able to expand its top economic position in the EU. These are our tasks and our goals. Not particularly encouraging and stimulating to the economic situation, stability and reputation abroad are the measures of the SPÖ preparatory organisations, the trade unions at ÖBB. Again wheels stand still because the ÖBB and also the mailboxes strike. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I'll tell you one thing: There has not been a healthy spread of a company yet. This strike by you leads in the final effect where your red “consumer” ends. It is not understandable for normal citizens what is being covered, namely for privileges which any non-ÖBBler can only dream of. Who is responsible for the dilemma at the ÖBB? – Were they not you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? Wasn't that your red transport minister? For years nothing was decided, and when one could no longer decide, the workforce was bought out necessary changes – at the expense of the customers. The customers were not heard at the time and will not be heard at your strike calls today. This is the fight against trade unions for a low retirement age, special service contracts and privileged working conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖBB staff do not conform to the trade unions. There is a clear dissatisfaction with these strikes, but there is a great deal of understanding of the government's reform plans. However, there is trade union pressure, which is exerted inexorably. I think this is going to start your action backwards. The voters will probably not cry any tears to the ÖBB service contracts. The Black and Blue Government will break out of this system and be committed to passengers, businesses and communities, and of course also to all the hard-working ÖBB staff who are currently innocent of handcushion. [[Abg. Silhavy:... not to be diligent! That's a terrible thing!]] Just as the ÖBB reform is a must for Austria and a significant improvement, the growth and economics package of our Federal Government also improves. Our policy is not based on socialist feasts, but on the needs of the people of our homeland.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11274	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Eder, fellow Members, on the renegotiation of the ÖBBB reform involving management and employee representation. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. [[Abg. Silhavy: There you can see what you can think of your dialogue!]] – This is the minority and thus rejected. 3rd. Point report of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (236, B.C.E._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Medical Equipment Act (289 d.b.) 4. Point report of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (201 D.B._Other Organiser Agreement on the Enforcement of Patient Rights (Patent Charter) (290 d.a.) 5. Point Health Committee report on the Government template (132d, B.C._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the World Health Organization on the Institutions and Services and the legal status granted to the Organisation on the occasion of the holding of the fifty-third meeting of the Regional Committee for Europe from 8 to 11 October. September 2003 in Vienna (291d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11322	We now come to points 3 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Rasinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11346	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. High house! Today we decide on Vorarlberg's accession to the patient charter. By the way, this is the seventh one that we can decide on in this House, unfortunately, two more are missing. I hope that my home country of Vienna will also make it convenient to join this patient charter. That this is not just a speech in the empty space, I would like to show you by means of an example that a patient told me last week who was on vacation on Mallorca. He was witness to an accident in which a 49-year-old German surgeon was unhappy when walking, fell on his head, and attracted a heavy skull-brain-brain-trauma. The surrounding people had to wait and watch – they couldn't do anything – for there was neither a truck nor an emergency helicopter. Subsequent But people were told that there were already helicopters on Mallorca, but only for flying golfers from one place to another. We in Austria have a total of 20 helicopter stations, and I would say that we are world leaders in this regard. I think this is health care policy. For this we need to thank the predecessors of Minister of Health Maria Rauch-Kallat, because if we did not, we could not ensure the supply. Today a report has been published stating that in Austria, unfortunately, or tragically, 180 to 220 children per year suffer from child cancer. At my time, when I started studying, it was absolutely fatal. Today, 75 percent of children can be saved. You're working on saving 80 percent or even 85 percent. One not only works on the survival rate, but also looks at what it means for the children to have practically a heroic struggle for months. What does it mean for parents, what does it mean for family members? – All this is the content of a declaration of will of this patient charter. In my opinion, the crucial point in the patient charter is Article 4, which states: Everyone has to be treated properly and appropriately, regardless of age, income and the last state of science. We must be clear that this also has a massive impact on the cost and development of the whole system. Today, the “New England Journal of Medicine”, the most famous medical journal, has published an article on a new treatment method with letrozol femara for women who have survived breast cancer positively. This reduces the mortality of these women once again by 30 percent – and that means, of course, more treatment, more costs, but I think it's positive costs. We must remember facts in health policy at all: 20 percent of people need 80 percent of the benefits, and that in turn is usually older people, and there are mainly women. It is of no use to Austrian patients if people who can afford to go to the Mayo Clinic, the treatment must take place for the people here. Diseases are obviously not planable – this is not an empty speech and absolutely not self-evident, this shows England with its 1.3 million patients on the waiting list for an operation that is partially sent to Germany and France. In England, Tony Blair had to answer for the fact that the survival rate in cancer treatment in England was so bad last week. Austria took first place in this study. It has been said that the whole money currently being brought to health care in England is pumped, because there are no 100 hospitals, 15,000 doctors, 25,000 sisters and medical professionals. It takes about ten years to fix the system. A few weeks ago, we were able to rejoice that Cardinal King, at the age of 98, survived a boneneck so well – I would like to say: has survived. I can tell you – many of you live God in the grace of being healthy, you have never been seriously ill thanks to God: It is always a pleasure for me to ensure the same care for poorer people in Meidling as for Cardinal King. I can say that with good conscience. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – This is a commitment for all of us. I don't think we should go the Dutch way either. The patient charter clearly states: “Become Before Life”, “Become Before Death”. – In Holland, 3 200 lives are terminated in advance under the title Mortality Assistance. Not a few old people tell me: Doctor, it's time to go! – No, it’s time to do a proper pain therapy, it’s time to support a good hospice movement. We do this in Austria with the hospice plan, with the hospice karenz, with the 425 beds, so that there is also a gentle death in addition to the gentle birth. This is the specifically applied patient charter. A few days ago, we opened the health dialogue and the health conference. 600 people, experts discussed with us. It was unique to see how people feel when discussing these problems. We will talk about gaps, problems, but we will also have to bring solutions. This debate is also about the Medical Products Act. This is also a question of legal certainty, of greater quality, of the implementation of EU directives. In this context, I propose an amendment tabled by Mr Rasinger, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Haidlmayr, Mr Greenewald, Mr Lackner, Mr Laxner, Mr President, to the report of the Health Committee on the Medical Products Act and ask the President for the distribution to Members for the scope of Article 53(4) of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to explain the main points of the request: The arrangements for the maintenance of medical products for the relevant high-risk groups should be made by health insurance providers not only if the medical devices are purchased directly by them, but also if only part-financing takes place by means of the grant or reimbursement of costs. Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion: It is, I believe, a responsibility for all of us that we are happy to take in. For us as a Christian-social party and for me as a doctor, it is in particular an obligation that we fulfill this patient charter with life. A high quality of care for all – regardless of age and income – should be a matter of course in Austria; something that is not the case internationally. I'm just telling you one thing: It can meet anyone at any time, every day. And then we will urgently need the patient charter with its effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11453	I announce that the request from Mr Rasinger, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Haidlmayr, Mr Grünewald, Mr Lackner, Mr Laxner, Mr Rasinger, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Haidlmayr, Mr Grienewald, Mr Laxner, Mr Laxner, Mr Laxner, Mr Laxner, Mr Laxner, Mr Laxner, Mr Laxter, has also been presented in writing and is sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, it is also printed in the Stenographic Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11521	The next item is the speech by Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11539	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that health policy is an essential area of policy and should also take it into account, I believe, undisputed. Health policy, ladies and gentlemen, is, of course, also an essential policy area of social democracy. We have seven national health reports, we have a strong group that is very active in health policy, because it is constantly aware of its responsibility in this area. Mrs. Federal Minister! We are also willing to continue to cooperate actively and constructively in the design of health policy if – I will come back to it later – various conditions that are essential to us are also met. I should like to focus very briefly on today's proposals, ladies and gentlemen, who will speak in my opinion, will continue to deal with these problems in detail. But I can tell you now that we will, of course, give these three proposals approval because they solve important issues. Mrs. Federal Minister! I had the honour of being at two events in the last few days, at the health conference and in the health dialogue. There has been a great deal of talk about health policy, but unfortunately – I have already told you – many areas have not yet been addressed comprehensively or raised very little satisfaction in my view. I should like to address these once again today because they will be extremely important in the further reform efforts. This is primarily about the financing of hospitals – you did not say much about it at both events. I think it is important to know how you can imagine the further design of such a large block of expenditure. The main association will also be an important problem, because the knowledge of the Constitutional Court, according to which the main association must be reorganised, will have to be treated as a matter of priority, since at present non-competent bodies or bodies which are not constitutionally established must deal with health policy. I think it should be here. You find an answer relatively quickly, you should at least now clearly confess to self-management, which I consider essential and also important. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] I have also heard relatively little about the word “parents in dignity” about how you deal with the care problem. I think that's an important area. If I let the headlines of last year's revision happen: The Federal Chancellor has informed us that he wants to recruit 30 000 qualified nurses for this field over the next eight years. – To this day, however, he has not told us how he wants to put these really nice words into practice. I have so far missed this, and I have not received an answer from you, Mrs Federal Minister. [[Abg. Steibl: The AMS is supposed to do something!]] - Please? [[Abg. Steibl: The AMS could do even more!]] – You know, AMS alone will be able to make this difficult. I think that policy has to give an answer, Mrs Steibl. We should think about it and not always push everything off to the AMS. That's just too little for me to answer. That may be rich in Styria, but Austria-wide, I would say, we need a little more. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Health policy, I have already said, is very important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] We know that we have a relatively good health system in Austria. It is also undisputed that reforms are necessary. This is beyond doubt and is also recognized by us. But – and this is important – before we act, we should set certain goals which should be politically undisputed. For me, this is primarily about the need not to weaken reforms, but to strengthen social cohesion in society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is for me that the same and fair access must come to basic and leading medicine, Mrs. Federal Minister. This is also essential for further discussions with you. And it is also a matter of efficient use of resources in health care, to mention just a few objectives – a substitute for many –; I do not want to say any more now. That would, as it were, be those goals that are important to us. And we will try to present you even more of the important areas in further discussions. Today, we have submitted 28 requests for a comprehensive approach to health care, and you will soon have the opportunity to demonstrate your consistency in Parliament, here in plenary and also in the Committee, if you really think it is serious. In any case, we will give you the hand, we are ready to address necessary reforms with you in the interests of people and health policy. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11619	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11637	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We have joined the process of health reform, there have already been two events. Many negotiations, a process, a health reform will be necessary if we want to pursue and pursue the two main objectives we have to pursue in health policy: first, ensuring high quality and second, the achievement of the principle: all people must have access to quality medicine, regardless of their material possibilities, regardless of their social status. In order to achieve this, a reform is necessary, and it is good to recall a number of fundamental points at the beginning of this reform debate. In hardly any other field, the lives of people have been as sustainable as in the field of medicine. Diseases, which have been absolutely fatal until recently, can be cured, accidents that once torn young people and children out of life, are today a bagatelle matter. The great opportunity that lies in it can only be used for the full benefit of people if some additional provisions are made. So I think that, especially in the legal area, with the constantly increasing demand and the constantly increasing, the high quality and the possibilities offered by medicine, control must also become stronger, because the principle “Uses’s nothing, does nothing!” no longer applies to these products: as wholesome, as effective as they are, they can be so harmful. In this context, it is very welcome that there has been a four-party request that the Medical Products Act, especially for these highly developed products, which, as much as they can use, is equally damaging If they are not properly maintained, they cannot be properly used, special obligations must be laid down to ensure that the general agreement of this House will be reached. The very precise control of these high-quality products is necessary, because the patient himself sees himself as a layman of course completely unable to judge here. He must be able to rely on the fact that what is offered is also acceptable, otherwise one would open a door and a door to a very evil business-maker, who is finding many believers in the field of health. Medicine is not only high science and high technology, medicine is much more – it has not been called “Heil art” in the past. Medicine does not work on an object, but on life, on man. The visa is one that reacts immediately. And so the sentence that man must be at the centre is not only a requirement of humanity and respect for human dignity, but also a reasonable principle when you think about the outcome and success of medicine. Of course, the frightened, intimidated, ignorant, disoriented, depressed patient has much lower chances of healing than a patient who is oriented to his situation, who is built up and repressed, is involved in his own healing. This is what you can observe again and again, and is also confirmed in an impressive way by the neurosciences, which prove how much the mind has and affects the physical phenomena and phenomena with all its physiological processes in the brain. In this respect, man really has to be at the centre if we want to have a success. And in this respect, the patient charter – and once you have to act on Vienna, that Vienna is also becoming such – has an enormously important value; we are closing it with Vorarlberg today. The patient charter should strengthen the rights of patients as such, their education, their possibilities. It will certainly and necessarily be expanded in a further step if all the federal states have a patient charter and a federal uniform version is to be established in a second passage. Human beings are at the centre of and careful handling of all high-quality products, these are the two points that we are doing here today. It is gratifying that all three requests from the Health Committee are consensus matter, because it is precisely on this point, I think, that every party policy should be avoided. Health policy is something that has to benefit people directly and where ideological disputes have to be addressed.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11695	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11714	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! The Medical Products Act is of course an illustration of the progress of science: extremely complicated. I would just like to explain that, apart from drugs, almost everything can be found on the market, thousands of products whose safety and quality are not easy to assess. That is why the EU has adopted directives that Austria partially understands with the current laws, and this naturally poses difficulties. It's being saved everywhere. The essential, when I talk about safety in medicine, is, I think, that the Progress is taken into account by being adequately financed as possible. As long as we do not get under control of the health system's financing system, or have no socially acceptable, good proposals on which we can all agree, we can use medical products, medicines and other crafts, as much as we want, they will not be available to everyone. – This is something we could at least agree on verbally. But then you should come to mind. Of course, I'm right about Rasinger with the example he cited. And it is gratifying – I come from this subject, so to speak – if today there are tumour-diseased, cancer - sick children who have been completely unthinkable in a few decades ago when diagnosiss that used to be a death sentence have been presented, only – you have not quite said it –: However, one should not try to give the impression that this is a merit of the Federal Government, for that is already a interaction of many forces. If the Federal Government is involved in further improving this, it is good. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] But now I come to an essential point: Research, treatment and care of the sick or people with handicaps is not only to do with money but also needs of the staff. However, this staff must also have a ministry to address, as it were, increasingly difficult questions. And I wonder if there is too much saving here in all sectors, starting with Lainz, at Geriatric Centres, to the top political layers, even in the science community, where in the personnel equipment there is no sign that there is a consistent interest in improving or at least keeping up with progress. With regard to quality assurance, which we have only discussed in committee, it is crucial that we have scientifically sound data. Without clear data, you can only make politics out of your stomach, and that is something that rarely works well. It is also necessary to have improved training adapted to the new needs of medicine and progress. And you have to give people who work in health professions opportunities to develop their careers, adapt to progress and acquire skills – that also costs money. If you look at what research and screening programs are running in the field of tumor medicine, and how controversial, for example, mammographies are in their worth, and how much that depends on quality, you have to say that we still have a lot to do. I now come to another point: the patient charter. And here it is interesting that the Federal Minister has invited people who, in the health conference, also left critical comments off the stack. As one speaker said, the patient charter is an emergency solution, a crunch on the way to a federal uniform guarantee of patient rights. Why just a crutch, a pitiful crutch? Because these patient rights are not indictable in the Charters of the Countries, they do not go beyond an appeal character, I cannot call upon them to produce other than moral pressure. And there are, of course, things inside where we'd hit our hands over the head if they weren't guaranteed. For example, there is – I made a few notes – a familiar environment for chronically ill people who lie in hospitals for months and weeks. Creating a familiar environment – I can still remember when eight-bed rooms in the Geriatric Centre in Lainz were defended with the words, because old people can talk much better and are not so alone. – Please, look at this: The strength of the voice is not enough to talk to someone over a bed edge! How visits become disabled, I do not want to carry on at all. It should also be taken into account the life rhythm of patients. – What does it actually look like? In order not to overcharge the day shift, the washings of the morning start partly by two, three in the morning. There are regulations of countries in which at least five minutes per patient should be spoken in nursing homes a day. Imagine: Five minutes of human contact by conversation a day finds entry into a Charter! You really touch your head. Further: The necessary supply of medicinal products must be ensured. – These are all things I mean, that's logical. And if children under the age of 10 are to be taken up, parents should also be able to be included, provided that – however – stands inside – that is possible. There is no such thing as Courage or you don't have the money – you don't want it, you can't or you're inclined to write it in front of the countries – already in advance, that's to be taken into account in structural measures and so on. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is the right to visit. – Imagine what “toll” is: A sick person, a sick person may receive visits! That's in a Charter inside – no, I would have meant it. This means that there is still a lot to be done here, and I do not want to criticise and nag around now, but I simply want to say that this dialogue has only begun and something to be resolved, namely liability issues. Patients can, of course, get hurt in an ever more complicated medicine and treatment technique. This damage rarely happens grossly negligently, but mostly out of slight negligence, slight indebtedness, and patients are always sitting in court at the shorter branch. There's a concern here that there's something going on. This is a medical liability, where all stakeholders, from health professionals, pharmaceutical companies to product manufacturers et cetera pp., are included and without complex civil process regulations patients are spoken of in law, according to a simple principle of cause. Mrs Bundesminister, I hope that we will continue the dialogue and make some progress here. In any case, we can agree to the law as it is now.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11799	Mrs. Rauch-Kallat spoke from the government bank. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11817	Mr President. High house! The Medical Equipment Act, which is under discussion here today, is primarily used for the implementation of two EU Directives. These guidelines concern medical devices, which have already been the basis of the Medical Products Act, and they also include medical devices containing stable blood derivatives in support function. The regulation on the maintenance and hygiene of medical products also ensures improved protection of patients. At the same time, the necessary framework conditions for the public provision of defibrillators are also created. You know, ladies and gentlemen, it was this house, which, three years ago – and I am very proud that I was not immeasurably involved in it at that time – first of all provided the possibility that defibrillators may also be used by health services. In the meantime, the technology has improved so far that lay people are also able to operate these devices and thus save lives. In this sense a warm thank you once again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, this law also ensures data protection data exchange via medical devices and their users, so that, if necessary, information about any misservices can be quickly provided to the patients or, if necessary, the corresponding recovery actions can be performed. What is important, ladies and gentlemen, and I would also like to thank for this, was the amendment on which all four political groups were able to agree. It was once again a reference by Mr Haidlmayr to the cost of maintaining medical products – in their case the electric wheelchairs she also referred to – that the acquisition of these costs, which have so far been taken over by social security funds, is guaranteed in the future, even if not the entire medical product or wheelchair has been purchased by social security, but only a cost contribution. This is very important for many people with disabilities, because these costs, of course, usually exceed the normal possibilities of a disabled person's income. So also a warm thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The agreement on ensuring patient rights – Mr Green Forest, you have now referred to it – is, of course, a first step and is a start. That is why I am glad that there is this first step. 1999, that is, before my time as Minister of Health, this text has been written, i.e. I have not yet been responsible for the content and I also wish that many things would be improved in the content. Nevertheless, I am glad that Vorarlberg is the seventh federal state, but sad that it is not yet nine federal states that have ratified this patient charter since 1999. We still lack the federal states of Salzburg and Vienna. I am glad to hear that Salzburg is on a good way to ratification, but unfortunately I do not hear any signals from Vienna. I would really ask colleagues from Vienna here in the house, including from the Socialist Group, to work towards the ratification of this Charter, so that it can finally come into force and then also to implement proposals for improvement in the sense that Mr Green Forest has put it forward. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, these patient charters are there to put people at the heart of people, people and their needs, their rights, and that must be our concern. I have said it again and again at the health conference and before in the reform dialogue: At the heart of our health reform and all the steps of reform, man has always to stand and what he needs in order to preserve his health and to restore his health. Mr Grünewald, it will not only need a patient charter, we must ensure that many of the things you have done in the course of the overall reform with a large quality assurance law, a quality assurance law covering all health areas, the intramural area as well as the extramural area, the care services and much more. It also deals with a health dialogue on quality assurance, and I think we will hopefully find good results in the next five to six months. The third proposal we are discussing today deals with an agreement between Austria and the World Health Organization on the occasion of the 53. The meeting of the Regional Committee, which took place in September. Of course, all decisions have been taken in good time in the Council of Ministers, including between Austria and WHO. The Committee's treatment here in plenary made it possible only today. That is why I am also happy to be able to tell you that we have not only held an excellent conference with the focus on mental health and health of children and young people, but among the more than 500 participants we have also experienced great satisfaction both with the contents of the conference and with the organisation of the conference – an enthusiasm for Austria will ultimately not harm the tourism location in the future – although we have succeeded in a very economical administration – I have just said in March, when I took up the office, that expenditure is to be researched – with the costs for this conference to remain below half of the planned amount. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Italy, which had to organise the previous regional conference, spent €1.7 million on this, and we had estimated € 1.350 million. The forecast was then reduced to €980 000, and in July it was €757 000. In the end, we stayed below €700, so the amount went down by just over half and still managed to hold an excellent conference. Ladies and gentlemen! More important, however, were the contents of this conference, namely child and youth health and mental health, and these are also priorities of our work in the framework of health reform. We discussed them yesterday at the health conference, where I was grateful to be able to present the large package of medicinal products, which brings substantial improvements to the pharmaceutical sector, and for which I would like to thank all those who have been sitting at the negotiating table with me for five months. This package of medicinal products does not only include cost reduction measures, but it is important that it is in principle a structural package: It actually changes the structures in the pharmaceutical sector, both as regards the access of patients to medicinal products and the bureaucracy in the inclusion of medicinal products in the list of medicinal products for the pharmaceutical industry. With this structural reform, we have managed to drop the chief physician's obligation for patients who have been felt to be harassment by many insured persons or by all insured persons and who have been involved from the 2nd century onwards. It will no longer be given in the quarter of 2004. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] At the same time, we will make increased use of generics more attractive by reducing the prescription fee for generics by about a third. A cost saving for insured persons is very important, especially for income recipients in the lower third and for families with multiple families, with several co-insurers. We will ensure that prices for new medicinal products, for newly authorised medicinal products, fall to EU average for pre-primary medicinal products – they have so far been overly high. We will ensure a transparent and temporary procedure for the industry to be included in the medicine list, and ultimately we will also ensure a regulated and rapid supply of patients with innovations on the medicinal product market and, with a reduction in the price after the patent procedure, make the medicines cheaper. I am very glad that, in addition to the structural measures, it has succeeded in achieving actual price reduction measures of around € 150 million in 2004 and even slightly higher in the following years. It once again shows that it is possible to use money sparingly to deal with money and yet to provide better access to the necessary funds for the insured. Mr. Lackner, you gave me a few words you missed at the health conference. I'm allowed to take up the health care fund you've been cutting: You may be right. I didn't say much in detail. I have, however, very much observed in the framework of the health reform, the reform dialogue, but also at the health conference, what the whole thing will look like that there will not be any punctual measures. And just as I have seen in the pharmaceutical package that it is a holistic reform, so that there are not individual points that we have not even sold in between, although we have had results, I would of course also like to see the funding of hospitals as a whole package. We are already working on it, are already in the analysis of the causes – we do not want to fight symptoms, we want to fight causes – and if we have a holistic package, we will present it. Of course, I invite everyone to participate, both in the analysis and in the reform. As far as the main association is concerned, there has been a clear commitment to self-management both by the Federal Chancellor and by me several times. One point you mentioned was that aging was in dignity. I think I am really unwarranted, because as one of those who worked 15 years ago in the Hospice movement in the development of the hospice idea in Austria, at the first implementation, and as one who, during the last two nights, was able to experience the sacrificing activity of the nursing staff on the bed of a dying family from me, I know what is being done there. And it is our concern to implement the four-party proposal of this House to the Hospice Movement in the course of this overall reform. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] As far as caregivers are concerned, of course, we need a lot of things to do with this question. ==References== We have already invited an invitation to a large care dialogue on October, to which we invited all the care organisations active in Austria; we presented this at the health conference yesterday. And there are already labour market service courses to upgrade nurses to graduate sisters. These are two attempts that are running very successfully, and we hope that we can further develop it. But in general, we need a system that is permeable, built into modules, which includes both the first education route and the second education route, and which, above all, opens the way for nurses to switch to other areas. We will also discuss a child health plan and a rehab centre for children. Finally, I would like to thank you very much for the cooperation so far and for the unanimous adoption of these three proposals, and I would like to ask that this path be taken together in the next eight months until the major health reform next summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11972	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 3 to 5 of the agenda, so that the required debate of a urgent question can take place. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Josef Cap, colleagues at the Federal Minister for the Interior on the failure of the Minister of the Interior to combat crime and break down the Austrian security system (1039/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11999	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 1039/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12194	I give the floor to Mr Dr Josef Capal's first question on the grounds of the question. 20 minutes speaking time. – Mr colleague, the floor is yours.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12216	Mr President. High house! We have been confronted for a long time with the fact that there is a growing security debate with us in Austria. Of course, this security debate has its reasons, and of course these reasons can be read on the basis of real figures. Especially the juggling and gazing of the Minister of the Interior in recent weeks with these facts, figures and figures shows that he has a bad conscience, shows that he really knows the real data situation and that he is trying to hide this data and facts in the public debate. In other words: The Minister wants to create his reality himself and define himself. Our task is to achieve this in the interests of the citizens, whose security is increasingly being reduced, who are increasingly afraid to shed light and exert pressure, so that the security situation in Austria is finally changing. – That is why today’s urgent ones, which means that the Minister of the Interior has to give answers to questions under the obligation of truth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this discussion, more is swinging. It's not just about the quality of life in Austria, what we were proud of, because we were really able to develop a good feeling of life for years and decades: walk safely in the evening, where and when you want to, maybe leave the car unclosed. [[Abg. Grossruck: You can't do that!]] Today, for example, you can't even leave the cars locked, as we know. Even here in front of our door have already broken up cars, if you haven't noticed that yet. Look You'll be quick to see if that wasn't the case again! [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you have an alibi for the time when it was broken in?]] In other words, in the field of security, there is a development that affects the quality of life that affects the economic location of Austria, which affects the willingness to invest and, most importantly, tourism, a non-essential economic factor. The more familiar this becomes, the worse the security situation in Austria. You can't turn on that either by means of an inclined charger. In the last “Openly Said” mission, the Minister of the Interior was invited to act in the form of Mr Horngacher, the Minister of Justice, as if he were an expert whose task it was to do constantly as if he had provided the basis for the so-called police reform with expert investigations, and last but not least, the famous woman shoe, who had been broken in five times. On the question of when, however, she said: In the 1970s! The concept of such a discussion must be presented in the light of the background – and this is the result of the 2002 security report – that we had to register almost 600,000 crimes and that this means an increase compared to the previous year by 13.6 percent. Since the insecurity minister's start, crime in Austria has increased by almost 20 percent and the education rate has fallen by 20 percent. - That's a scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The situation has developed particularly dramatically where the security structure has been destroyed, namely in Vienna. In Vienna, in the area of criminal acts – we are now always talking about criminal acts against foreign property – the number of 72,486 cases increased in 1999 to 139,052 cases in 2002. The education rate has halved in Vienna from 34.9 in 1999 to 17.14 percent. The comparison figures at federal level: 28 to 29 percent. That's a smooth not enough for you, Minister of the Interior! You have not provided more security, you have provided less security! [[Abg. Wattaul: Are you easily a Weaner?]] – You should not blow up like this because your party has for years tried to make politics in our country with security policy. Now you should have your 11 percent one broadcast break! – So far to you so you can know yourself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In 2003 the crime is expected to rise by 13 percent. This concerns theft, burglary theft, street robbery. Now I'm telling you something: And all this in combination with your caputt savings strategy that you have been developing for a long time, Minister of the Interior! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] This also has an impact on officials in this field: more pressure, more stress! This has an impact on officials in their daily work. Do you know what the message of this policy is from this government and the Minister of the Interior? – If the thieves sit together abroad and plan where they start their next Eurotour, Austria will be in the forefront. In view of the reconnaissance rate, given what has been reduced here in places, what has been saved here in the security device, this is actually an ideal place to organize our thefts, they will say. [[Abg. Raedler: That's ridiculous!]] That's the message! – But so, I tell you, Austria will not be safer if this message is sent even further. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Something else's coming in. The word “reform” in this government in general, but in the case of Minister of the Interior, at the Minister of the Insecurity, Strasser in particular, has almost the attire of a dangerous threat. Not for nothing, by the way, from research results in the population, we know that the word “reform” has long been no longer positive. [[Call the ÖVP:SPÖ!]] It has been negatively occupied by the Black and Blue Government. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Strasser.]] The way in which you have dealt with highly qualified top-level people in your device, how you have formally shot them out, as you have thus refrained from valuable know-how – as has just been noted, it was, to a large extent, simple and simply illegal, as you have led the restitutions into the way – from this you must also recognize a rather disturbed relationship with the rule of law, not only to the constitution, as individual sayings of the Constitutional Court have already proved. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Unheard of!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: It's unheard of!]] That seems to be indifferent to you. You see somewhere the chance to be able to occupy a free space with a party politically close to you, ÖVP partygoers, and quickly, that is already being led in the way – whether it's legal or not! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: From Lower Austria!]] On the other hand, one must protest in the interest of the people who are interested in the fact that there is more security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] You just saved up. The Minister of Finance has given you some mark, you have apparently developed it yourself, and this has led to the fact that, according to us, there is information available on the systemized planning sites. July 1999 – we write this in the urgent so that you can also comment on it – until 1. ==References====External links== By mid-2004, there will be another 700 jobs less. During the overtime you have also exerted pressure. There, too, was drastically reduced. What kind of official image is behind this, Mr. Minister? – In your opinion, the Austrian security officials are lazy! Unwarranted overtimes make them, underworked they are, there you can reduce other planning sites. – This is the policy you are pursuing, and this is a scandal in relation to the zealous officials who are committed to the security of Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] By the way, this must have already been discussed in the public service, if you think only of the personnel representation elections in Salzburg, where the ÖVP had to take on massive losses, because you just noticed the importance of public service in the eyes of this government, but also in particular in the eyes of this insecurity minister. Do you know what's particularly outrageous? [[Call the ÖVP:Cap! Cap!]] If you are trying here to bring the population around on the nose, to put up with the numbers as much as a gaukler, and to say the famous aspect that a advertising company obviously introduced to the Minister of the Interior: [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is very bad!]] There are suddenly 550 in the operational service, which were previously lazy in the administration. – Staff representatives argue that this is the case. So who's right? I know that according to your department, a staff representative in principle never has the right and the Minister of the Interior always has the right to do so. This is your attitude, but you should also have more democratic access. Then you want to inform the population – in the “press hour”, but you also have it written in the newspapers: There is already 930 at the customs guard, very greedy to be finally employed in the security service. - Wrong! As long as we have the Schengen Agreement, these 930 will not be applicable, they will also have to be trained. And of course, those 40 you seem to want to use in Vienna have to be trained. – Is it also Wurst, you have the favorite helpers, the famous 740 new shots that are missing the star, can wave around with the weapon and are already in use. – Thank you very much, even more uncertainty! Of course, there must be two years of training. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or: Police school. You say 540 police students can actually use us right away. - Wrong! A part will only be in 2004, the other part will be so far in 2005. Tell the citizens! And you don't even say that hundreds of people go into retirement, of course, and because of the completely absurd, unjust, unsocial – compared to the others who can't – action of this federal government with early retirements you lose hundreds again in the security device. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Unheard of! Embarrassing!]] – Again more uncertainty, you will put together individual posts again, again in the night individual posts will not be occupied! You'll call, and the police won't come to the aid. Depressed officials will be there if they are still sitting there at all. They're destroying the Austrian security device! That's an insanity, and you finally have to present it here in all its clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You don't trust yourself on the street anymore!]] You have at last the opportunity to comment on the questions of truth today. You can also express yourself a little mathematically-conceptually and show relationships: What is a reconnaissance rate or rate, which, of course, is in relation to the total, and what are the absolutely enlightened cases? That was your upper trick, which you have spread to the public: Of course, if there are more and more offences, then it can already be that the absolute number of cases that have been clarified is rising a little, but it is about the quota for us to have the relationship with the offences that have taken place. Today, you can't wander around it. After your reply, Members will speak from our side, and if not at last the figures are clearly stated today, if you do not finally give in to pure wine, then proper criticism will be given by the following speakers. There is no rum pressure today, the hour of truth has come! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to announce the police reform – that is the best – with an eye-catching. The Minister is trying to develop an innocent eyebeat, but of course he has not been able to do so for a long time. The liberal paint is gone! Police reform – what do the commentators in the newspapers say about it? You can talk about the various reforms – we have made proposals – about the 25 security regions, about aggregations, you can think about efficiency, it is not, our proposals are already on the table, but I take the anything other than left-wing radical newspaper, namely the “Small Newspaper”, in the hand, then I read in a editorial by Stefan Winkler, page 8 – you should browse up to page 8, not always stop after the first two pages –: “Executive New:” – colon is here. – “If the word was not.” – This has already started very well, Minister. Stefan Winkler writes this police reform concerning: “Will he” – the Minister of the Interior – “abuse the fusion as a vehicle to weaken the executive? The experience so far makes annoyance.” – Yes, me too! – “Strasser does indeed deal with innocence mine” – as always, perhaps right now – “his ministry is the only couleur of red-and-white red. But in view of the hard facts, this is no more than a tasteful cynicism. The decommissioning of deserved generals such as Franz Schnabl and Oskar Strohmeyer showed that the liberal image that Strasser mediated at the beginning of his term of office was Schminke. The paint soon showed up cracks, including a hard-hited power politician who could no longer deny the church tower Stalinism of his political homeland, the Lower Austrian ÖVP.” [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can only praise that. That was a clear analysis, which of course can be given full approval. Because what is it about? This can be called reform, but it can be assumed, of course, that in every structural change we see before us, of course, new positions and posts must also be written out at the various levels. That's where he gets very shiny eyes, the Minister of the Interior, in the thought of it. He'll be very comfortable and warm. – A knowing smile from the FPÖ series; they know what I am talking about. You have to see for yourself that they have no people available for the occupations, but the ÖVP in the dozens again and again. As said, a desk becomes free, one of the last remaining post-commanders is free – and already there the ÖAAB and the ÖVP and all closed in, sometimes even three people for two armchairs, which perhaps leads to an extension of the positions he is talking about. – Only then and not when safety requires it! Only when the project group “Team04”, which is apparently also a project group for post-posting, concludes: If we put the two structures together, we would have three people and only two posts. This creates uncertainty, so you have to extend it by a post! This is perhaps the reason why the Minister of the Interior is given the first liberal expression and says: Well, well, then maybe we'll install a third position there. That's about it, but security policy stays on track, it doesn't interest anyone. And this is the predicament: that tax money is finally thrown around here, is supposedly spoken of as savings – where you really want to save, however, will not be saved – but that you will lose out where you feel that you can really implement your post-ordering strategy. - And that's a scandal! In Vienna, 1,000 officials are missing. 40 have now set you on the move, 1,000 are missing! They bear the responsibility, especially in the urban areas; it is not only about Vienna, but it is possible to note an increase in the frequency of crime in the various urban areas. To do this, you can only talk about a little bit of stuttering and talking about a police reform that, as it now looks, becomes a mass occupation care for ÖVP party members. That's it first and foremost. An ÖVP Party Police may be if you look at the structure that is finally planned for it. I would like to say something about this reform, which you want to go through here. It only remains to me – the little light flashes – to add a thought: They also want to organize this very centralistically; according to the Gendarmerie model, as I am told. So a concentration of power and information is unrivalled! In other words, it means: The watchman, as we rightly put it, will only obey one person, namely the Minister of the Interior, who will not be legally responsible for his activity. This will allow you to control the entire flow of information in all security, criminal and state police areas in the future. There, even Mr. Fouché will be the famous French police minister at the end of the 18th century. In the 19th century, if you don't know him – who obviously serves as a model for you here, in front of the face of loud envy. Such a concentration is huge. I can only tell you that there is fear, even as far as this concentration of surveillance skills is concerned with citizens in one hand. In summary, even in the awareness that critics are either decommissioned or cold, I must say that you are not at all interested in a reflective debate and that you are only using your reform to create power-political giants to occupy posts. In other words: The result of your policy brings less security, brings post-employment care to the ÖVP, is to the detriment of citizens, harms the economic location and tourism, and ultimately leads to your being distrusted. They're no longer portable as ministers!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12491	To answer the question, the Federal Minister for the Interior, Dr. Strasser, spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. – Mr Federal Minister, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12510	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank Parliament for having the opportunity to discuss security, because it is actually an award and a great progress if it is possible to bring together the best ideas for security here in the House. [[Abg. May. Worm: The truth to say!]] No matter where the idea comes from, the best idea should be to help ensure the security of our citizens. In this sense, I would like to thank you for this debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is also good for us to be able to talk about facts that some of what I have just heard from Mr. Klubobmann's cap's mouth is right to say that we can put some things in the right corner, Mr. Klubobmann! [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: To the right corner!]] At the outset, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you: What can the ORF do to prevent your arguments from taking place? What can Dr. Jelinek do up there or Mr. Stopacher for the “press hour”? [[the speaker points to the journalist's log]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: “Openly said”!]] He really can't do anything about your arguments not having the necessary resonance in the population. And also as far as ‘open said’ is concerned, these two gentlemen and all the others in the ORF can't really stand by the arguments you are making, I must say that very openly to you! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You should be ashamed!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You could have invited him! The ORF is responsible for the invitations!]] I don't understand why you're hacking around on our officials in the executive service if you want to meet the Minister of the Interior. Please speak to me, but let our officials work quietly, all across Austria, Mr Klubobmann. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr. Klubobmann! Extraordinary regret is that the responsible officers of the Vienna police, Mr. Police President, who was responsible for the police reform, and Mr. Criminal Director Horngacher, are responsible for the very, very successful work of our criminal police together with the security guard last year, such criticism by you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Jarolim]] [[Call the ÖVP: ‘Eurolim’!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Poor!]] By the way, both are not ÖVP party members. [[Call at the ÖVP:A pale G’s layer!]] Horngacher has come through me to these posts and not through any other circumstances. He's not a member of the People's Party, he's doing excellent work, and I need to protect Director Horngacher from SPÖ so he can do his job. It's a little too far! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let me say one last thing: Why are you insulting the more than 2,000 workers on the customs guard? They're talking like the people who haven't worked anything all their life. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Incredible!]] But they did their work well and clean and neat! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Unheard of!]] It is not, Mr Klubobmann Cap, that any star is attached to the chest, and then he goes, but these are all very good people who are well trained in the field of customs, in the field of arrest, in the field of criminal work. [[Abg. Mandak: Why do you constantly destroy people, Mr. Minister?]] We look forward to these new employees, they will do excellent work for the safety of Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Unscrupulous and unsuspecting!]] They meant that my dealings with the staff representatives of our house would not be more proper. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: A bad guy!]] I can tell you: Since I may now be with you at 3 p.m., I had to hold an award for Mr. Office Director Schuh very short. [[Abg. Gaál: He will survive!]] Head of Head of Staff at our Central Office, Schuh has received a high award from the President of the Federal Republic of Germany because he worked as fire commander of Langenlois in the flood disaster. Not only in the BMI, but also in Langenlois, when working with his employees and for the citizens in the floodwaters, he has put his husband like hundreds of others. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Absurd what you give of yourself!]] These are staff representatives we should ask in front of the curtain and not make bad or down! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Yes, there is a very clear challenge to internal security and to our executive, namely the imported crime! This is a crime – we already know it from the beginning of the 1990s – that comes to us in a new form from Romania, Moldova, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Belarus and other countries of this part of Europe. This challenge we want to face, with the best structures, with the best resources, with the right people. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer:... When do we come to the facts?]] That's what we want to meet! And for this, a number of things have been necessary to reorganise and are still necessary in some cases so that we can fulfil this task. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: We still don't have any facts!]] It must be clear – and everyone knows: The challenges of the first years of the third millennium cannot be met by the structures of the 1970s. [[Call the SPÖ: Black color!]] Not only did my predecessors know that. Many of the concepts we are implementing today have developed one of my predecessors sitting here today. He just didn't put it into practice – he may not be able to implement it either; maybe the time was missing. All that we have done in the context of the Vienna police reform, what we have done with the Federal Criminal Office, what we are doing now with the merger of police and Gendarmerie, do you know who was the first who wanted to do that? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Such a nonsense!]] – Minister of the Interior Rosch of your party! We both went to middle school back then. Since then, the Austrians have been waiting for this merger. Today we implement them with the opportunities of the year 2003! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: But now do wrong to the Helmer!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: (in the direction of Abg. Arbitrators) It's been so long?]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: And you didn't even think of anything?]] The combination of the wake bodies is a very logical step. We would like to pay attention to some of the principles: Both the police system and that of the Gendarmerie have its advantages, but also the one or the other disadvantage. We want to benefit from the benefits of both, that is why we are doing this merge. We will do this transparently and in dialogue; we now want to discuss this paper with our employees on a broad basis. Some points of this: It is useful and necessary that we reduce from 45 command structures to nine command structures. Secondly, we want the full integration of the guards. [[Abg. May. Posch: Mr President, does he not have to answer the questions?]] . I am still coming to answer the questions, Mr Posch! [[Abg. May. Posch:... to your own apology!]] Thirdly, there will be a common name. [[Abg. May. Worm: Time is short!]] Fourth: The color of the uniforms will be dark blue. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: It won't go out anymore!]] Let me briefly come to another point. I would like to thank Mr National Councillor Schopf for his question as to how the Gendarmerie Posts will be in the district of Freistadt. [[Abg. May. Worm: Time is about to come! There are 21 questions to answer!]] I can tell you very clearly, very openly and directly: In the course of the merger of police and gendarmerie, no single guard room and no single army post is assembled in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's right! No one! You always put two together!]] We have this structural adjustment behind us, which is still being done, then work in this area has been done for this legislative period. That's the truth, that's what we're going to do! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One last comment to close the District Army Command. [[Abg. May. Posch: Are the questions unpleasant to you, Mr. Minister?]] There is indeed a discussion, but we should also discuss it very openly. Mr. Klubobmann Cap, your party president, Mr. National Council member Gusenbauer, and the security spokesman of your party, member of the National Council Parnigoni, have proposed to close all district army orders, close all the national army orders, close all security directives and make two to four independent authorities out of the Federal Police Directorate Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Such a fool!]] [[Hö-Rufe at ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Incredible!]] That's your proposal! We think this is a very bad idea. We believe that there is a need for operational centres in the district to ensure further cooperation with the County Headquarters, with the mayors and with the Gendarmerie Posts. This is the difference we should discuss! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This will allow me to answer the questions, Mr Posch. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: After you have 10 minutes..., we finally come to the facts!]] It may be possible, in a further speech, to address any questions relating to asylum and foreign law. I will then be happy to do so if the President permits me to do so. I can come to answer the questions. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: We have with the polemik...!]] Questions 1 and 2: First of all, I can say that the comparisons made in 1999 with 2001, 2002 are inadmissible. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What question is this now the answer?]] – If you are interested in the facts, I may ask you for your appreciated attention. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Are we on Question 1?]] My predecessor, Federal Minister Schlögl, has changed the system. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Mr. Oberlehrer,... Teaching!]] ==References== A new system of counting crime has been introduced on February 2000, so the 1999 figures are not comparable to those of 2000 and the following, I am sure to say this clearly. This is not my invention, it is a requirement that my predecessor has introduced. I would like to say very clearly that I am in favour of this. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This has been a reasonable, right measure, it has only the disadvantage that the comparisons you have made are not possible because there are different systems. The increase in the number of crime in Austria is mainly caused by the increase in mass crime, i.e. property crime and also predatory. The reports received by the regional authorities show very clearly that some of the phenomena of theft crime – theft in motor vehicles as well as in and from residential homes – have increased considerably. The focus is on computers, consumer electronics, mobile phones, cash, jewelry and unbearable means of payment. Pocket thefts and so-called bank connection offences as well as trick thefts to the detriment of older people have also increased. [[Call the SPÖ: How many?]] Most of these increases are due to the increased criminality of foreign groups of perpetrators. In these areas of crime, according to our but also international findings, imported crime structures by incoming suspects seem to play a very significant role. The under-supply of foreign, especially Eastern European markets with affordable goods and the wealth gap should be crucial for this. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's what you're doing!]] Question 3: The number of cases clarified has increased from 199 491 in the period from January to October 2002 to 216 714 cases in the period from January to October 2003, which is a plus of 8.6 percent! [[Abg. Arbitrators: “Quote” is the question!]] Police challenges in the fight against these groups of perpetrators are mainly because they enter into the practice of the crimes, stop only briefly in the federal territory, commit a larger number of crimes and then leave the country again. This phenomenon is not only evident in Austria, it is evident throughout Europe. That is why the Austrian, Belgian, Dutch and German initiatives were adopted on 6 June. A project was launched in November to improve the fight against small, flexible and mobile structures such as Eastern European groups of perpetrators and to destroy the criminal organizations behind these small groups. Questions 4 and 5 [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Where is the answer to Question 3 now?]] The raw data available in 2003 suggest a trend towards an increase in known crimes of around 10 to 12 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Question 1 not answered, 2 not answered, 3 not answered!]] Increases are expected, particularly in the area of property crime and robbery. I explained the causes of these developments earlier. On question 6: Of course, a number of preventive measures have been taken to improve the fight against crime, including organisational measures, such as the allocation of foreign tasks and savings in administrative structures, as well as executive officials involved in core police tasks. [[Abg. Arbitrators: After 4 comes 5!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer:... He has no answers! Are the answers submitted in writing?]] The establishment of the Federal Criminal Office and the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection was an overdue measure to achieve a significant improvement in the structures of central and international cooperation. With the extensive structural reform at country level developed by Team04, this strategy will continue consistently and lead to a significant increase in the impact of Austrian executives in the medium term. In order to increase efficiency in the short term, the Security Monitor was developed, enabling daily investigations of crime development by all executives and, based on it, enabling a much better planning of resource deployment. [[Abg. May. Worm: What question? So you can read it!]] [[Mr Mandak and Mr Gusenbauer: What question are you, Mr Minister?]] Equally important was the development of an Austria-wide uniform guide on crime work, which leads to a substantial improvement in the standard in the security of trace and in the creation of evidence of evidence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] Direct case management with competent authorities abroad or with Austrian liaison officers or via Austrian liaison officers abroad has already contributed significantly to an increase in effectiveness. [[Deputies Dr. Van der Bellen and Dr. Gusenbauer: What question is that?]] In addition, it is criminal police strategy to transfer know-how directly to other countries. At the management level, strategies are agreed and these are coordinated. [[Abg. Mandak: Mr Minister, what is your question?]] The investment in the fight against cyber-crime is of great importance both now and in the future. [[Call the SPÖ:What question is that?]] – Question 6! [[Abg. Nürnberger: That's all Question 6?- Oh, my God!]] Is that right for you? [[Abg. Mandak: Yes, but...!]] Then I may ask for your appreciated attention. Austria invests a lot in the strategic and operational analysis. Specialists from the Federal Criminal Office work at Europol and Interpol, engaged and leading. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... Read the student essay!]] In Austria itself, there are several programmes that we have commissioned, for example, the pilot introduction of the security monitor, a management instrument that is strongly requested and applied by the operational bodies throughout Austria. [[Call:... essay competition...]] Questions 7, 8, 9 and 10 First of all on the agendas. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: We want concrete answers!]] The 2000 establishment plan provided for the Executive 27 316, for the administration of 6 377. The 2003 establishment plan provides for the Executive 25 792, for the management of 5 659 posts. [[Abg. May. Posch: 10 percent less!]] The reduction in executive service schedules shall not be equivalent to a reduction in external staff. Most of the modernisations launched in recent years have been aimed at reducing planning posts in the administrative areas of the central management, the state army commissions and the Federal Police Directorates. Therefore, despite the savings requirements in the federal financial laws, the ratio of actual executive staff to internal services has been significantly changed. The figures are based on the reports of all subordinated security authorities and departments, Federal Police Directorates, National Armed Force Commanders and their internal breakdowns to 1. October 2003 as follows: Number of external staff: plus 163 in the given period. According to the information available to me, the security authorities reported by date 1. January 2000 exactly 22 948 executive officials – and I am speaking here of actual employees and heads, not of planning positions or jobs in the field of foreign service. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. On October 23, 2003, it was 23 111 executive officials – that is, 163 more officials in the field. ==References====External links== In January 2000, after the notification of all the authorities, 3 911 executive officials were employed; with 1. On October 1, 2003, it was 1,705 – that's about 2,206 interior officials less. [[Abg. May. Worm: Answer the questions!]] [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Answer the questions!]] A complete answer to question 7 to the systematic and occupied planning sites at the end of the 12th day. November is not possible in this short time. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I would ask you to understand this, and the written reply will be transmitted. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is inconceivable!]] On the new shots and basic training. – In the years 2000 to 2003, a total of 1,025 executive officials were admitted in 2000 243, in 2001 61, in 2002 412, in 2003 309 – in total 1 025 officials. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Mr. Federal Minister, you did not answer question 8!]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Answer the question!]] At present 540 executive staff are in basic training. Of these, 401 officials were expelled in 2004 and the rest in 2005. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You do not answer a single question!]] In 2004, at least 770 executive officials will be re-entered. [[Abg. May. Worm: How many go to pension?]] The first training courses begin in February 2004. In addition, 930 customs guards with 1. ==References====External links== In summary, 1 700 staff will be available in addition to the Federal Ministry of the Interior next year, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. On pensions, ladies and gentlemen. § 22g of the Federal Civil Service Social Plan Act entered into force with 1. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== According to current status, 476 staff members of the Ministry of the Interior will use this model. This is also supported by us, not only because we comply with a call for staff representation, namely all the parts of the staff representations, but also because young colleagues can be included, a cost reduction occurs in the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior can make a more flexible use of staff in view of the forthcoming merger and customs guarding. [[Abg. May. Worm: Except for the Lokführer! The... not!]] We also support the life-time model for executives, as proposed by the Public Service Trade Union for discussion. I hope that this programme can soon be discussed here in Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: And who pays the pensions?]] As a result of the increase in retirement pensions in 2003 it is expected that pension losses will be significantly reduced in the coming years, Mr Gusenbauer, Member of the Commission. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Who pays the pensions?]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Who pays the pensions?]] I ask you to understand that a concrete statement on retirement can not be made in 2004, as neither sickness-related retirement nor employee will be expected. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Who pays the pensions?]] In connection with today's questions and their answers, allow me to refer to yesterday's APA report by Mr Klubobmanns Cap. The 1.11.2003 is well known not only in Austria the beginning of carnival. [[Abg. Grandruck: The 11.11.!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, in Austria this is the 11.11.!]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: The 1.11. is All Saints!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: With us is All Saints!]] - Excuse me, Member of Parliament, you are right: I mean the 11th of November, so yesterday. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You're a joker!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: And how was your carnival beginning on 1.11.? Tell us!]] I am referring to an APA report dated 11.11.2003 by Mr. Clubobmanns Cap, and there, as we both believe, is the beginning of the carnival. If one does not call the subject so important, one could also call Mr Klubobmann's report a further false report by the SPÖ or a first SPÖ-Fashingsscherz. The following false reports were made in the APA broadcast of Mr. Klubobmann: Klubobmann Cap stated that half of the 550 currently in training executives were only available at the end of 2005. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What question is that to? What question are you making? Question? What question?]] – It is true that 401 police officers and gendarmen are already leaving the training staff in 2004. And on your statement, Mr Klubobmann, that 730 officials are only available in two years due to the training period, I can tell you that the training of a border army official has already been completed after 6 months. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What question is he with? –... the wrong manuscript!]] I suggest: If you have a question about the Gendarmerie or the Police, call me! [[Abg. May. Worm: Answer the questions!]] I'd like to be ready, too. November to give you information. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, Mr Klubobmann, the 930 customs guards, who will be moving to the Ministry of the Interior next May, will continue to carry out their duties. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Question answer!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] [[Abg. Disputes: Question Time, Mr President.]] It is true that with the accession of neighbouring countries to the European Union...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13718	Lords of Social Democracy, that's not how it works! [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] You're making a urgent request here, and you can't hear the answers up here because you're constantly talking in. [[Abg. Arbitrators: These are no answers at all!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I can't do that! I very much follow the statements made by the Minister. He is answering Question No 10, which is the customs guard, the duration of the training. I would therefore ask: I would like to say a few words less about congratulation and more attention to the Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13757	Thank you, Mr President. – I can continue to answer Question 10. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: But the question is not about the cap! There's nothing from the cap!]] Mr Klubobmann, you are also saying that the 930 customs guards who are moving to the Ministry of the Interior in May will have to continue their work. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is not in question 10! That's in the press release!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: He doesn't even know the difference between...!]] It is true that the accession of neighbouring countries to the European Union will remove customs controls at the border, where no customs guards will be required. This means that all customs guards switching to the Interior Ministry are exclusively available for the security service. An exception is only the border with Switzerland and Liechtenstein, because we continue to have an EU external border there. [[Call the SPÖ, right?]] Today, activities such as customs monitoring, monitoring of the movement of goods, prohibitions and restrictions, the performance of excise duties and other matters constitute tasks of the customs guard. – The integration of 1 030 customs guards into the Ministry of the Interior thus represents a significant increase in the operational force of the security executive. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] All in all, I can sum up on this question complex: In any event, in 2004 more executives will be available to the Austrian security service than they did in 2002. To answer question 11: ==References== On 22 October 2003, there were 62 job appointments in the course of actions in the field of the Ministry of the Interior and the subordinate departments. In concrete terms, eleven decisions have been confirmed, three cases have not yet been decided by the Appeal Commission, and in 47 cases the Qualified Use Change has been withdrawn or rejected by the Appeal Commission. The reform of the Ministry of the Interior and the National Armed Forces in respect of seven staff members have not yet been charged - as it is called in the German legal system - with an equivalent job. Socially acceptable solutions will also be sought and found for these staff. The police reform in Vienna concerns 26 cases which are still subject to another procedure. Here I would like to say that 1 574 jobs were to be reoccupied in the course of the reform. The decisions of the appeal commissions were only recently taken. It should be noted that the new jobs were examined by the competent BMÖLS prior to the implementation of the reform. Additional costs due to qualified changes in use cannot be mentioned in this sense, as there has been substantial savings in the area of command structure. In addition, I should like to point out that the 1995 salary reform has already provided the legislator with socially acceptable provisions, such as safeguarding functions for the protection of reform of the staff concerned, which are quite simply to be covered on a budget basis. On the questions concerning police and the Gendarmerie, questions 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20 and 21, I am entitled to say: [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Now it's fast!]] ==References== In March 2003, I was commissioned to carry out a fundamental assessment of the current structures of the guards in the Ministry of the Interior and to present a proposal for a merger. Some of my requirements for the project in the team04 were: Further increase the operational power of the executive, uniform management of the guard, prevention of parallel structures, the best possible international compatibility, streamlining of administrative processes, more permeability and better career opportunities for our employees. From the very beginning, I have put great emphasis on the fact that this project is not developed from above or even controlled from outside by external consultants, because this reform cannot be better and more competently managed and designed by anyone than by our employees themselves. Since the start of the project, hundreds of colleagues from all areas and all federal states have worked on this project in more than 20 working groups. Of course – and I understand that too – the time when this work took place has also been a time when speculations, sometimes also irritations and misreports have occurred. The uncertainty caused by calls and intermediate reports of some political voice among the employees is now over because the expert paper is on the table. With regard to an uncertainty which, as I have heard, has been spread by representatives of the staff of a group, I should also like to make a clarification here in front of the House. [[Abg. Oillingers: There's no more of that!]] There will be no reduction of planning sites in connection with “Team04”! This is not a task, nor is it provided for in the project paper. [[Abg. Oillingers: They're already reduced!]] That is not what we want, ladies and gentlemen. On Friday, 7th. November, the concept “Team04” was handed over to me by project manager Brigadier Lang. This Monday I presented the paper to the public during a press conference. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Now even the ÖVP has fallen asleep! Even the dumb sleeps!]] [[Contradiction of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer) That's where you learn! Write along! There you learn something – always!]] At the same time, the entire 140 pages of paper was published on the home page of the Ministry of the Interior on the Internet. The creation of a joint guard of police, gendarmerie and customs guards is a major modernisation in the history of the Austrian security executive. We want to achieve this objective in a joint effort and in an open dialogue. I also want to take time here to introduce this important project to a fast and broad process of opinion with our employees in order to achieve the best possible common outcome. That is why I will explain and discuss the key points of the planned steps with Brigadier Lang in many information events throughout Austria with our employees in the coming weeks until about the end of February. What is now available is the expert's proposal. What I want is a concept that has not only been developed by the employees, but that can also be borne and lived by most of them. This is the goal of “Team04”! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For me it is also clear: Not every recommendation now contained in the expert proposal will be able to be implemented at 100 percent, but any constructive proposal presented in the course of the project will be seriously discussed and balanced. We want to implement the merger as quickly as possible, and therefore we will inform our employees and also the public quickly and comprehensively of each step. I have already given an opinion on the questions relating to District Army Commanders, including the questions concerning police and gendarmerie districts. [[Abg. May. Worm: Where? Today?]] I have already given an opinion on the question of the watchrooms and Gendarmerieposten. As regards your questions regarding jobs, service models, career opportunities and travel fees [[Abg. May. Posch: Question 12 did not answer you!]] We are currently in an information and discussion process, but in no decision-making process. I would ask you to note that we are discussing this expert paper with our employees in order to achieve the best possible result. That is why we can only answer these questions closely afterwards, because I want to involve the employees in the decision-making process. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Turn around, please!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] [[Call the ÖVP – towards SPÖ –:Listen! Listen!]] On the question of the Austrian Convention: You know that the issues of government structures and authority competences are dealt with in the Committee 6, and that is a good thing. We will not only presuppose the outcome of the Convention by combining and simplifying the guard bodies, but we will do an important work to ensure that the Convention can achieve a good result on this issue, and we are also willing to provide our information, our knowledge in this Convention through experts or members. On question 19: It is not determined against officials, but it is clarified according to the legal principles of suspicion. With destination date 10. In 2003, four officers from the Central Office, 52 officers from the Gendarmerie, 25 police officers, seven police officers and 41 external persons were involved in these investigations for possible suspicions. By federal states in Burgenland 18, in Carinthia eight, in Lower Austria 14, in Upper Austria 15, in Salzburg 12, in Styria eight, in Tyrol eight, in Vorarlberg four, and in Vienna 42. By the way, I can say that the suspicion of innocence applies to all suspicions and, of course, to any person involved in suspicions. That, ladies and gentlemen, are the facts, these are the answers that illustrate how we put the executive in the 21st century. ==References====External links==
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14017	We are now going into the debate. Mr Parnigoni is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). He wishes a voluntary time limit of 8 minutes. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Ten!]] – The 10 minutes then correspond to the legal time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14051	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. Minister! Mr Federal Minister, I have really listened closely to you now and have heard the following: First of all, you cannot keep all the saints and the beginning of carnival apart, and secondly, I have found that you do not even know how many officials you actually have in your ministry. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's it!]] Therefore: Do you know what really is the worst for Austrian security? – The worst thing is, Federal Minister, that you have lost your credibility. That's really it! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] That was also the impression that every spectator had at the “press hour” where you have been rightly accused by the journalists of saying the untruth, and where you have actually tried to simply speak of the dramatic rise in the crimes or crimes in Austria. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Excellent!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Sovereign Streetr!]] You have now seen your speech, which lasted more than 30 minutes: The club's own club has just given me some intermediate applause. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] So the credibility of the Minister is really hard to deal with, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Counting is not the strength of Parnigoni – continue to count up to one!]] Federal Minister! I have actually believed that you are now taking advantage of this urgent request and will say something about the future, the improvement of the crime rate. But you just let this chance pass. Again the usual: Beautiful dyery, rumours, untruths, untrue attacks against the critics, assaults on the personnel representatives and attacks against the opposition – as if the opposition were responsible for the miser in the field of internal security! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: For the assaults already! The opposition is responsible for the interruptions!]] This is, in fact, a distortion of the facts. In reality, everyone in his circle knows a victim of criminals, namely those criminals who have not really been captured. We know exactly that in the case of property offences only more than every fifth crime is resolved – and for that you are responsible, Federal Minister, not the officials, you are responsible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! How should anyone believe that you will now take effective action? How is anyone supposed to believe that with the combination of Gendarmerie, Police, Criminal Police and Customs Guard, you really don't just want to play your party-political games? How should a Minister of the Interior, who is not credible himself, fight crime and criminals? That is why we will also inform the public today. The fact is that in 1999 there were around 500 000 offences, that there were around 600 000 in 2002 and that when we add up the figures, there will be about 670 000 crimes in 2003. Ladies and gentlemen! Three-quarters of these are property crimes. This means that any third household in Austria will be affected by a theft, burglary or robbery. – This is your security policy, Federal Minister! Shame! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Yes, exactly!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Against these naked figures, you are now taking place with a greater crime fight with a beautification attempt. Although in 2003, by the end of September, 10 percent more cases have been resolved than in 2002, that is true. For this, the executive officials who have committed themselves and save what is to be saved under the misguided circumstances for which you are responsible. The officials really deserve our thanks! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But, Mr Federal Minister, it is not the number of cases that have been resolved, the ratio, the relation to the crimes and the number of crimes that have not been resolved is crucial. There, Minister of State, I should like to show you the following very carefully. [[The speaker holds up a statistics in the form of a column diagram]] The number of crimes has increased from 600 000 to 670 000 in one year. [[Abg. Neudeck: He doesn't see it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (on the Federal Minister of State, Dr. Strasser, sitting on the government bank) There he sits if you do not know!]] The number of unexplained cases, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, has increased by 15 per cent, and the rate of education has actually fallen below 40 per cent. Therefore, more than 53 000 other unsolved offences are expected in 2003. Is this a successful security policy that this Minister has to answer? – No thank you, Minister! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] Federal Minister! Furthermore, you argue with the Romanian gangs who are responsible for this. However, looking at the figures for 2002, it can be seen that Romanians are not even 1.5 percent of all identified suspects. If you now believe that you can blame an outside enemy to cover up your inability, I'll tell you: You won't really succeed. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] What are the causes of the rise in crime in Austria? – You are not talking about the causes, Mr Minister, because you are responsible for them yourself. Since taking office, you have been working around the Ministry of the Interior in a way that is always based on the fact that you can enforce your party policy interests. They don't care about the rule of law. You have an disturbed relationship with this, because you are not interested in decisions of the highest court. We have already seen this in the field of civil servants and also in the question of federal care. Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time – Klubobmann Cap has already said it – you have also implemented a savings policy in the interior area, which has led to a very bad situation in the security device. Here, in turn, your tricks and untruths come out. The fact is that there were over 2,000 officials in 2003 less than in 1999. The Minister announced that in 2004 – I have read it – it should be more than 2,000 officials. He meant that 930 customs guards would be more in the Ministry of the Interior. - That's all right. But I know that today, at the northern border in Gramette, customs guards are serving at the border and also taking over those tasks that the border police are carrying out at the large border points, the great Grekos. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a fool!]] Of course, as long as Schengen is true in the way it is now, these will continue to fulfil exactly the same task. How will they be available for other executive tasks? That's a total nonsense! They say 550 are in training, and signal that these 550 are immediately available. That's not true either! You're trying to cover it now. Of course, 251 of these 550 will only be available in 2005. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: That's not true!]] And of the 740 you will take up in 2004, as you have said, you know very well that these will only be operational forces two years later – except you will only make them up in the short term, not completely complete and in turn create a new official type, which may not have grown in many tasks. The "Team 04" paper says you want every official to be able to perform all tasks. I am, however, excited about how this should work in a shorter period of training.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14285	Deputies! You want to make a request. Your speaking time is over in a few seconds.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14303	I am therefore bringing, because I see that the Federal Minister is unable to fulfil his duties in the interests of the security of citizens, to submit the following request: [[Abg. Großruck: Many applications, much honor’!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] And that is because he simply wants to go through the reforms he has announced, see Team 04, and not stick to what others are doing, namely before going to the public to discuss these concepts with the officials, with the staff representation accordingly. He therefore does not take any account of the staff, the many thousands of officials. I can tell you one thing: I was in many Gendarmerie commanders, I was in many watchrooms. [[Abg. Grossruck: What did you do?]] If I hear what my colleagues are saying, I can assure you that, if you do not take this seriously, it will continue to lead to a dramatic increase in the number of crimes and will continue to be badly ordered about the security of citizens in that country.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14377	Mr Parnigoni, in accordance with § 55 para. 1 motion for a resolution tabled by the Commission on the refusal of confidence to the Federal Minister for the Interior is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Lopatka is next speaker. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14401	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I've heard a few speeches from Klubobmann Cap. I am more and more convinced that he has a strange view of free speech. Free speech actually means: free from facts and also free from any seriousness. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is a little too little even for a weak opposition. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Mr Parnigoni! It was not easy for you to justify why you make a request for distrust. Actually, the reason was quite sad. I give you the answer to why this statement was miserable: Like other colleagues, you will have read the Austrian daily newspapers on Monday. [[Abg. May. Worm: Crime is on the rise!]] You will have noticed that the Minister succeeded with this “Team 04” a big throw. ‘... Ernst Strasser is the best interior minister that this Republic has produced in the past decades.” Thank you for the applause. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP, as well as congratulation with representatives of the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] But the quote does not come from me, but that was the assessment of Ernst Strasser’s work, in the issue of the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of Monday. In the same way, the government-critical “Salzburger Nachrichten” have judged the Minister. And, of course, this assessment implies that its predecessors did not have the force of enforcement or the strength of decision necessary for an interior minister to make the necessary reforms. [[Abg. May. Worm: Crime is on the rise! That's fact!]] I am allowed to quote the “Salzburger Nachrichten” further because they have put it to the point. It also reads in this article: “... He’s – meaning Ernst Strasser – “for a very long time is the first one that can’t be misused as a puppet of the rigid device. His merit is that he's just turning this device back to ground. And that he has this device...” – now it comes, that’s the task! “... to meet the increasing demands of modern crime control. Police and Gendarmerie, that was the SPÖ's domestic power. Each post of a police director, a head of the Gendarmerie, was often filled with loyal comrades, regardless of the possible qualifications.” [[Abg. May. Worm: That's not true! Look at Tyrol!]] That's the puddle core, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, it hurts that you can no longer switch and operate as you have been used to for a long time, in one of the matters of internal service, big – you could also say: bloated – security device To care for your people accordingly. Here Ernst Strasser has exactly the right goal of bringing more officials to the streets, bringing them on the ground, and having fewer officials behind the desks. Ernst Strasser is a man of action. And that hurts you. Straster is known for making serious when it comes to our safety. That's it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] You will not be able to imagine now that the “standard” is an institution that is particularly close to the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Not really!]] But on Monday it was also clear in the “standard” what one thinks about the work of the Minister of the Interior. It is said in the “commentary” of the “standard”: “The black Minister of the Interior is attacking what has made many of his red predecessors mold into drawers for decades. This is also the combination of police and gendarmerie. (...) No one can blame him for the fact that he now wants to realize it." Unfortunately, because today, for whatever reason, it was you who blame the Minister that he is now also implementing this long-term reform in order to come to a new security structure. To make this a accusation to the Minister and even to present a motion of censure today, that is really only the SPÖ. Distrust deserves the uncertainty policy you have pursued here today. That deserves mistrust, I tell you, and not Ernst Strasser's security policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let me give you a few more facts. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What facts?]] – I come to the facts, for example, the fact that the SPÖ has set out in its Security Regions for Austria programme. [[Abg. Oillinger: Your facts! That's the problem!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: What's a fact?]] The fact is that there is this programme and that it is here, Mr Oellinger: 23 to 25 security regions. - Listen, listen! [[The speaker keeps a paper up to date.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: “lords ”! That's right there!]] Security regions! You don't even know your program? – It says here: 23 to 25 security regions. – So read your program again! Maybe you forgot. Maybe you want to forget it, too. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: It was never meant seriously! An air bubble without serious!]] This would lead exactly to what you complain or claim today – see Question 12 – that now district army commanders are threatened by the closure or that they are being assembled. – Yes, they will be put together when we implement your concept! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Not at all!]] No, if we implement the concept of Minister Strasser, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You can read out how your request is motivated. That's interesting. Question 12 does not ask which gene army posts in Austria are threatened by the closure – no, it is only about Carinthia! Three times you can guess why. In Carinthia, the country elections are known to take place. You only forgot Salzburg, because then you would have had both federal states. It is your concern here to be insecure in the election campaign. [[Abg. Oillinger: They wanted to bring facts!]] They also claim that, on the basis of the project's draft of "Team 04" Gendarmerieposten, there is a closure. – That is also incorrect. Rather, it is true that no Gendarmerie Posts will be closed. [[Abg. Oillinger: Mr Lopatka! They wanted to bring facts! Facts, please!]] I'll bring you another fact. [[Abg. Oillinger: What was the first fact?]] It is claimed by SPÖ that Ernst Strasser wants to build an ÖVP party police. - Listen, listen! I can only say that – Mr Cap, you said that yesterday –: As the bad guy thinks, so he speaks! They were long enough in the vicinity of SPÖ Ministers, especially in the surroundings and near the Interior Minister Karl Blecha. It was he who had to resign because he was shown that he had, of course, built a SPÖ party police force and that he had given a legal and an illegal order at the Lucona affair, where at least six victims of death were to be complained – that is true. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That is completely wrong what you say! They say the smooth untruth! That's not true!]] That was the reason he had to resign because he wanted to prevent the persecution of Udo Proksch and his fellow suspect compliments at the time. I would like to give you the statements made here in front of an investigation committee, on the basis of which it has been demonstrated that the only thing at that time was the SPÖ Minister of the Interior – and was only about it – to cover up proven millions of frauds – after all, six people had to pay for it with their lives, and that it was at that time the top goal to use the police as a cover-up and blackout machinery. We want to find out, I'll tell you. And we don't want such an interior minister. Take note of this! If you say we want a party police force, I'll tell you: The opposite is the case, ladies and gentlemen. Take note of the following: If crime increases, we need reforms. And crime does not rise because we are making reforms. That's a mistake of the facts. I come to the conclusion: We want a powerful executive. We want a police, a police unit, free from such machinations as have been demonstrated for the past in investigative committees here. Take note of this! And take note that security is so important to us that despite the consistent savings rate we comply with, Ernst Strasser is the only minister who has a plus of employees. Ernst Strasser has the necessary enforcement power here. He therefore deserves our trust, including your trust. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Certainly not!]] Your policy of uncertainty can only be distrusted.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14699	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14728	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lopatka has prefaced a proverb. The urgent question and also the speeches of Mr Cap and Mr Parnigoni were actually put under the proverb: As the bad guy thinks, so is he! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Your ideas, your accusations, all of them, and especially the fact that party-political games would be made, show yes, from what points of view or with what thought you have made politics and have done it again and again. This is really a profoundly old socialist habit to set party political standards everywhere in all political actions. [[Abg. Reheis: That's a hard time! ...!]] That's what you used to do when you were still responsible for government. What really shocks me is the following: In your case, a reform cannot at all have the purpose of organizing, reorganising things that are simply no longer contemporary or are no longer working well, but in your case, a reform can only have the purpose of making party political transformations. And we reject this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Her socialist ministers were not at all happy with reform. They left everything at the old place. For example, although the merger of the Gendarmerie and the police was always in the mouth, as the Minister has already said, no one has dared to do so at all. [[Abg. May. Worm: Austria was safer!]] It was important to you to introduce power in the security field, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy. [[Abg. Reheis: Success has given us justice!]] I'm going to tell you this now because you keep saying that Minister Strasser would dye, dye, and so on: There are 13 red, five neutral and four black bosses of all Federal Police Directorates and of all National Army Commanders in Austria. This is the result of socialist personnel policy! You can really ask yourself this: What permission to make Do you even have such a request? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They have colored red: the police departments Vienna, Graz, Salzburg, Linz, Innsbruck. In all these police directors are police directors belonging to SPÖ. You have to be aware of this, and then you can consider whether you still want to talk about coloring and coloring, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I can already imagine that this is unpleasant to you, Mrs Worm. [[Abg. May. Worm: No, that's not unpleasant for me!]] You just don't want to hear the truth. Mr Parnigoni and Mr Cap, if I look at your urgent question, I must say: Already in question 2, you prove that you really have little idea of the development of crime, of the type of crime, or you don't understand it, because you ask: “What is the reason for the massive increase in property crime by 28 percent from 1999 to 2002?” – Question 3 then reads: “Why has the Enlightenment Rate reached a record low at 40.79 percent in 2002 for all criminal proceedings?” Ladies and gentlemen! Most of the crime is not homemade, but is imported. It is a criminal tourist, a professional criminal who comes from abroad and who just believe that they can offset the wealth deficit to their countries by attacking, robbing, or committing other property crimes. 69 percent of the prisoners in the State Criminal Court in Vienna are foreigners. In view of this, you can no longer claim that most of the crime is committed by Austrians, but that proves that most of the property crimes are committed by foreigners. [[New call of the abg. May. Worm.]] Mrs Worm, everyone knows that the investigation rate in the case of property offences is always low, which we can also see from the figures from the past. That is quite simply the case, and we will not be able to change that either. Through the open borders, the problem has worsened enormously: Hardly a car has been stolen, it is already brought across the border, and often not even the advertisement has been refunded, the perpetrator and also the stolen property are in security. [[Abg. May. Worm talks – across the banks – with Abg. Scheibner.]] Mrs Wurm, be careful! [[Abg. May. Worm: Your clubman speaks to me!]] You know that anyway, because you're in the Committee on the Interior. You have read the security report, so you should actually know the causes of crime better than you present it here. It's a shame you don't know yet! [[Abg. May. Worm: Look at your Minister of the Interior!]] You know, the times when the perpetrators broke out and went to Ögussa afterwards to sell the jewelry there, and then were caught there when selling, are over, these times are no longer there, because the property crimes are also in the hands of organized crime. These are professionally organized groups of perpetrators, who enter, quickly access and are gone again in the now, and they simply cannot be made hard by the executive. Ladies and gentlemen! A more executive you demand is a part of the fight against crime, but certainly not the all-healing, but there must be a wealth of further measures. The population has the damage. The only thing that would really be effective and what we could do is close the borders again, but you don't want that and many others don't want it either. [[Abg. Parnigoni: A Chinese wall would be a suggestion!]] A Chinese wall is not necessary at all, but we know very well that these criminal acts are mainly practiced by Romanians. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Iron Curtain – that's what you want!]] The statistics you brought here, Mr Parnigoni, are not at all right. It is Romanian gangs that beat brutally. The removal of the visa requirement for Austria has been disastrous. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is the responsibility of the Minister!]] We want the reintroduction of the visa requirement, Mr Parnigoni. They could make a significant contribution to restoring security in Austria by reintroducing visa requirements. They could support the Minister of the Interior in Brussels if he asked that the visa requirement for Romanians be reintroduced at least temporarily. You could support this claim by your EU delegates in the interests of the Austrians. You could do something to enable effective crime control in Austria, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap has taken up this request and has also raised it in the media. Today, however, I have not heard of it from his side. I just hope that you, Mr Cap, will not distance yourself from it now. You have quite rightly recognised the cause, and I would like you to do a little information work in your group and also to influence your EU delegates to ensure that we enforce Austrians at least a temporary introduction of the visa requirement for Romanians. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is not in question!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I admit: The crime is too high for me too! I want all people to be able to go to the bank without having to be afraid of being attacked. I want you to find the apartment without harm when you get home in the evening, just the way you left her. But we do not achieve this by persistent attacks, by accusations, there will be something colored, recolored, or anything else, but by together considering what we can do. But not a single constructive proposal has come from you so far, but only from the point of view. Let's do the following analysis: Why, for example, are there staff savings? Why have executives been saved? Why has the number of overtime been reduced? Why was all this necessary? - Because there's no money! Why is there no money? – Because in the past decades Your socialist finance ministers have spent too much money, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! That is why we cannot rely on any reserves at all. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It would be nice if your finance ministers had been watching the budget as carefully as the current Finance Minister Grasser does. Then we would have a financial upholstery which we could use to provide, for example, funds for the field of internal security. You know very well that your call for more money for the executive can also be very difficult to match because we have Brussels to meet certain criteria. We must not be indebted to what we want or can do, but rather we must respect certain criteria. You would be the first to blame Austria again, we would receive the blue letter from Brussels. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Stop being insecure! Start with us to develop ideas on how to restore the exemplary security situation in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14942	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14960	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Poštovani gospod predsednik! I would like to say, Mr Federal Minister, to your speech, which has begun with the fact that here – and I have seen the imaginary witches' cross here, Mr Federal Minister – you have thanked SPÖ for finally allowing us to deal with security issues in the National Council: Yes, you have such a short memory that you can no longer remember the last Friday, the meeting of the Committee on the Interior, where we are now carrying out a new practice that is closely parallel to the Strassian Ministry, namely the safety report – which is indeed an excellent work of your civil service in which it provides the figures, data and facts – more or less under public exclusion, silent and secret – and not more than two hours, because more time was not available to you? And then today, a few days after that, you'll be here and say, Thank you, dear Opposition, for finally having time to be able to explain to the Austrian population for 45 minutes, represented by the Members! So please, Mr Minister, if a speech about security in Austria starts this way, then it can only be insanity! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is the Minister! Wrong! A tricker!]] Federal Minister! That's how it all starts, and that's where the question arises: Who produces the greatest uncertainty in Austria? [[Call the ÖVP: The opposition!]] – No, it is not oppositional Members who occasionally have the opportunity to express themselves publicly on security issues, no, it is the Minister of the Interior of the Republic, who has been responsible for the objective but also subjective security needs of the population for three years, because he has done something that I have always accused the Minister of Justice of Bohemia. [[new congratulation with the Greens and with the SPÖ representatives]] He has brought the police, the Gendarmerie, the security executive into question, in such a way that the Austrian population is afraid and that uncertainty is increasing and increasing everywhere: both in the executive and in the population. Mr. Federal Minister Strasser, with this of your policy and your idea of “Team 04” and your refusal to discuss security policy in the Committee on the Interior with the opposition, you lay down a behavior and a style on the day that is polarized, which excludes. This reform, which is the biggest reform of the security executive in the Second Republic, will not be completely negative by us – and this, Mr Minister, will not surprise you, Mr Pilz has already said that –, no, it will partly be positive. What we criticize is your style, which you show! Instead of agreeing with the staff representatives, with the trade union, with those acting and also with the opposition – for security is a concern to all representatives of the people and not just supposed to be the Minister of the Interior! –, go the typical Strasser’s way, all about the media, everything about the newspapers. I now have the suspicion, after I have heard Mr Secretary-General Lopatka, that you are doing this to give him substance for his speeches in Parliament so that he can quote from newspapers. Ladies and gentlemen! These signals of integration, of mutual redundancies, which must go from the venue, which must go from the head of the department, Mr. Federal Minister, otherwise this security reform – and I can guarantee you – will go into the pants in the truest sense of the word. That's not what we want! We want to have implemented urgently necessary reforms, and they are to be discussed in advance, and you are not to polarize, but to involve them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! As a member of the Committee on the Interior, especially in the last few weeks and months, but actually all the years since you were ministers, what gives me the most to think about is your dealings with the rule of law. Federal Minister! They persistently ignore OGH decisions. They persistently refuse to execute what the Supreme Court finds in its decisions. They continue to adhere to a procedure which has already been found to be illegal twice. Federal Minister! Although you – which was actually a reason for hope – after the second knowledge of the Supreme Court on Federal Care, you have withdrawn your Federal Care Directive, which has long been recognized as what it actually is, namely illegal, which has been confirmed by the OGH, this has in practice had zero consequences. In fact, despite the need for asylum seekers and the fulfilment of the criteria required by the law, they are not included in the federal care system. Men standing alone, but also whole families, children, even unaccompanied minors are not included in the federal care! [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: That's not true!]] You're not afraid of it, Minister of State! On the contrary: They just impoverished the whole thing! You impoverished the whole thing by trying to make the public aware that these are always only isolated cases. Federal Minister! The list we have – I don't know how your cabinet works, but I know you also have it – the list of church organizations and the non-Church NGOs that have been transmitted to us and is known to us is long. Their behaviour, Mr. Federal Minister, is the typical negative-Austrian, feudal-hospital behaviour, according to the motto: Oh, one case! Well, let's get rid of that! If someone succeeds in pushing up to the ear of the Minister of State, you may be able to help him. Federal Minister! That's a system question! It is a system question if one persistently breaks the rule of law. It's not supposed to depend on whether or not Ernst Strasser just caught on the right or on the left leg, so well cheered or not well cheered. We're worried about this, Minister. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I can tell you – and this is just a small extract of what has been brought to us – a few cases: Eight-member family from Lebanon, three minor children, the youngest five – 4th. Not included in November; Ms. from Nigeria, wife from Ghana, wife from Somalia – not taken up; on 5 May 2008 Eight-member Chechen family not included; five-member Czech family separated: Father with two children put on the street, the UNHCR intervenes in court, so to speak, and then at least the woman is allowed to stay. I bring other cases: Friday, 7. November: Women 18 years old from Somalia – not taken up; seven-person family from Chechenia, mother pregnant, four children: taken up, however – and that is what makes me the most outraged – again. This woman then – and now I already announce the positive end – has on 11 November. On November 11, a child was born, and the MA 11, the Wiener Jugendamt, asked that it be somehow regulated so that the insurance would remain. This is the essential thing in the case of asylum seekers: They lose insurance and thus protection when they get sick and have to go to the hospital with the discharge from federal care. And a high-pregnancies who's just before childbirth needs a hospital! [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: This is the untruth!]] If such a person is released from federal care and this is regulated only after asking and begging the MA 11, then I can only be surprised. I do not know, Minister of State, how you characterise this behavior. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: It is the untruth!]] I characterize it as inhumane, Mr. Federal Minister! Finally, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to say: [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In view of all this human suffering, the reference to the fact that, in addition, you are wasting a lot of means of taxation – that is, in the whole question of NGOs’ complaints, where it is a matter of getting back the funds – is just a marginal remark, but this is also a non-ordinary behavior. From all the sayings I conclude: With this leadership, as I have now described it on the basis of copies, you, Dr. Ernst Strasser, break every day and in my opinion deliberately the Geneva Convention on Refugees and the Constitutional European Convention on Human Rights. In addition, ignore the highest dishes. So what are you doing? – They fight a fight against the rule of law – and not a fight for more security for the Austrian population, for asylum law! Minister! This your behaviour – and so we have formulated it in our distrust request – is unbearable for the rule of law. That is why, Minister, after three years of office, we fail to trust you for the first time. In my opinion, you have only one chance to break out: by getting better! – That’s how I would talk to my son!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15091	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15110	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Security is an issue for all parties, so, of course, also for social democracy. Mr Federal Minister, we too believe that reforms in the executive field are necessary. Only: We reject the way in which you have so far implemented these reforms, namely against the resistance of your staff, against the resistance of the staff representation and against the opposition of the public. You alone, Minister of State, are responsible for the present situation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I want to make this clear to you. You want to talk about security, Minister of State. In the Committee on the Interior – for whom do you think we are? – explain to us: No, the security report is to be completed! They also explain to us: The Team04 report will be presented in fourteen days. – Mr Federal Minister, you presented it on Monday! What do you think we should think of you? – You have claimed that you do not know the initial report of Team04. Mr. Federal Minister, you knew him – we know it – because you thanked Brigadier for his excellent work for a long time. – But that will be the subject of further consideration. Federal Minister! We believe that we should talk about security – but seriously as well as facts. However, I think you are fact-resistant because you do not want to take note of certain things. You're talking about more officials on the outside. Mr. Federal Minister, who else believes your numbers? They're talking about not being locked up. – I was there myself, with the media: The guard rooms were locked up at 10 a.m. on the basis of an order of duty! Mr. Federal Minister, who else believes you, if you claim that no guardrooms, no military posts, are locked up? - No one in Austria believes that. You are responsible as a person alone! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! The uncertainty has begun with the team04 project. You explained today – I wrote it down – no fewer planning positions. – I would ask your officials to read, compare and compare pages 66, 67 and 68 on the E1 and E2a Planning Offices, and then tell me whether these figures are actually correct. If you don't answer it today, we'll certainly ask you later. Federal Minister! The executive is insecure. The executive is afraid of these reforms because they were not transparent. The population is also afraid. Allow me to comment on Mr Lopatka's comments now because he has once again quoted incompletely from a newspaper. I quote the first paragraph entirely from the “Salzburger Nachrichten”: “An interior minister will succeed if the crime rate is low and the education rate is high. And: If the population feels safe. Measured by these parameters, Ernst Strasser is unsuccessful.” [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] “The number of crimes explodes, in the reconnaissance, the executive goes backwards. And the citizens feel even less secure than at the time of the worst FPÖ fear-making." [[Abg. Grossruck: Mr Lopatka is more credible!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ Group fully endorses these conclusions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I too have a problem with the rule of law, like Mr Stoisits. Allow me to address a particular problem here, your so-called private intelligence, the office for internal affairs. I have a statement of the facts against unknown perpetrators from the Internal Affairs Office – I quote the following facts on the basis of which an announcement was made: Official abuse in many facts, violation of official secrecy, forgery of evidence, abuse of hearing aids, infringing an incorrect statement of evidence, violation of telecommunications secrecy, suppression of evidence, false evidence in front of an administrative authority, slander, credit damage and severe need. Federal Minister! We discussed here in June, and I have drawn your attention from this point of view to the fact that, in the case of investigations by staff of the Internal Affairs Office, the presumption of innocence is not respected. We can prove it now. It is about a colleague in Salzburg; Officials of the Office for Internal Affairs have paid fines at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Salzburg for better knowledge of the facts. I'm holding on once again: for better knowledge! Federal Minister! I'm not hiding behind my parliamentary immunity. The head of the Office for Internal Affairs was informed of this fine in a two-hour interview, there was no response from your ministry. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the case lies with the court, and we will certainly continue to speak not only of this case, but of the circumstances that have led to it in the next few months.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15175	Mr Kößl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15194	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is worrying if a urgent request is put in place, where one expects arguments to be put into the meeting, which would be an enrichment for this whole subject and would also justify this request – but there is nothing, nothing to be used, nothing reasonable; instead, I would like to say, polemics, and everything is made bad. [[Abg. Oillinger: In case of a request, answers are expected first and foremost!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] In fact, one should be very grateful to the Minister of the Interior that, since he took over the Interior in 2000, he has approached the reform store that had been given in the interior area. We know very well that with a K.u.k.-humanity like that of the previous Minister of the Interior, one cannot make a state and cannot do an efficient police work either. I would like to make it clear because the increasing crime has been addressed: Yes, there is an increasing crime, but Europe, especially in the case of property offences, and Austria is certainly not excluded from it. But the statements of the opposition are, please, to relativize. “Drastic reduction” of the education rate means 0.9 percent. However, they do not say that more than a year earlier, more than 7 000 acts were resolved in 2002. I would also like to say a warm thank you from this point of view of the executive! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Understandably, this development of crime requires new answers. That's why the international liaison of the police is particularly important, more important than ever. For this reason, the structures of our executives have been and will be adapted to today's requirements. What has been changed so far? – A Federal Criminal Office was created, which is a very, very important step in the right direction, an important reform of the criminal service at the highest level in order to be able to deal with international crime accordingly. The Federal Constitutional Service and the National Constitutional Services were set up to better address the terrorist threat. There was a bundle of forces among the observation groups; the numerous observation groups that had existed in Austria have been merged. This too is a very important step towards a better fight against crime. In addition, another important step has been taken by the fact that police and gendarmerie training has also been harmonised, so that there is now a uniform training from Lake Neusiedler to Lake Constance. A very important decision to combat crime effectively is the merger of the guards police, gendarmerie and customs guards. This is a call from all the parties here in the house. The process, how it is implemented or how it has been started, is correct. A concept has been drawn up by colleagues in service, and this concept has been presented to the public. There are negotiations with staff representatives. Yes, I say it is important to negotiate with staff representatives, some points are certainly to be negotiated. There is a wide-ranging discussion with those concerned. I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior for making himself available to him to go out and discuss with the local officials. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: That's his job, colleague Kößl!]] There hasn't been any of that before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] I am in service for 30 years and have not seen a Minister of the Interior outside during the discussion with the staff – not at all in the case of reforms, because there has never been one before! There have been no reforms, there was a huge reform stand at the start of Minister Strasser's office! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Finally, this discussion contribution and the outcome of the negotiations will be included in the final version. I say one thing very clearly: It would be irresponsible not to provide the executives with police structures with which they face the challenges of the 21st century. ==References====External links== Dear ladies and gentlemen! If a “reflection action” is spoken of, one must be clear: At the end of 1999, 95 percent were in the Ministry of Interior SPÖ members or SPÖ-near officials. There were no national army commanders in Austria who were not near the SPÖ or especially SPÖ. I also say exactly why I am talking about “especially SPÖ-near” because a person called me and told me he was not a member of the SPÖ, but he is very close to the SPÖ. – That’s right, that’s how it looks. There was no department head who was dealing with personnel and not the SPÖ. If, in the course of new occupations, a post-retirement is carried out, please admit to all those who, if they meet the professional requirements, do not necessarily need the SPÖ book. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: Now comes the Lower Austrian model!]] I believe it would be important not to use polemics in the field of security and to neglect the spread of falsehoods. It is a matter of fulfilling very important tasks for the people of our country, since we are all certainly required.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15296	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15314	Mr President. Federal Minister! The development of crime in Austria is really very, very unpleasant, and we are all clear about it here. Some examples: Innsbruck, 8th and 9th. November, in one night 20 Tresoinfractions; in Graz at the end of October in the course of a few days 100 housing and business break-ins; in Vienna on 7 November. ==References====External links== November Robbery in a café: “British bags, mobile phones and cash take advantage of four unknowns at night on Sunday in an attack on a café in Taborstraße in Vienna II. The perpetrators threatened waitress and guests with revolvers." My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these are conditions as in the Wild West! These are no longer normal conditions with a moderate rise in crime. It is a fact that the conditions have worsened dramatically. I quote a daily medium: "Meidling protests against drug craze. For months now, black African dealers and addictive handbag robbers have been increasing in Meidling. The population feels more insecure.” Or last week, ladies and gentlemen: “With knives and guns armed foreigners, six men high, for the time being attack a bank.” Or: Attack series on bim-driver here in Vienna: “Dramatic development in raids and attacks on tram drivers in Vienna. The crews are particularly vulnerable, but also the guests in the lines along the belt.” One of the people involved: “There is hardly any colleague on some routes,” – a bim driver – “who has not already been attacked or robbed by the day, explains tram driver Gerhard Eder from Rudolfsheim.” These are things that we need to think about, ladies and gentlemen. But what is being done by you here, ladies and gentlemen, by the Social Democrats, in your question and in the mistrust that she leads to? – It says: “Since 2000, the start of the Black and Blue Federal Government,” the statistics show “a high level of crime in Austria.” So what does that mean? Since the Blue Government is in office, is there more crime? – That means nothing but that you say that we are responsible for the fact that there is more crime. Ladies and gentlemen, the crime is still being made by criminals, but not by the Federal Government and by the Federal Minister, that must even take note of you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It also shows how inconclusive the request of the Social Democrats is: On the one hand, one complains of inactivity, but in the same execution and explanation, there is immediately criticism of an action, an action that the government has put on, namely asylum policy. So you're not right either! First of all, the criticism is that one does not do anything; then a suitable law is created to prevent parts of crime in the future, but then that is not right. This is even so far that in your motion for a resolution one of the reasons for refusing confidence is the following: “The most blatant thing is to be” – the Minister – “Suggest for the legislation on asylum,...” My ladies and gentlemen! One of the most important means of effectively combating crime in Austria in the future is precisely the new asylum law! This will also have to be noted, although some of you are good people, that crime also has a name: Among other things, it has the name “foreigners, ” and it unfortunately also has the name “Asylwerber. ” The statistics show that of 1,229 Nigerians who have committed criminal acts and are aware of acts, 690 asylum seekers are, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But only in your xenophobic...!]] It is now a reality that a large percentage of asylum seekers fall into crime, which must be noted. A subject has already been raised by my colleague, Mr Partik-Pablé, and Mr Schieder has shook his head: Yes, an effective measure is, of course, the reintroduction of visa requirements for Romanian citizens! It writes the “Kronen Zeitung” – please, that’s not exactly an unexpected medium –: “Especially criminal tourists from Romania have been a major security problem since the visa came into force. For nine out of ten arrested are from Romania.” But I call another medium, “NEWS”. Even ‘NEWS’ is already entitled: “Romanian thieves flooded Austria. The executive is powerless.” Ladies and gentlemen! If the media are already pointing out where crime really comes from, then they should be effectively combated. This also includes visa requirements, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But I still have a subject which, in my opinion, has a certain meaning: According to the model of the Free State of Bavaria, the veil flag should also be introduced in Austria. There is a well-trained and trained group in the executive, which has above all also an equipment on the highest standard. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the EKO Cobra, 336 officials in Austria who call themselves a crisis fire brigade of the executive. According to a 2002 decree, the Cobra may not currently operate unless special workers particularly trained and equipped for use are required in the association. There are then also examples, these are amok, hostage take and extortion. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Cobra still has free capacities, according to the statement by the Executive Officer, who has drawn my attention to it. Mr. Federal Minister! I would ask you to consider whether this special elite unit can be used to combat the wave of brutality and crime that has never been there. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Coming to the end: It is a difficult situation with regard to crime. With the restructuring of the executive in the team04, there is no doubt that a right path has been taken, but we believe that urgent measures are also necessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] We would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to be here too.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15384	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Speaking time: 6 minutes if desired. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15402	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, let us talk about the way the Minister deals with the facts. The facts have already been quoted very often today. As a fact in this reply, it was the first time that more or less hie- and solid hypotheses were formulated, which have a single common denominator – if I have heard right now – that a latent xenophobicity is a political stylist throughout which I have only so far experienced from other political sides in this drama and in this clarity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: You are closing your eyes to the facts, Mrs Colleague! You were talking about facts!]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Then, second, some facts, facts and data material sound like reading. I suppose the Minister of Finance has taught Grasser that you read things for security reasons so that you don't drive yourself in somewhere. Whether this has actually been an answer is only because of the fact that we have mentioned figures in a few places, it is far from guaranteed! Thirdly, there are those very mysterious facts which are obviously subject to a partial breach of the Minister's memory: Obviously, he always has memory problems when it comes to people whose right to federal care was not guaranteed or who were rejected when they sought admission into federal care. If the Minister is addressed to him in press talks, it is said that he knows nothing about these cases. For example, the Caritas would have failed to mention the cases. – In fact, the Caritas has often done this for days, if not weeks before. I do not want to read the cases of last week alone; my colleague, Mr Terezija Stoisits, has already done so. Minister! If you do not really know in which cases the federal care was refused, then you have either a very inferior information management in the house – in this case I would advise you to join with Federal Chancellor Schüssel, who has already offered helpful tips in terms of information management today, or you are suffering from stress-related memory failure. Then I would recommend looking for a less stressful job, because of that not only would you have something! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] Let us now talk about a second word from the voice of the Minister, namely the beautiful word “invitation”. – The Minister recently “invited” 70 Chechen refugees on the Austrian border, but again. What this “invitation ” looked like can now be read in the “falter, ” researched in detail. In concrete terms, several people who have demonstratedly wanted to apply for asylum have not even been granted this procedure, but have been postponed in some cases who ridiculed all humanity! – If it is time and organisational to take away the fingerprints of those affected, time and organisational but it is not possible for a mother to wrap her grandchild, then at least I ask the president of the Lower Austrian Aid Agency – Mr. Strasser, I think that you are still: Where is the family kindness and humanity of the ÖVP? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One of these people who was rejected at the Austrian border, specifically via the BH Gmünd, showed a journalist in a Czech camp a notice stating that he had been banned from staying in Austria until the 1st century. November 2008, without him knowing how to do so. With regard to this, it is, as I believe, more than reason that there is now an action for abuse of power to the authority. At least that's not how it's going! Thank you very much for such “invitations! ” Rejected! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, let me refer to the interpretation of the concept of security by the Minister. First of all, I note that all possible diffuse threat scenarios of abuse of imported crime and what else do I know are painted on the wall. In this context, I can only quote him himself to the address of Mr Lopatka. He said: As the bad guy thinks, he's like that. – At this point, however, we have to note, above all, that there is no longer anything in Austria, namely the certainty that a politically persecuted person can get protection from this persecution in Austria and that he has a right to a fair, correct asylum procedure. The principles of the Geneva Convention on Refugees, the European Convention on Human Rights and, quite banal, the rule of law are obviously not respected. Instead, this Minister, who is said to be responsible for security, takes security from a decent procedure, for example to protect against deportation during a running procedure by law. This minister takes the security from physical assaults. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] For example, I should like to draw attention to a case in which a woman from Kosovo was severely abused by her own husband. She landed at the Traiskirchen camp in a house to which men also had access, and she was afraid of death there because she could not even lock her room. This is how the Austrian authority deals with severely traumatized women! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Strasser.]] Obviously there is a separate concept of the Strass security policy, which essentially means: It is certainly not tolerated that someone is criticized or different from the Minister, whether it be the Caritas or the UNHCR. It is certain that a law will be repealed by the Constitutional Court, which is quite clearly unconstitutional, but certainly this does not concern the Minister. This minister certainly does not make a policy in the interests of red and white red, but rather a policy that is deep-black-deep-blue-deep-black, i.e., offers gloomy prospects for Austrian security. Minister Strasser, I can Therefore, you only invite quite, very cordially, according to your own diction: Draw the corresponding consequences in your life planning and save us!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15512	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15530	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! There is no objection to meaningful reforms. However, what is presented here under the cover cover “reforms” is a reduction program, thus threatening to lose the credibility and motivation of the in itself still functioning executive. Federal Minister! This very hard saving course, which is being driven here, bears very clearly the manuscript of Mr Finanzminister: Strasser does what Grasser says! Federal Minister! I just don't want to believe it. But Grasser is primarily responsible for the budget and for the establishment plan, and he is always responsible when it comes to saving Austria broken. That, however, Mr Federal Minister, we will simply not allow! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You must not sacrifice our security, the security of Austria and its people, this dangerous saving course! Federal Minister! Security must be more valuable to us, and from that you have to draw the necessary consequences! I can only recommend: Note our constructive proposals to get back to the dramatic security situation in Austria! Federal Minister! The fact is that the executive is in exceptional condition. We wish we could succeed, also in Vienna – we are the most affected, we have an increase in the crime by 19.5 percent – to repair the situation again. We need more officials in this city! You yourself have confirmed that too few safety organs are on the move. Officials are heavily uncertain due to conflicting statements, evaluations and ultimately also due to lack of prospects. Nevertheless, it can be seen that they are providing excellent services in the service of our country, and that is why we are grateful to these officials too! Federal Minister! There won't be any more police on the street, and the whole numbering doesn't help anything here. Even if it is said again and again that there will be 770 new shots, it must also be borne in mind that, even if these actually take place, it will take years for these employees to be fully operational. In addition, I would like to say: Resumptions can only be made within the framework of the establishment plan, and in this, Mr. Federal Minister, it is planned that around two percent will be reduced again in 2004. So we have a shortened establishment plan, and therefore it is not possible to include additional executive organs. The very tight job plan simply does not allow us to actually come to a more police on the street! If at all, it will be a zero-sum game, and if it goes well, you can get the Is-stand. – But that means an blatant lack of security on Austrian roads, on Vienna’s streets! Federal Minister! We need an increase in the force and not an extension of the savings rate! The executive should get better and not have a lower staffing position! In some districts in our city, we have a deficit of up to 30 percent, on average we are at least 20 percent. On the basis of the very narrow service plan, which is in relation to the actual We already have 700 officials who have been cut short on the service of police officers! Federal Minister! Here there is a danger of delay, and here we need to act quickly if we are to get back into control of the exploiting crime in this city. We need the 1,000 policemen that we repeatedly demand, because only in this way can a safe Vienna be guaranteed. Only with this number of additional officials are we able to restore the in itself high level of security in this city. Federal Minister! That is why we call for immediate resumptions, the abolition of savings, the abolition of overtime reductions and sufficient budgetary resources so that the executive can fulfil its tasks, because politics is obliged to give protection and security to the Austrian people. With this reduction programme, do not endanger what we have built in decades, namely a flourishing country of high quality of life in which people feel comfortable and secure. We are committed to this policy. This policy has priority and not Your savings course!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15591	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15610	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After this debate, I am now happy to find for myself a summary of the combination of police and gendarmerie. This combination is logical, meaningful and also highly necessary. This shows not only the related debates, but also the international experience, which the Court of Auditors calls for, and this ultimately tells you the sense of the house. We will discuss this merger with staff representatives in a broad context. Mr Stoisits, thank you for your suggestion. I would very much like to do this with the opposition party! I have already spoken with Mr Parnigoni, of course I will also discuss with the Greens, and we will talk to the citizens. We will, as planned, prepare for implementation in the first half of 2004, and we will, if we get the corresponding empowerment in the second half of 2004, implement it within this legislative period, i.e. until 2006. This is the plan for the new executive for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Posch, I have not answered Question No 12 clearly enough. I can therefore repeat that again. Question 12 has stated: After the project design of “Team04”: “What district army commanders are gathered together in Carinthia?” – My answer is: none! “What gendarmerie posts are converted into temporary services?” – My answer is: none! Of course, what applies to all of Austria also applies to Carinthia. Have I answered your question clearly and clearly now? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Maier. The representative of the Landeshauptmann also spoke about the systematic planning points at the Kripo in Salzburg. They meant that there were currently 194 systematic planning sites. – To that I reply: I'm sorry, deputies! According to our information, there are 221 officials! However, according to the concept, not only will more than 122 criminal officials, as you have written, be planned in Salzburg, but a total of 213 scheduled places for criminal officials, 122 planning posts in the National Criminal Department, 64 planning points for the criminal service at the city police station in Salzburg and 27 planning points for criminal officials at Salzburg Airport. That's what it's all about. I can cordially invite you that we may read this together! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Maier.]] Mr Maier. On the question of BIA: You say you can prove something. – Then I may invite you once again that you do not only do so in the protection of your immunity, but that you call us the things! We'd like to go after that! Indeed, I think it is a bit strange that you are repeatedly saying something here and also in the public that you are, however, responding to the repeated invitation to present it to us so that we can follow any suspicion of action, just as in the Committee on the Interior last week, that you are very reticent and very silent. I invite you here, in front of all the public: If there's something to check here, then put it before you! If you don't have anything, I ask you to refrain from referring to officials. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the contributions by Mrs Stoisits and Mrs Weinzinger: It is also clear here that asylum is granted to anyone who has so far been granted asylum in Austria, of course, under the new asylum system. The difference, however, is that he will now get asylum faster, because we want to reduce the number of economic refugees – and eight out of ten of the current asylum seekers are economic refugees who have to return again – in this context because we assume that asylum seekers will be able to get their right of asylum more quickly. – This is the point we are introducing with the new asylum system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria is and remains an open house for people seeking asylum. But we do not want to open a back door to those who say asylum and think otherwise. That is right, that is right, that is consistent, that is open, and to this way I stand! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to say very openly to the address of the Social Democrats' Club and also to the address of the Green Club: I can really invite you to talk to the mayors again! Talk to the mayor of Salzburg! Ask him why he's on the 2nd. May has said that he cannot see any additional asylum seekers in his city that this is not possible for him. Why does the mayor of Stockerau say it is impossible to have additional asylum seekers? Why does the mayor of Wöllersdorf say that you can't take asylum seekers anymore? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Why does the mayor of Traiskirchen say that a thousand asylum seekers are already too many, although I agreed with Minister Löschnak at the time? – I understand these mayors! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I ask you that the mayors and communities who want the best for their citizens also find understanding here in Parliament! Perhaps some of you are mayor yourself, then you will be able to appreciate that yourself! All the more thank you to all the mayors, to all the councillors and to all the councillors who help us to provide adequate support to those who need asylum! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs Stoisits! Mrs Weinzinger! You have spoken very verbally here before this body. However, I have not seen any request from the Greens in Salzburg for asylum seekers to come to Salzburg! I have not seen any request from the green councils of Stockerau! I didn't see any request from green councillors in Mödling! I didn't see any request from green councillors in Wöllersdorf! – I have a little the impression that your parish councils say something different than what you represent here! I can really invite you to check your question here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With this I can come to Gmünd: Yesterday was a representative of the UNHCR in Gmünd. He looked at the procedure and took part in a consultation. I would like to clarify something here: It's not the Gendarmerie, it's not the foreign police, and it's not the asylum authorities that carry out the surveys there at the border, but rather it's employees of the District Head Team, so is the District Head Team Gmünd. Nevertheless, I also say very clearly: I thank the employees of the County Headquarters! They do excellent work, in the form of close partnership and good cooperation between the border army and the employees of the district headquarters. I can also tell you what the representative of the UNHCR said after his visit: He agreed. He asked you to model something on some questions. That is quite a legitimate concern. We're going to look at that very carefully. But what's so unpleasant here and what I don't understand is that you assume officials who do their duty and do their work in the most difficult situations that they don't comply with the laws. This is not the case, even if there are not officials of the Ministry of the Interior, but officials of the country of Lower Austria! We are obliged to thank them for making this work careful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can now come to the comments made by Mrs Stoisits. There is a warning that all unaccompanied minors must be included. – Ah, here is the honourable Member. – There is therefore a warning that all unaccompanied minors must be included. Any decision on federal care will be decided in individual cases, in particular and with particular reference to social and humanitarian cases. What's really weird and what I don't understand: Today it is the same process as in the “press hour. ” Some cases have been reported to me. After the 'press hour', I asked colleagues who had referred to these cases to hand over the cases to me so that we can re-examine them or perhaps examine them for the first time. I can't judge that! I called the editor on Monday and asked him to give us the cases. I spoke personally to the editor on Tuesday, and I urgently asked that he hand over to us the cases he has referred to in the public. He always referred to the Caritas. We asked the Caritas. To this day, we do not have the cases that have been made public during the “press hour ” on Sunday. And I do not understand that someone places several cases in the public, but is not willing to make these cases available to the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15785	Mr Federal Minister, I have to point out briefly that the 20-minute speaking time in the reply is only a target provision, but in § 93, GOG, it means that no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes in the debate. So if you do, please complete the remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15800	Yeah, I'm closing right now. My invitation to Mrs Stoisits is: If there is a case to be checked, I very much ask you, even if you have previously publicly announced that at least afterwards we can have the cases. It would be best if you could hand it over to me right now so that we can check it out. A mistake may have occurred somewhere. I don't want to say that everything always works 100%, but give us the chance to look at it, otherwise I would have to think there's something that gives us a reason not to give us this information.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15831	There is a desire for an actual correction. – Mr Öllinger: Speech time: 2 minutes. Comparison: the facts to be corrected and the actual facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15854	Mr President. Federal Minister! Since you have repeated the claim here that the mayor of Salzburg has spoken out against the reception of refugees and could make you understand it, I am here clear and correct: The mayor of Salzburg has publicly stated about the media that your claim is incorrect that there was no conversation between you and the mayor. As a result, there has also been an issue of your ministerial office, in which it was made clear that there was no direct discussion between the mayor of Salzburg and you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15895	Another request for actual correction was made by Mr Brosz. – To be corrected, actual matter, maximum 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15916	Mr President. Mr Strasser, in his earlier execution, claimed that the green councils in Wöllersdorf had not made any request to include asylum seekers in Wöllersdorf. – This is incorrect insofar as there are no green councils in Wöllersdorf, it was therefore not possible for them to make such a request. In 2005, at the next municipal council election, this will hopefully change. By the way, the green councils...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15937	‘By the way,’ in the case of actual corrections, unless you have a second point. Then again to be corrected, actual facts. [[Cheerfulness to representatives of ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The next speaker was Mr Ing. Kapeller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15965	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It's strange. Mr Gaál, which I am particularly pleased to say to the Minister, has asked that these more police officers be recruited. Therefore, he does not believe in the distrust request himself, because he also lets the minister work. Mr Oellinger defends mayor's damage, and others express hopes for future municipal elections. I would now like to look again at the issue of security from practice and to establish links between reforms and security. In the beginning, the example of asylum: Every day in the asylum offices has been almost unbearable to asylum seekers and decision-makers. Often, the asylum seekers were questioned only after weeks of escape and escape, and then they often waited for years for the final decision on their asylum application. And that is really inhuman and unbearable. The current asylum situation, which our Minister of the Interior has renovated and repaired, will reverse these conditions. It is thus created security, security for those who are actually persecuted that they receive help and asylum quickly, and security for those who ask for help from us for non-azylene-related reasons. They are told quickly, unbureaucratically and in legal form that they cannot stay with us. And so it is a good reform, a good reform step towards greater security for all concerned. Similarly, it deals with crime in Austria. An ever-increasing crime, increasingly international and organized, increasingly refined and brutal, is being specifically met by this minister with the so necessary restructuring of the antiquated police and gendarmerie structure in Austria. Ernst Strasser brings together what belongs together, and thus increases the efficiency and strength of use of our executive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It has also changed a lot. The complexity of new crime is enormous. Quickly and organizes operations mainly foreign groups of perpetrators. They come in, become active especially in the area of the crime groups robbery and property and disappear again. A boundless Europe also has certain risks. On the other hand, it must also be clearly stated that, for insurance reasons, more property offences are displayed by people than before. [[Abg. Oils: Here you go!]] The same applies to other offences. There is something like a change in the advertising culture. [[Abg. Oils: ad culture!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] If our minister were not to reorganise, redesign, change and improve, it would be a matter of security in Austria really badly ordered. This reform only serves the security of our country, because the fact is that, in absolute figures, more crimes are being resolved today than in the years before. As regards crime statistics, it is clear that, through modified data acquisitions and more complex crime in general, much is no longer comparable to yesterday. But one thing is and remains comparable, namely the safety data of different countries during the same period of comparison. In such statistics, Austria has repeatedly appeared to be the safest country in the world in the last two years. And this is simply the merit of our executives, my colleagues, and, finally, the responsibility of our minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, just want to adapt to the well-functioning Minister of the Interior Ernst Strasser. You don't fit the action of this minister. He approaches, he solves the problems that his SPÖ predecessors have left unsolved. Security is one of the most important goods of our society and should not be constantly abused for political agitation. Mr Cap, you should not insure the people of our country over and over again and again and again. You should rather trust our Minister Ernst Strasser – and let the best interior minister in the Second Republic work.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16043	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16061	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting that the SPÖ is now so concerned about safety. For many years, it has strongly criticized the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, if it has expressed this concern. It has been said that people are not sure that they are panicking, unless everything is all right. Ladies and gentlemen! As a government party, we are not going this way of beautification and harmonizing, but in this area, I believe, we are all in agreement that the development of crime is a very worrying one. Of course, we need to take measures to better combat this highly increasing crime. Of course, we must take measures to enable the executive to give the people the protection and support they rightly call for. Only, ladies and gentlemen, above all from social democracy, we cannot rightly criticize the development of crime on the one hand, but, on the other hand, we must face up to the facts, before the causes of the rise in crime, and demand completely false or at least insufficient measures. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] A mistrust against a minister who, as I believe, is genuinely trying to answer this situation, to respond to this situation is certainly the wrong way. Similarly, it is the wrong way not to recognise reality, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, when we have to note that it is primarily organized crime that it is primarily also foreign groups of perpetrators. [[Abg. Parnigoni: No, that's not true!]] Mr Parnigoni! That's it. It's not true, you say. We know, however, that up to 30 000 Romanians come to Austria every day. [[Abg. Parnigoni: We must have millions there already!]] Unfortunately not as a tourist, because 30 000 tourists a day would also like to be in the eastern region, Mr Parnigoni. Up to 30 000 Romanian criminal tourists who stay here for only a short time, who know all the sycamores so that they will not enter, so that even in checks, the thief cannot be guaranteed. This is the problem of property offences, partly in the case of violent offences. There is also a very simple measure in this area, namely that – and this also allows for the Schengen Treaty – one introduces partial visas in order to prevent this legal immigration or this legal post-Austrian come, because it is apparently an abuse. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we are already in abuse, we also see that 80 percent of asylum seekers misuse asylum law because they have other reasons to seek asylum here as real political or religious persecution. If only a few days ago – thank God! . An asylum law has been passed, which calls for this abuse of asylum and, contrary to your criticism, lets the really persecuted help increase faster, more efficient, then I do not understand at all why you have come to terms with this new regulation. These 80 percent who are rejected, and we know that they are not going back to their home countries, but they disappear – and the Court of Auditors has noted – to a good percentage in illegality. And out of the illegality – and this is not an accusation either, but unfortunately it is a natural development, because he must survive and wants to have a corresponding income here, but he cannot achieve that in a legal way – the way to crime is also open. If we criticise crime, and you do it too, then look at the situation, for example, in drug crime. Here too – and thank God there are now also measures here – appropriate hardness has to be used. Of course! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Time!]] This is a voluntary time limit, but I understand, Mr Parnigoni, that it is not pleasant for you to hear about this reality. This is an incentive to create greater problems in this area. When it comes to motivation, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy – Mr Gaál has criticized the lack of motivation for officials – but the policy should give these officials support even if they become active. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Exactly!]] It should not be the case that every official, when accused by the offenders of any rights being violated, is immediately also in a political debate, must be justified and be afraid of a disciplinary procedure. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Only on paper!]] Yes, to more staff, yes to more budgets in the internal security areas, national defence and justice, where it is necessary. Here you will find our support, Minister of the Interior. We demand consistent, clear measures. Just criticizing crime, but then not ready to take the necessary measures, that is too little, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16168	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. The speaking time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16186	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister with the cold heart! [[Violent contradiction with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] We are going to discuss asylum policy more often here, we discussed it last week or last week, because this asylum law is unconstitutional in many respects, and I am convinced that it is unconstitutional. We will have the opportunity to discuss it even more often, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What has been going on throughout the debate on this urgent question today is that, and this does not dispute anyone here in the house, crime is increasing and the investigation rate is falling. And this has to be the responsibility of Minister of the Interior Strasser. He's responsible for a missing security policy. If Klubobmann Scheibner has claimed that it is particularly bad in the east of the federal territory, I can make a number of additional contributions to the debate from the West of the Federal Region. From January to August of this year, there has been a third more asset crimes in Innsbruck, 6 000 more asset crimes, 1 500 of them. This is not a small crime, ladies and gentlemen, nor has it been caused by Romanian gangs. Not in Tyrol, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why has there been such a lack of security policy? In my opinion, this has three causes: Structural concepts have still not been presented, partly implemented. Mr Mainoni put her in the press ten days ago. Five of them, Mr President, have you mentioned in my memory, and have said that this was a problem for the executive when I read correctly. The reduction of personnel is also a major problem within the executive. On the other hand, it is still a big problem that you, Mr Federal Minister, are making promises because You partially recognize the problems, but then just don't solve your promises. On the scene of the crime one, so-called restructuring: Hiebei, for example, is about the watchroom structure concept. I'm still good at it. Your watchroom structure concept reminds you, Federal Minister Strasser. You've almost succeeded in doing this. They wanted to lock the guard room at Innsbruck station. 30,000 passengers enter and leave there every day. And you wanted to lock that! However, we have succeeded – with “us” I mean politics and the population – in continuing as a branch, at least, because you were no longer able to do otherwise because you no longer came out, so that this displeasure could be stopped. Thank God! [[Abg. Wittauer: That's not true!]] I also thank the people for their support for the petition with all the signatures, the citizens' initiative. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have also done something with your restructurings, and it was again Mr Mainoni, who pointed out, namely, the Cobra unit. The "cobra" should also provide other services, not only for the particularly high-end crimes, if I may say so, as hostages, terror, extortion, kidnappings and so on. It should actually fulfill what the mobile deployment command in the cities has done so exemplaryly. But that's what you've solved, Minister of the Interior! The next reform, which did not turn out particularly well, was the reform of police and criminal service. But let me come to the scene of two, because the time is already short. I finally demand from you a planned truth. The planning stations, which are systemized, have almost nothing to do with how many police are really on site. It's 413 according to the establishment plan in Innsbruck. On the street, as you say, maybe half. This is your personnel policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16239	Please ask for the final sentence, ladies and gentlemen, because this is not a voluntary speech, but the speaking time resulting from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16260	Mr President. I'm coming to my closing point. Answer the promises you made to the population, for example 34 more police officers in Innsbruck until autumn, seven army officials in Kundl for traffic control – five of them have already retired – for example...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16282	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have to treat everyone the same way. The speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16308	Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16339	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. I would like to draw attention to the following: You have indicated a voluntary time limit of 9 minutes, the colleague Ollinger has a 7 minute time limit. That results in 16, but there are only 9 minutes in total. I'm just paying attention to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16357	Mr President. The problem will be solved relatively easily. Just a short comment: Mr. Interior Minister, I find your statements about the non-existent requests made by green councillors in various places to be a strong piece. I would just like to draw your attention to this. in the past, there has been an attempt in the last few weeks to formulate, from our point of view, very populist resolutions aimed at closing the Traiskirchen refugee camp in Baden and in several communities in the area of Traiskirchen. The Greens were the only ones who, especially in Baden – because that is the place in which we are in the municipal council – refused to support such a resolution, because that may not be the solution. The colleagues of your group, the ÖVP, have, of course, contributed, as have many other communities in the area. You should probably come here at your own door before you accuse the Greens of representing a position in the asylum policy, which would give rise to some criticism. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You've also been leading a killer. I don't know exactly what the discussion is about in Mödling. I can only tell you that if it is done well, as in Mödling in the front brew, where I have made my civil service, one can see that one can also run refugee services, which are not discussed in the public where there are appropriate offers for the refugees in which there are language courses for the refugees in which there is support for the children. If you offer such models in Austria – also in Lower Austria – in order to provide more decent accommodation, you will surely have a partner in the Greens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16395	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. Voluntary limit on speaking time: 3 minutes, remaining time of the ÖVP: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16414	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear hot-blooded Mrs. Worm, it's really adventurous what happened today: One mixes the police reform with the development of crime, polemises a little, goes to the Minister and calls the whole security debate. I am disappointed, ladies and gentlemen, with your disappointment, Mr Cap, by Mr Parnigoni and Mr Gaál. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The police reform, Mr Gaál, is not responsible for the development of crime. Or were you of the opinion that the Federal Minister ordered the development of crime at the border? The fact that property crime has increased is known to everyone in the meantime, but there is no politician who orders it. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: But the boundaries have been open longer! They're not open right now!]] What it is about, Mr Gaál, is to create optimum structures so that the executive can work. That's why it's really happening! What happened today by the opposition, by the Greens and the SPÖs, is an uncertainty policy towards the population, which, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Oellinger, lacks any basis. [[Abg. Oellinger: Mr Miedl, that is not at all true!]] To the structures: I say to you that there is now a draft reform which we have to discuss, Mr Oellinger, and I would like to invite you to do so. I am a member of the Committee on the Interior and I am looking forward to the discussion and contributions of the Greens. Or don't you think the merger of Gendarmerie and police and customs guards makes sense? Don't you think you should use synergies meaningfully? Don't you think it's a failure to have a personnel administration? Do you not believe that it has failed to have a training or to use a common technical infrastructure so that emails are possible among the various guards? Mr Gaál! Mr Cap! Mrs Wurm! Faith You don't believe this or you don't believe it? If so, let's do that! The biggest accusation towards SPÖ is that you've had more than 30 years and haven't done all of this. They haven't taken any reform. Her ministers have laid themselves on the lazy skin and have done nothing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: We were only one of the safest countries!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have made the effort – Mr Gaál, now you listen carefully! – and made a per capita comparison of executives in Europe: There come – I have picked out the socially democratically-led countries of Europe – to an executive official in Germany 320 inhabitants, in England to an executive 434 inhabitants, in Sweden even 546 inhabitants. And now you hear, ladies and gentlemen: In Austria there are 268 inhabitants! This is a comparison that can be seen. I am proud that our Minister has succeeded in keeping this number, and he has promised us to expand it. If we also have modern structures to do so, I am excited about the discussion with you. [[Abg. Dobnigg holds up a document and makes an intermediate call.]] Mr President, I, too, invite you, because in reality, you are a political-conservative party that has not succeeded in taking just one step of reform. What is happening here in reforms can be seen, not only in the security field, but also in all other areas. I invite everyone to participate and cooperate and take on responsibility. [[Abg. Dobnigg: Haha! We already know that!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16514	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Time left: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16556	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! That was actually a remarkable answer to a urgent request. It took place about after the pattern, to answer the question “Why is it cold outside? ” “I like to drink hot tea.” That's what it was. Your reply policy, Minister of State. They have been asked very concretely in detail – why does crime rise? What about post-office development? – and you have told everything possible, but just not given the concrete answers to it. Federal Minister! ==References== The committee debated the safety report in November and asked questions about the forthcoming reform. At that time, on Friday, 7th, you told the Committee members that you were working hard to present the final report over the next 14 days. The Committee had ended, two hours had passed since the end of the Committee's deliberations, and the final report had already been presented to the public by the Minister or the Ministry. – that on your reply or information policy. Now I come to the invitation policy. That is one of the things you have told us today. You’re loading a: The refugees invite you to return to their countries of origin, the mayors invite you to take up refugees, and MEPs generally invite you to discuss. Let's start with the mayors. They invite the mayors to take up refugees. I called you, in the actual correction, the exchange of words, the official exchange of words between you and the mayor of Salzburg. You then told me by the way, that was not the exact question. Do you know what the exact question was? That's where we got to know each other. In exchange with the football Em, which will take place in Salzburg in 2008, it was a question of whether a barracks, the Siezenheim-Kaserne – I think it has a different name – will be freed. There is an exchange between Siezenheim and, I believe, the Riedenburg-Kaserne, and at this exchange the city of Salzburg will be brought to something. Because the city of Salzburg did not give in immediately, one has explained from your ministry of the city of Salzburg: If you don't agree, we'll fill in the barracks with a thousand refugees. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! This is exactly the concept with which you negotiate – no matter what community it is about. If there is a large empty-standing object in a community, then you are immediately present to offer: What does it look like? Do you take 200, 300, 400 refugees? Of course, any municipality will return to such proposals by the Minister of the Interior. That is why we need to discuss the concept of these huge refugee camps. This is also the failed concept of Traiskirchen. So please do not be filled, filled, filled, filled without care, and then still believe this is refugee care! Let's discuss the second: They invite the refugees to return. This is a cynicism, Mr. Federal Minister, who in this form is not only difficult to bear, but who exceeds all that one can imagine, if one takes a very concrete view of the situation of those refugees who have been attacked at the Lower Austrian-Czech border or at the Slovak border, and if one reads what the “Falter” says. These refugees, Mr Federal Minister, wanted asylum and also tried to apply for asylum, but they have been sent back. These are your invitations, Mr. Federal Minister. Third point: Federal Minister! Interesting in today's debate, I have found – I have let this happen to me like a film – that three years ago between the questions of Members of the Partik-Pablé and your answers was still a very deep grave. Now, Federal Minister, no longer fits a sheet between you and Mrs Partik-Pablé. Like a small unit, you act, and Mrs Partik-Pablé says that the opposition should not be uncertain. Mr Mainoni reinforced them and accused the opposition of panicking. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen – by the government parties above all! If this is supposed to be an insurable thing today, you are obviously not used to anything. I remember other times. If the crime rate in Austria had increased by only one percent under the aegis of opposition leader Haider, you would have experienced something else. With a plump Insecurity policy the liberals then tried to carry out their policies, and you did not know what You're supposed to answer that. And now you are experiencing the attempt of an opposition to engage in a dialogue, to get answers, and an interior minister who is self-glorious and says: I'm just talking about something, basically, that we're bending down time like that. – But the opposition is uncertain! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In 2001/2002, 1 600 planning posts were dismantled in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where the service is to be carried out. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] When you walk around in Vienna in a subway station or in the public and actually notice the uncertainty of people when you notice there is...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16625	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16641	... no police there, then you know what an objection it is if the Minister answers here: Everything's all right. - Nothing's all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16671	In the word, no one has been reported for this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Parnigoni on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior by way of Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitution. I note that in § 74 para. Two prescribed quotas are met by at least half of the Members. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who express a sign of this in favour of the motion for a reluctance tabled by Mr Parnigoni. – I notice: The request for distrust does not have the necessary majority. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] Short debate on the response to the question 720/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16719	We arrive at the short debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 720. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes in the debate, with the founder having a speaking time of 10 minutes and not exceeding the opinion of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would ask Mrs Dr. Moser as the first applicant to open the debate. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16744	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! This consultation is about the largest real estate value the Republic has ever released for sale. The value of transport is certainly €3 billion, Minister of Finance. With this large volume of sales, which you are currently placing on international markets, there are various points that need to be carefully reviewed, since these large real estate areas have both residential and social, financial and asset-political components. All these components show that you, Mr Minister, are very much suffering from incompetence in your wealth policy, because, fortunately, I can do that, because the Court of Auditors is always on the road with examinations – in the entire process development process, you have made a lot of important mistakes, because you have munched and suffocated so much that overall the goal you are pursuing, namely to achieve maximum revenues and to eliminate debts, is unlikely to be achieved. Concrete: Mr Finanzminister, half a year ago we had a question on this subject here in Parliament. They owe me a few answers to my questions at the time. For example, you didn't tell me at the time, what role your friend Karlheinz played. Muhr played when it came to finding the loot for this large real estate peacock, for these large real estate areas. You didn't answer me at the time. I really want to hear them, and that is why we have a question on this issue again today. Minister! A quarter ago, there was the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, which dealt with a large audit task involving a wide variety of participations by the Republic of Austria. Mr Finanzminister, although you have also given a brief speech and reply there, you have pointed out how the award procedure was going to take place, which this Auslober Lehman Brothers has drawn, but you have clearly been silent there – I am sorry to say so – in what way has been informed and how other offers have looked out. You've got 11 at the time. July 2003, said – I looked through the protocol – that Lehman has made a major offer and two alternative offers. An alternative offer, I believe, has achieved a little more than 83 points and was thus the best offer. At the time, however, they did not tell us whether the other bidders also offered alternative offers or whether Lehman Brothers might – and that is the point that seems very essential to me! – had any preliminary information on why it would be convenient to present one main and two alternative offers, and also in which direction the alternative offers should go, so that maybe then come out, Lehman are the best. You have not explained this question, and the answer, whether the others have also presented alternative offers or whether this was from the outset a discounted game towards Lehman Brothers, you have also remained guilty to us at the time. That was partly linked to the role of your friend Karlheinz Muhr. That was a quarter of a year ago. Last September, there was a Court of Auditors' Perception Report, which included two essential chapters in this regard, namely the examination of BUWOG and WAG and the operations which led you to sell these large housing companies, which are in federal ownership, for the purpose of debt eradication. This Court of Auditors report has been very clearly quoted in the media and has also been very critically commented or the Court of Auditors' criticism has been fully reflected. Mr Finanzminister! The report shows us length and width in which you have been approached by the missing, buffered and murkiest ways in which the housing companies have been sold. Mr Finanzminister! First: They were not aware of whether you should choose budgetaryly relevant forms with a view to reducing the Maastricht deficit. You didn't know before! The Court of Auditors shall: They didn't have the frameworks explored. Secondly, You then took the purchase offer to the tenants as the first variant of the sale. The Court of Auditors report states that in this direction you have also completely missed out on the matter because you did not create clear conditions and because you built up these obstacles in particular, that as a condition for them to be able to buy at all, 25 percent of the tenants had to show interest in buying in an object. The Court of Auditors says that this has been very diletantic. The housing companies had a considerable effort. I have received clear figures from you on one of my 23 questions in your reply. The assessment costs for these Murks, which had to be abolished by the Handelsgericht Wien, were only €9 655 at the BUWOG, €10 645 at the WAG and €941 at WBG. The process costs at the BUWOG amounted to 17 396 €, at the WAG 17 940 € and at the WBG 11 922 €. These are louder excess costs that the companies have to bear, but now you want to sell. In other words, you have sold some of the loads – I formulate them – societies that you have included in a process risk with your diletantic, false procedure. – This is just one of the elements that also criticizes the Court of Auditors. When it comes to the assessment of the values and the approach to the sale, don't attract the own specialist judges, but you will again give advice to university professors. This award has also caused costs that strongly criticised the Court of Auditors as a taxing element, which was not at all necessary. Why do we have competent lawyers in the Ministry of Finance? Mr Finanzminister! The third point that the Court of Auditors criticises is, for me, the most important point: At no time and in no way have you made a relationship between what you can use when selling through government debt, which can save you interest payments, and, on the other hand, what you can achieve through dividends and outflows from the companies over medium or longer periods of revenues and, in so far, also the budget. You yourself have admitted, in an answer to a question, that these proceeds are quite respectable. But you do not put this into relation, and that is what the Court of Auditors criticises. This is a massive lack of expertise and a mistake that you, as Minister of Finance, should not have committed in itself. So far as the Court of Auditors. But now quite specific to the question you answered me in September: Mr Finanzminister! You've been guilty of a lot of things again. They're talking about company secrets again. Eligibility criteria, facts, figures and data may: You don't tell me when it comes to this engagement issue, Lehman Brothers, because that's a company secret. They provide me with the voting behaviour of the members of the awarding commission. They are generously calling me the people sitting in there: Again, there is a Mr. Plech, which is of importance because he is an expert, again there are your employees, again there are your friends sitting in this commission. The only official who understands something there as a member of your ministry is against it. And what happens? – This official is sent in early retirement with “Action 55” or any other action. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's incredible!]] Mr Finanzminister! I mean, that's not just a need for information, it's a need for committee of inquiry! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Yes, yes!]] I think we should go further! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, there is now a request. Maybe there's another discussion of your answer. When asked what was going on today, you have kept the answer from me, why Lehman came to the train and what was better than the others – that is the point – than Lehman. Why does Lehman's alternative offer with its just over 83 points come in this high rank at all? What's it look like? For what? What's the big qualification? – You once wrote about their international experience and that they have already sold housing companies in Italy et cetera. Well, clearly, you didn't answer me. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Mr President, I know it is time. The last two open questions to the Minister for Finance, because he did not answer them What possible variations of exploitation are there? - The process is running now. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's not going out anymore!]] And perhaps you will also announce how the internal evaluation criteria were. Many questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16829	On an opinion on the subject, which should not exceed 10 minutes, Mr Mag. Grasser to speak. Please, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16847	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps I can start by once again explaining to Mr Moser, with whom we have had an intensive exchange in the past, why we have decided to carry out this privatisation. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In my view and in my opinion, there must be very special reasons for not being privately organized and managed by a company or an industry, but rather being led by the state. That is, for me it is simply the normal case that economic operators are in private hands and are also governed by the laws of the market. That is why I also say to you: If you speak of €3 billion of transport value, you will know more than the market and as evaluation advice. I would offer you that we take the market and therefore supply and demand in a market economy as an assessment measure, which decides what is worth, and thus use the most useful mechanism in a competitive society, namely the market mechanism. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think it simply has to be pointed out that the situation as far as housing is concerned is different from that of the past. There was certainly a time in Austria in which there was a state function. It was certainly in the post-war period that housing was an important topic of the state. However, I believe that today, when markets function again, it is only logical to return to a market economy system and the state can withdraw from the economy in this area. [[Abg. Oils: That's why the plate is in there! The representative of the market!]] If you look at the housing statistics, you can see that on the one hand, social housing is still important and there are also a number of institutions that take advantage of the positive fact that on the other hand, however, the importance has changed significantly, that there is a very clear trend towards home houses and that more than 90 percent of Austrians want to live in their own four walls. [[Abg. May. Worm: That's not true! Desires, but they can't afford it!]] I'll tell you: We're just not afraid of ownership. We are not against property, but – quite the contrary – for property. [[Abg. May. Worm: The people cannot afford it!]] We want to create property and give the opportunity to create ownership, because we know that this will increase value and also provide for old age – an important aspect! – are connected and that property also means security and independence. If you look at the fact that the demand for rental apartments has fallen very significantly and that almost 70 percent of new construction services are lost on house construction and housing property, you know that the majority of the Austrian population obviously thinks so. That is exactly why this Austrian Federal Government has said: We give the tenants a chance and offer them for the first time in Austria these apartments also for sale. – I’m proud that we did this. It was a wise process to give the tenants for the first time the opportunity to create property and acquire these apartments if they want. [[Abg. May. Worm: How many have used it?]] If you take into account that we have always made very clear that the change of ownership of the housing companies will not have an effect on the contractual relationship or on the rental relationship between the tenants and the company, because the strict legal protection provisions of the housing public utility law are still fully effective – which is good, which is important – then you will see that of course we have always had the tenant in the light of our privatisation action in this regard. At this point I can tell you again that I had already addressed the tenants in December 2000 and also made it clear that, of course, existing lease contracts are not being intervened in any way on the occasion of the WGG's change of law at that time and that the WGG's protection provisions remain fully maintained, so the tenant remains protected. I therefore believe that this has been done very clearly by us. The tenant never had any disadvantages, but we managed to open up opportunities and tell the tenant who wanted to buy apartments. – After all, there are about 1 000 apartments in the BUWOG, where there is a very clear interest in buying; 433 contracts are concluded. 183 contracts are concluded in the WAG. So you see, this offer has also been accepted! As far as your statements are concerned, I would not have informed you that: I think there are few questions to which we have discussed more, which have been more and more comprehensively informed and which have been dealt with more transparently than with this question. You have, as you yourself know very well, accepted this question in detail since the year 2000. There are 22 requests that I have been able to answer so far, a large part of which you have made. There is a report of the Court of Auditors on which I will deal, four Council of Ministers, two legislative amendments and four Court of Auditors - one has already done, as you have said, three more have been adopted. [[Abg. Jacob Auer: What else do you want?]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not possible to inform more fully than we have done on this question. You contacted Karlheinz Muhr. I have already told you here in the House that Karlheinz Muhr has not played a role in the question of privatization of housing companies at all. He has no order from the Republic and has not received a euro from the Republic either. – Maybe take note of this today! That's why I just wanted to answer your question. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: I never said that!]] They used the terminology that we had been practicing a “discounted game” in the direction of Lehman from the beginning. – Ladies and gentlemen! I really cannot support your choice of words at first, and I have already said this in the Court of Auditors Subcommittee, which Mr Herb has then made public. – I do not appreciate that on one hand, because one has violated the confidentiality on the other However, this has given a broad mass the opportunity to also read how this award procedure has passed. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: They all laughed!]] More than that there was a Commission with 11 members, in which two board members of the companies concerned, a real estate expert, the head of the German procurement company GesmbH, two department heads from the BMF, a lawyer and two university professors were sitting, cannot be required. – You know my remarks about the fact that we have been involved in highly specialized external specialists from the respective field and that this award has gone with the greatest possible objectivity and transparency. This is a valid procedure of awarding, and if you look at the Court of Auditors' report, you will find that it does not in any way criticise the award in any way. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You referred to Maastricht. The substance of Maastricht and the assessment of whether or not something is accepted in accordance with the Maastricht Treaties within the meaning of ESA provisions 1995 shall be carried out in such a way that a statistical decision will be taken in the wake of EUROSTAT whether it is recognised or not. It is therefore not at all relevant to this process, because it is not clear from the outset whether it is accepted in the sense of the Maastricht Treaties or not, because we cannot decide, but rather that it is an EUROSTAT decision in retrospect. Secondly, it would have changed nothing at all, whether it only applies to the administrative deficit or also to the Maastricht deficit, because it was perfectly clear: The basic decision to privatize is a good thing, for the tenants, because we have offered them the apartments for sale, and also for the taxpayers. Now I come to your argument: You said that we had never compared to the Court of Auditors how on the one hand the government debt and thus the interest payment changed and how it looks with the dividends from the companies. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am following the Court of Auditors a hundred percent in this argument. The Court of Auditors has also said that it is not yet able to assess whether this sale is a success or not, because it has made this very connection. Of course, he is not yet able to judge it, because we have not yet sold it and therefore he does not know how high the sales revenue is, just as we do not know yet. But it is clear: Today, the interest rate on government debt averages about 5 percent, i.e. at least €500 million in sales revenue. Why 500 million euros? – Because in recent years we have received some €25 million in dividends from all companies. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You talk while I answer your questions. You'll probably ask for the next short debate because you didn't listen to me. – I’m sorry, but I’m happy to answer things several times. [[Abg. May. Worm: Do not become arrogant!]] The context is clear: In recent years, 25 million dividends from all companies, 5 percent interest on our government debt, at least €500 million sales revenue. In the sense of the Court of Auditors' statements, it is necessary to say that this is a success or that it is not a success. – I am very confident that we will exceed this €500 million, and then I hope you will agree that it will be a great success. I ask you to decide for yourself once in your terminology: On the one hand, you say “diletantic, murky”, and on the other hand, ask why you don’t attract the BMF employees, and accuse us that we have joined external experts. [[Abg. Bures: That's what the Court of Auditors says! That is the Court's view.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In such a process, everyone in Europe – all over the world! – external experts involved. We do so because we want to act exemplaryly and professionally and because the BMF employees, who also have a high level of competence, say it's about so much, and that's such an important process that we don't want to make mistakes, but that we want to handle the process exemplaryly in the interests of the tenants and in the interests of taxpayers. Look around: Germany has sold apartments – under a social democratic-green government – and England has sold apartments – under a social democratic government, Italy has sold apartments. [[Abg. May. Worm: Then why do you do it?]] – That is, Austria is doing what several countries in Europe are doing. I think we're doing this in a very good way. I can assure you from my side. They've addressed recovery variants. – I have Your questions answered in writing several times. On the one hand, it concerns the sale of business shares, on the other hand it is about a securitisation variant. This question will have to be decided in future in the course of further action. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen: First of all, we have done absolutely right, flawless and exemplary. Secondly, We have given the tenants the chance to acquire property. Thirdly, We have put a penable value on the fact that the sale of the shares or the securitisation will not result in any deterioration of the tenants. So I can assure you that we acted in the Austrian interest, in the interest of taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17040	Mr Grossruck is the first speaker in the debate on the subject, which is now under way. All speakers have 5 minutes at their disposal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17059	Mr President. Federal Minister! After the political games of the opposition, we had hunted at the previous agenda item in Strasser. One shot at the Minister of the Interior with the loaded boxes of the mistrust request, but of course he is missing as always. Now we have the opposition game to hunt grass. They do not now use the instrument of the motion for a censure, which is not the case under the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of the answer to the question. So they're shooting our Minister of Finance now with a political air pressure gun. And They'll miss him too. Mrs. Moser, you have to look at the whole complex. I think you are very intelligent and think you know, read and, of course, understand the answers to the questions and the whole compendium that has already happened in this matter. For me, it is clear that the Minister of Finance has answered all the questions that have come over the past few months and years with acribie, supported by figures. It's all to read. They try again and again – just as you did at the Eurofighter purchase, where it turns out that nothing was behind it at all; the prosecutor has put everything back; the Court of Auditors has confirmed that everything was right – and in this case, too, a successful finance minister has been putting something into the shoes, namely as regards the sale of federal apartments, and you are trying to push it back into the criminal corner. That's wrong, and that's unscrupulous, too. If you, Mrs Moser, want to have the discussion on certain questions, just say that it does not correspond to our ideology that apartments are sold. Then that would be the right discussion. But you do not trust this because you know that the majority of Austrians – the Minister of Finance has mentioned it – are for property creation, for ownership. It is not a core task of the federal government to have apartments. It was once when housing was in need. Now it is at the heart of the federal government's task to help create favourable housing, for example by promoting the creation of housing that is socially balanced, financially viable and also high-quality. This is the main task of the federal government and the housing policy to be operated here, and not the horting of apartments, just as the red municipality of Vienna does, where you may only get a cheap apartment with a party book. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] I would like to point this out, Mrs Bures. If you want to know that this entire house sale of course gets a different dimension, where the SPÖ is now in the boat, then you only need to read the “FORMAT” this week: ‘Privatisation: The new red Immohaie ex-SP State Secretary Wittmann wants to buy 62,000 BUWOG apartments.” [[Abg. Lentic: Oh!]] Perhaps you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, could talk internally about it. Mr Wittmann certainly has more information about the whole sales and procurement process than you do from the Green Group. Perhaps Mrs Bures can tell you, perhaps Dr. Wittmann can tell you why he is willing to buy these apartments. Just, ladies and gentlemen, he didn't get it. His offer was not even accepted because it is too unscrupulous. With in the boat of Mr Wittmann, according to the report of the “FORMAT” is also the former red interior minister Karl Schlögl. Let me quote just so that you know who the Minister of Finance is dealing with as a buyer of BUWOG apartments: “The real estate connection. The SBW” – that is the name of this company, perhaps called Schlögl, Bures, Wittmann, I do not know – “in turn, it is commanditist at BC Immobilien Management GmbH & Co Land use KEG – whose business address is at the same time the office address of the SBW. Through this company there is also a close business contact with IMB Holding AG, which was created from the environment of the former listed Residency AG. The Residenz-Pleite was one of the largest stock exchange advocates in Austrian real estate history." Ladies and gentlemen! Here you may ask questions in this direction, where you really want to bring light into this “new red immohaie”. This would be more interesting to the public than to ask questions which the Federal Minister has already answered on a regular basis and to the satisfaction. I come to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen: The general discussion of the willingness to reform. All parties here say that reforms are necessary. It also says opposition, reforms are necessary. The government is making them! It makes them on questions of pension, health and also on the federal railways and on the sale of housing. I end with half a four-liner to signal the opposition's reform policy: Reforms, yes, they must be, but later, to St. Nammerlein. – This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17103	I wish I had a whole four-liner, I have to say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The subject has already been dried down, there is no four-liner!]] Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17138	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps only a brief replication of Mr Grossruck's embarrassing speech. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Wittmann said that first of all the report has been mis-quoted by you. Secondly, he has announced that he will also sue. If you hadn't said this from the speaker's desk, you'd be sued if you brought completely wrong things here, in fact, just to distract. And that's embarrassing, Mr. Großruck. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For three years now we have been discussing the sale of the federal housing companies. We have been experiencing a embarrassing spectacle for three years, similar to your speech, Mr Deputies. In fact, the discussion is embarrassing because you have seen that you are not at all concerned with making tenants a home owner – I am going to come back to that – but obviously because of the fact that within your circle of friends a large company – there are five housing companies – is a big business. Mr. Federal Minister, you said that the market should regulate this. I can only tell you that in the last decades in Austria, we have been driving very well with the fact that we also had the social housing sector, that we have a mixed housing market, namely because there are many young families looking for an apartment and who have not always fallen on the butter side and can move to the penthouse from Mr. Haider, but who depend on this social housing area to have at all a roof above the head, Mr. Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] But the discussion about the housing companies is certainly seamless in your privatisation desire. They want to ruin everything that is not non- and nailproof in this country. They are ruining five housing companies, for which you have no legal basis at all. Two of these housing companies are non-profit, and you have no right at all to offer them for sale. What you have to say is how often you always lead behind the light. Even the bidders of these housing companies, who believe they are being offered 60,000 apartments for sale, now find out because you are wrong to offer that you can't ruin a third of these apartments, that is, 20,000 apartments, you lack any legal basis for them. They actually bring the bidders behind the light, Mr. Federal Minister. But that's your method. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: We have offered 38 000 apartments for sale!]] They also lead people behind the light, because much more comes to me, of course, how you lead the tenants behind the light. You make yourself here today and say again, we want to make the tenants a homeowner. Here in Parliament, the majority, the FPÖ and the ÖVP, have passed a law, which has replaced the priority sale of the apartment to the tenants. They never had an interest in making tenants a homeowner at all. 1 000 apartments – shame yourself, Minister, be ashamed! – 1,7 percent of the apartments are actually what tenants wanted to buy. And the majority of these apartments will spoil you on real estate investors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] – You may be an associate of the Minister, Mr Neudeck. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors' report clearly shows this and the answers to the questions. Mr. Federal Minister, you have answered a question from 30. June replied that it would be possible to transfer 60 percent of the property to residential property in the course of the retail sale of apartments. What did you do? – 1.7 percent – that is to scatter sand into the eyes – and 1.7 percent of the apartments have been ruined. These people gave you the chance. Everything else is supposed to benefit real estate speculators. That is the unreasonable thing about your policy, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have promised that the tenants will have a chance to acquire property. – From you, they get nothing but sand in their eyes. In reality, the landlords of these housing companies are facing the problem today that they do not know exactly whether they will not be victims of real estate speculators. And you scatter sand into the eyes to the taxpayers and lead them behind the light. You first spoke of €3 billion in revenue from the sale of the federal apartments, then of €1 billion. Today you are already very cheap: only more than €500 million from the sale of federal apartments. So as far as your revenue is concerned, everyone in this country now knows: There's nothing fixed with you! The only thing fixed is expenditure. The expenses to the company Lehman Brothers of € 10 million are fixed, there the consul, Mr. Muhr, sits, your friend, who cuts in commissions of course. But, Minister of State,...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17219	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17234	Federal Minister! You have it easy: There are two dates for a meeting of the “Small Investigation Committee”. I think it's high time you brought light into this dark matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17261	The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17282	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Bures, in the meantime, I believe that there is so much light in the matter that we can no longer see what you are talking about in front of loud lights. They're talking about penthouses. Do you think that President Verzetznitsch, who lives in a cheap penthouse at the expense of the BAWAG-sparers or life-insurers, has still bought himself the Director-General Flöttl in the continuation of a cheap rent? – The opinion reads: The floor plan that he had previously wanted as a planner is so unfavorable that one has to reduce the price so that of course every tenant of a BUWOG apartment would be pleased if he got his property on similar conditions. One thing is also quite funny: Who was the great fighter against selling to the tenants? – The Chamber of Workers has run, made it ready, the SPÖ has run, has made it ready. I don't quite understand why you think today that the number of apartments sold is too small. They would have managed to increase this share considerably. Where your privileged tenants are sitting today, where today the protected managing directors of these non-profit companies may have slammed the wind of the market economy around the ears, you will be nervous. Because one thing is clear: The tenants are still protected on the basis of the legal conditions. [[Abg. Bures: Not with you!]] My tenants are protected. My tenants are better off than those you represented in the tenants' association. [[New call of the abg. Bures.]] – You can still shout like that, we definitely win the discussion. People prefer to live in houses of mine rather than in the community buildings with you, you can have that in writing. All I have to say is: Now it is slowly so, the tenants know they are protected, but your artists, the managing directors were in these companies, feel the wind. That's why they scream. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] Speaking of old hat. Mrs. Colleague! Look, Federal Minister Grasser has advisors, lets this accompany, so a proper price will come out. I have here a 1997 Stoneographic Protocol, according to which Member Firlinger said: “It is planned that the non-profit-making general building, housing and settlement cooperative the ESG Villach” – I would not have said it, but if you start with old hats – “and the ESG Linz and the WBG Vienna, acquires it” – is among the quotes. This will build an empire with more than 20,000 apartments under the ÖGB-Bahner. The price is 180 million schilling.” – Schilling, not Euro! – “The capital values account for over 750 million schilling, but the value of the apartments is more than 10 billion schilling. They tried to judge the matter.” – The confidential informant was necessary, because it was not possible at that time to bring light into this dark. – “The confidential informant also writes: The coalition parties, especially the ÖGB, benefit from the law gap, according to which an acquisition may only take place at the nominal value. One should not be deceived by the momentary rest. The action is also prepared. In the Supervisory Board of the ESG Villach, loud railway tradesmen are – these are those who now strike – “like Dr. Karl Hofsteller and Ing. Emil Maurer, both railways and from the Sparda area of Villach. They were elected to the Supervisory Board to carry out the action. Sparda Wien AG is a subsidiary of BAWAG. If you want, we can now get back to resistance and so on, but we don't. Mrs Van den Broek, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European You don't need an award commission, you don't need a consultant. They don't pay a fee either. You just need good luck that you never get anybody on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17330	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17349	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The previous speakers from the government parties preferred to deal with SPÖ and less with the unanswered questions of the Federal Minister. Mr Federal Minister, one may be of different opinion or be ideologically motivated, that is nothing bad, which is the better housing event of public responsibility or the allocation of apartments; this can be discussed quite unagitated, theoretically. – Theoretically, because practically we have to turn to the processes for which you are now responsible. I am not now discussing – I am sending this in advance – the question of where the property should be located or not. They assume that if the whole thing is privatized, it would be better to privatize it. - Good. But then the crucial question arises, how does this transfer of ownership go about the stage. That is the crucial question, and that is also the control aspect of the matter, and it is also that on which you regularly refuse accurate answers, by the way, also in the investigation committee. That's what I'm going to talk to at the end of the day. You've only read one thing in the investigation committee. You have deprived yourself of the question that you have spoken for so long that no time was left for questions. We will continue to challenge whether you come to this committee again or not. Right now, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is holding the protective hand over it, and regularly the load requests are rejected as far as your person is concerned – perhaps you do not know that at all. You would even be prevented if you finally wanted to be available for a closer survey. Perhaps we can clarify this and, later, we can still see the opportunity, Mr Hornek, in the Committee of Inquiry set up for this purpose. Let's get to practical privatisation processes! With all the theory, the outrage may well rise here, I think. Let us remember the ÖIAG processes for a moment, because I think this is crucial. The “profile” this week writes in his main comment that in Austria, as far as privatisation is concerned, states exist as after the collapse of the Soviet Union, as in Russia in 1990. – In my opinion, this is a correct analysis, because there the question of transfer of ownership from the public sector also had a certain amount of casino, and not only that, there have always been certain people distributed. And that's the problem here, too. Now that we are not talking about whether the property is better removed there or there, we are talking about how you are betraying and selling the property of the public hand and thus, in reality, the interest of taxpayers! That's the subject, that's what I'm talking about. the subject of the investigation committee, and then you block it. But you won't get through to the end. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The parallel to the ÖIAG is laid down. At first, there was this thing with "Minerva" and Wolf. They have been caught in time, and then everything has been denied. There were the usual contacts. With “common” I would not have described the process. Then it was with Mr. Veit Sounde. Now it's pretending he's not running out of this offer anymore. This has been achieved only because the opposition and other public opinionists have correctly opposed it. Nor has it been done with Mr. Schalle getting out of the Supervisory Board much too late, because at that time he already had all insider information. Your ministry is leading and driving this sale campaign among friends, which happens in this Republic. You know exactly who Mr. Veit Sounde is. I don't understand at all that you didn't take the floor in time, because you could have gotten out of the mess somehow by saying: That's not how it is. - No, you've been silent! Only in retrospect did you comment on anything. And so is it here. If you say that there was an award commission at work, I can only confirm that there was an award commission. But how does it look? – You have now left out in this question answer. Meanwhile, I understand why you always want to be silent. Hardly answer, the next fat nap is spread, and to be sure many jump in, so you too, dear colleague Großruck, because you have not illuminated the procedure. How do you think, Mr. Grossruck, that Mr. Commercial Councillor Karl Plech – by the way here written with soft B – will not perfect the concealment – is sitting in six Supervisory Boards, he is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the federal housing companies and real estate companies? He still has a whole network private! One and a half pages of company book extracts are available. You brought this man to us as an expert. This is your privatisation policy among friends. This is economic policy à la Grasser: Friendship and sales.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17413	No one has spoken in this debate, so it has ended. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17431	We continue with the debate on agenda items 3, 4 and 5, which was interrupted at 3 p.m. Mrs Steibl has spoken. The watch is gladly set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17453	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I am pleased that I can now return to a subject that moves people and about which we have unanimity. I would like to start by referring to an item on the agenda, which the Federal Minister has already mentioned in her speech, namely the most important event of the European region in the field of public health, to the WHO Regional Conference. After 30 years – 30 years, as you know, a SPÖ-dominated government – this government succeeded in bringing this meeting back to Vienna, and I believe that is already a achievement of our Lady Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This major event goes far beyond Austria and is also important in many areas for the construction of an international network, which is not only about – that has already been mentioned – promoting the health of children and young people. Many reforms are still necessary in the European area. For example, within the European region, the death of 55 000 boys is associated with alcohol consumption each year. At the age of 15, 60 to 70 percent of young people have smoked at least once. That is why it is very important for our Federal Minister for Smoking to place a great emphasis on health care. ==References====External links== Year of life requires a precautionary examination, but only 13 percent of Austrians do so. Precautionary examination also means – the Federal Minister has announced this in terms of health passports – extending the mother-child passport, extending it in the form of youth, for employed and also for seniors. In this context, the great satisfaction with health care is also to be mentioned. Austria is second in 75 countries. In order to provide these services, many women and men work in health systems: Nurses, nurses and doctors. I think that in this discussion there would also be a thank you for this staff, for their hard work in our hospitals, in our doctor's practice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Precautionary continuation of health policy therefore means: properly reforming a health care system that not only heals but also protects against disease – a health care in which all health partners take a lead in the interests of people, with a health system that is at the pulse of time. Ladies and gentlemen! Health is more than one contribution debate. Health means: because man counts. I would also like to draw your attention to an action at an advanced hour. [[The speaker briefly holds up a poster.]] Perhaps in the next few hours, you can fight the internal pig dog not only with regard to not listening to speaker debates, but also in the cafeteria a little.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17519	Next speaker is Mrs Scharer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17537	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Of course, we are voting in favour of the 53 draft government. The meeting of the Regional Committee. Austria has thus made a significant contribution to this meeting and we congratulate you on the successful organisation. It is important to us, however, that there is a health policy in our own country, which is key to all people in our country. In her reform dialogue programme, Ms. Federal Minister, “causes of increased costs in the general medical field” is the first point of the demographic factor “old society”. The population is healthier, getting older and older, health impairments are increasing especially on the musculature, and especially older people who are Due to your pension reform less money will be available in the future, there is a risk that good medical care will no longer be available. In our older generation – I hear it in a lot of personal discussions – there is great uncertainty that it could be too expensive for the state in retirement, but also in health care. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It must not come to such an extent that, due to their age and social status, people have to purchase inferior medical care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It must continue to be ensured that, for example, eighty-year-olds and older people also have a right to a new knee joint if necessary and not to be completed with the comment “too old”, thus an operation would not be profitable. In your concept, specific measures are missing for older people to close the supply gaps, for example in the area of transitional care, in hospice beds and in palliative medicine. For reasons of cost savings, there must not be a supply deficit in our older generation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A major challenge, however, seems to us to be the labour market policy sector and thus the creation of additional jobs specifically in rural regions. We need a comprehensive reform of the health professions, the creation of a federal professional profile of the old professionals and the free training for all medical and technical services. The SPÖ Health Initiative has submitted applications in this regard. These challenges, the creation of additional employment opportunities, but above all also important training must not only be used for labour market services. Future course training will not be sufficient, and the AMS in particular lacks the appropriate means to offer these training and further training. In June 2000, Mr. Dr. Waneck promised to adapt and complete all health reforms by the end of 2000. Unfortunately, nothing is passing up to this day! Even now, Mrs Minister, one working group after another is being installed or put into perspective on health issues, but the question remains open as it looks with the implementations. At the end of a dry but appropriate saying: If you don't know what's going on, start a working group! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17608	The next speaker is Mr Lichtenegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17626	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Very briefly to my previous speaker: I speak to my grandparents very often, thank God for a very good relationship with them. Of course, they compare the present with the previous times and are very satisfied with the health system on and on itself. They probably did not think about artificial knee joints in the 1950s and 1960s. Of course, not everyone can afford it. The demands on the health system have increased because the health system has simply improved. Now it is about improving the health system by means of a health reform dialogue that we are increasing a wide range of health services, operations and other means they need for a good life in old age. The Health Conference has become an institution in which all relevant health groups participate. The Health Conference is the basis for the reform dialogue on health reform. A key point of the health reform is quality assurance, because, of course, human health needs to be at the heart of the health care system. In this sense, the patient has the highest priority. The highest priority is therefore also the quality of medical devices, in particular – and we are discussing it today – as well. The amended Medical Products Act contributes significantly to ensuring the future of health care, as healthcare means: optimal maintenance and hygienic treatment of medical products, optimal application of medical products and optimal application of medical examination and therapy methods, i.e. the use of a global medical network. This network, of course, also includes the rights of patients, and, at the initiative of State Secretary Waneck, it has also succeeded in finally sealing patient rights with the state of Vorarlberg and the Federation. This could also ensure that patients' rights were safeguarded. This is an important step in the right direction. The Minister mentioned it a few hours ago: It would also, of course, be important for representatives of the city of Vienna to become aware at last so that we could adopt a national patient charter law. Then we could also start, as we discussed in the Committee, to monitor, evaluate any errors, and review this patient charter in terms of quality assurance. How important and right our health policy is in Austria also shows – and this has already been mentioned – that the meeting of the WHO Regional Committee in Vienna was a guest. It was the first time after 30 years. On the other hand, Austria would only come in every 100 years – we have talked about this in committee too. Mr Haidlmayr pointed out in the Committee that, for example, some things such as electric wheelchairs have not been completely resolved in the interests of patients. Since we have a good climate in Austria, but also in the Committee, we have therefore reached a consensus and made a request today to address this problem. I would like to see patients continue to work on health as we have done in the Committee, in the sense of health. – In this sense, I thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17677	Mrs Haidlmayr. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17696	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to keep myself relatively short. I think the fact that the patient charter is now signed by Vorarlberg is good and meaningful. The shortcomings of the patient charter are known. It is planned, at least the Minister has promised, that if all the countries have signed, the demands I made for the last time have been included. For example, the situation of blind people, but also the situation of deaf people in the patient charter, is not regulated. For example, the patient charter does not regulate the use of an assistant service in the hospital. There is no regulation for this. But these are essential points. You know, Mrs Minister, when a disabled person comes to a hospital, everyone is once overwhelmed. You're happy when someone comes with you to take control of the thing when a team is playing together. But that doesn't happen now, and there's no such thing now. The same applies, of course, to children. It is very nice when it says here that there should be parents-child-room, but if the room is not available, then the child will have to be in the hospital without parents. We all know what mental stress this creates for the children. These regulations need to be included in the patient charter. The essential thing in the patient charter is that they must have a certain legal obligation for the patient they do not have now. Now it's just a list of things that should be. But the individual basically has no claim to be able to sue if that is not the case. This has to change quickly. I hope that Salzburg and Vienna will sign the patient charter in the first half of 2004 so that due to the fact that there are nine agreements, they can be changed and improved accordingly. That is my great wish, and I hope that he will come to terms very soon. But I want to come to the Medical Products Act now. I believe that my objection to the committee was very important that he was perceived in the interests of the patients so that no one should be afraid if he has an electronic medicine product, that when he flies into the air – said salopp – he is responsible for this device himself. The Charter now states that no matter what amount they participate in the financing of the product, the cost carriers are very likely to be responsible for quality and maintenance. That's very important. I think it is important that there is something like a pickerl, that you have to do a regular service and that this service is also financed. As a rule, people cannot finance this themselves. I don't want to tell you what an hour will cost when my e-rolli is at the service. I can afford this, but someone who earns 1,000, 1,500 euros per month cannot afford it. Or: If you bring a hearing aid to repair, you will not get under 170 € for that. For many people, this is an asset, so it is important to me that this supply and hence also the financing and quality assurance are ensured. I have been able to clarify this in the Committee, and this is now included in the amendment. That is why we will agree to both the patient charter and the medical device law because they are making improvements. Mrs. Minister! However, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to say that I believe that in the first half of next year – and not at some point – we have to bring about a regulation that will enable people with disabilities to implement the free choice of doctors. That means: “Accessive doctor’s practices” should not be just a project that comes sometime, but must be implemented in the next few years! I know that in your group you are Have opponents – that's quite clear, because many doctor's practices are in old buildings, for example on the third floor, and you can't change them from today to tomorrow, but nobody expects that either. However, with a transitional period of ten years, I think it is very possible to actually create barrier-free medical practices and, Mrs. Minister, the next point, which is important – in hospitals, accessible patient rooms, because these do not exist either. If today a wheelchair driver in the hospital wants to use the toilet or the shower connected in the room, he has had bad luck. He must be glad if he finds a single toilet throughout the hospital to which he can go, with the shower usually does not play anything anyway. But also for blind and deaf people you have to create a control system et cetera. It does not require that the entire hospital is suddenly made 100 percent barrier-free, but essential areas must be barrier-free. And it must also be ensured that at least one sign language interpreter is available in every hospital if necessary, because an understanding possibility for deaf people is given in a hospital as well as never. That this is an additional stress factor for the patient, I think you need not talk about it, we all know. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs. Minister! I would ask you to address these points in the first quarter of 2004. It is then over the European Year of People with Disabilities – many are happy about it – but that does not mean that the situation of disabled people would have improved this year. Although there are small approaches, we have to deal with these still unresolved issues in the next few years. First of all, a decent disability equalization law must be made by the disabled people and not by the staff of the ministry! I hope that you, Mrs Minister, can influence the fact that the working group we have agreed to in the motion for a resolution – in a four-party proposal! – which, however, is no longer available, is re-used. Do you know that this working group is no longer available? She's broken because they said in the ministry: No, we're making a law without you now, and everything that's difficult, we're going to go straight out! – That’s fact, really true, about that there are word protocols. They also said: It is us who we are presenting to the disabled equalization law, something it will be! – That’s true, Mrs. Minister! The persons concerned are no longer represented in this working group, the working group has been dissolved and the work is only done by the officials in the Social Ministry. You probably haven't heard that yet, but that's how it's been since 24. October. You too will have received a letter from the Austrian disability movement, and I would ask you, Mrs Minister, to continue to support us so that the motion for a resolution, as it was then decided, will be implemented to its full extent. The people concerned and the disability movement expect an answer to this letter, namely a law on disability equalization, which is in the interests of disabled people, and not any law, just so that the ministry can produce at random something that we may then have to fight immediately again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17781	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17801	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the High Authority House! I too would like to look at today's report of the fifty-third session of the WHO Regional Committee for Europe, which was held in Vienna. As Mr Steibl has already mentioned, this meeting focused on mental health, but also on the mental health of children and young people. This report states that there are major variations in health expenditure between countries, between 2 and 11 percent of GDP. The following further differences have been identified: Stationary treatment prevails in Eastern European countries. Lack of care conditions as well as the lack of respect for human rights and personal integrity result in a mortality rate of up to 40 percent in some institutions. Conversely, in some Western countries psychologically ill people are neglected in an unacceptable way. In part, differences in life expectancy also have to do with social stress, mental disorders and harmful lifestyles. Depression and suicide, addiction, violence, risky behaviour, risky lifestyles and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality are a key factor in this. In countries in the western part of the region, mental disorders, depressions and helplessness in connection with social change, the threat of job losses and the weakening of social cohesion demand their tribute: 41 million adults drink overly or are alcoholics. 66 percent of them are not treated. The cost of alcoholism is estimated at around 3% of GDP in some countries of the region. A mental disorder occurs in 25 percent of all people throughout life. 58 of 1 000 adults suffer from severe depression. Throughout the European region, this corresponds to 33.4 million people. Between 10 and 20 percent of all children suffer from one or more behavioural disorders. More than 25 percent have mental or behavioral problems. In many countries the suicide rate today exceeds the number of road fatalities. A medium to high suicide rate burdens a country with up to 1.5 percent of its GDP. That is why I am particularly pleased that our health minister Maria Rauch-Kallatin places great importance on mental health in her health promotion goals. The proper handling of stress, whether in professional life, in the context of occupational health promotion, or in the family and leisure time, will take an important role in all of our lives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In particular, inner peace and balance are prerequisites for a healthy life. That this is also a basic need for every person shows the wellness and esoteric boom. People need guidance and answers in their lives. We from the ÖVP with Federal Chancellor Schüssel and Minister of Health Maria Rauch-Kallat offer this orientation and support. The overall psychotherapy contract, as one of the structural objectives, will be an implementation measure in this regard. Austria not only has one of the world's best health systems, but it offers safety to all people in this country: In Austria life is worth living!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17869	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17887	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is gratifying that we can reach an agreement on patient charter with the seventh federal state today – and of course we will be happy to agree, although we would be better if there were a united solution to it, a solution that we have been seeking for a long time, although this was not possible with the government fractions to this day, they may only be concerned with external effects, about deceiving activities. That is why we are going to try to reach a united solution with a resolution today, a solution which is clear, precise and also indictable. The purpose of this application is to give the patient rights: Right to information on the state of health, on the purpose and type of treatment, on risks and possible treatment alternatives, right to collection also a second medical assessment as well as the right to understand the history of the health. Our goal is also to strengthen the privacy and independence of patients. I should like to invite colleagues from the government groups not to see this request through the party glasses. You will be measured by whether your statements are to be understood as they were and will be made. We will therefore see whether you are also interested in improving the health of the Austrians by ÖVP and FPÖ – or whether only selfish group interests and business-making are important to you. In recent decades, Austria has become one of the richest countries in our world under the social democratic leadership, a country in which social security has given the country peace and the people the future. The Austrian health system made an essential contribution to this. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, are now going to weaken or destroy this good system at all. Their new restraints are nothing but a grip on the money of the disadvantaged. They know that the poor unfortunately have a higher health risk than the rich. It was so far in Austria's overall social consensus that the health system is financed in solidarity through contributions and taxes – and that was good! – today, by the government parties, you abuse the sick and the health system for your evil and ideological game for the redistribution of the poor to the rich. For us Social Democrats, health reform means not only solving financing problems, but also: Adjusting the range of services to suit the needs of all human beings, the need for durable treatments and top-level medicine. We Social Democrats are opposed to a multi-class medicine. Our proposal goes in this direction – and your dealings with it, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, will show whether you are also committed to improving patients, strengthening and improving our health system. – I fear, however, that your old policy It could prevent her from doing so.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17960	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17979	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In 1996, the Medical Products Act, which is now being amended, has now been incorporated into the law, which in support of its function contains stable derivatives from human blood. There are also various adjustments in maintenance and hygienic treatment, as well as minor clarifications. At present, more than 400,000 medical devices are on the market. This law ensures a high level of protection of the health of patients and their safety. There are amendments to the section on the monitoring of institutions by the institutions of the Federal Ministry of Health and Women, or by this responsible expert – of course, always with a view to possible potential for risk. The monitoring of health care facilities will be extended, taking into account the potential of the risks, whether they are systematically, systematically or in the event of an event – and not, as before, in certain circumstances, that the law will no longer be respected. Today's amendment refers, among other things, to the need to take appropriate measures for proper maintenance in the case of facilities which hold important medical devices for life-saving or otherwise provide health care. This is also very important and useful for high-risk groups of medical products. Furthermore, the section on confidentiality is extended. This law regulates the handling and handling of data insofar as data on the production, application, testing of medical products et cetera automation can be provided and processed for the implementation of this federal law. Who can now determine whether such a medical product offers a high level of safety for humans and does not pose a threat to life and health? What is the place where a manufacturer or importer can contact if it brings a new device or medical product to the European or Austrian market? – These bodies are, for example, the TÜV or the medical technology test site, which is closely linked to the Technical University of Graz. I myself studied at the Institute of Electrical and Biomedical Technology in Graz – and from this institute, during my study period, this medical technology test site has developed. The advantage of this test institute is that the entire know-how of science and research, the state of the knowledge of TU Graz, and also the scientists and researchers of the Institute of Biomedical Technology are available. This test site is a state-accredited European testing body for medical devices, laboratory equipment, software and so on. According to this legislation, this is a notified body, a Notified Body, which has a complete quality assurance system for test and certification bodies. It is also about granting the CE sign. This then depends again on conformity classes, which are divided according to risk potential. – The red light here at the speaker's desk shines again. Ladies and gentlemen! There are many tasks ahead of us in health policy. Mrs Bundesminister Maria Rauch-Kallathat started a future reform dialogue last Monday with the Health Conference. Our task as a politician is to create the best conditions and conditions for health, to force measures for quality assurance, and to minimise risks and risks. And the present federal law will also contribute to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18039	The next speaker was Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18057	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Bundesminister, we too have welcomed the fact that the fifty-third meeting of the Regional Committee for Europe of the WHO in Austria took place, but yet I do not fully understand your dealings with this House. This Agreement shall be concluded on 31 December of this year. It was signed in Copenhagen on 4 March 2003 and signed in Vienna on 4 March 2003. June of this year. It would have been a proper way of dealing with the House if the decisions we are taking here today – we agree, even if this is retroactive, precisely because we welcome it in principle – had already been made known to the House before this meeting and could indeed have been discussed here in the House before. I would therefore ask that in the future decisions that are necessary can be taken, not in retrospect, but in advance here in this House. [[Federal Minister of Smoking Call: That is where the Health Committee has to meet!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I know the story with the day of the committees. I announced seven dates for the Committee – two ministers and one minister – but it was not possible to get one of the members of the committee on one of these seven dates. I would like to tell you this already, because I would like to say this critically about how this Federal Government is dealing with the House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, you have also explained today the reduction in the cost of the cure, and I do not want to say here that I congratulate all those who have actively negotiated on this result. We have long called for this and are very glad that a success has been achieved here, because that is the right way in the right direction. But, Mrs. Federal Minister, a subject has not been removed: You mentioned in the Committee during the general debate that you could imagine that tobacco tax is being raised in a blatant way in order to help finance health care. Thankfully, you have also said to me that 5,5 percent of GDP, this value you want to cover the health costs by 2010, as you have announced, is not a dogma for you. These are words I very much welcome, but I still wonder: How will this self-retaining rule look in the future? Mr Kaipel referred briefly to this issue and referred to the problem of self-preservation. The second question I ask myself is: How should an administrative body propose these restraints to us if it is not even guaranteed that it itself, the main association, is in conformity with the constitution at all, or that it is not in conformity with the constitution at that time? – That is to say, it would be the first problem to solve that at least once the main association should be placed on constitutional legs so as to have legal certainty that what is presented to the House is also constitutional and constitutional. One more point to the ambulance fee. Mrs. Minister! We have criticized that the ambulance fee only at 1. ==References====External links== You know that there are still charges from the second, third and fourth quarters of 2002 and from the first quarter of 2003. I have seen in the government template that we have received today – obviously you have learned there, though late – that in these cases you will apparently be removed from a collection, which I very much welcome. I would have liked only for the patients, for the administration, for all of us, that this awareness would have been much earlier and not only with so long delay, with so much effort for the administration and so much excitement for patients. Last point, Mrs Minister: It is, I believe, already a novity that we have two assessment procedures on the same matter of law and today we find here a government template which is divided into two parts. Obviously, due to the new division of competence, this Federal Government is not able to present us with a uniform approach to a single legislative matter, which, of course, does not facilitate the review process if one has different templates on the same subject, partly different content on the same section. I think it does not contribute to the transparency of legislation and to perceptibility on the part of the population if you continue to work in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18106	The next speaker was Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18124	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This novel to the Medical Products Act has been dealt with comprehensively by my previous speakers. I would just like to say that I too welcome this amendment tabled by Mrs Haidlmayr, which will ensure that, when medical devices are partially financed by social security, the maintenance costs will also be borne by them. In order to ensure patient rights, the so-called patient charter. Mr Grünewald also spoke about this and said that it is, of course, a matter of having the health system available to all people in the same quality. I would perhaps like to make a comment on Mrs Scharer, who said that the Federal Government or the Minister for Foreign Affairs is being insecured by the elderly: With such speeches as you have given them here, ladies and gentlemen, you are insecure the elderly people, so that they no longer see it as a matter of course that they can access and have access to all the services provided by the health care system in Austria up to the old age. The Federal Minister wants full access to the services of modern medicine for all, which is why a health reform must be carried out to ensure that these services are accessible to all Austrians in the future in the same way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Of course, it is a question of financialability, and, as has been noted by honourable Members Green Forest, research, treatment and care must play a role here. Not only money, but also staff is very important in this context. As far as this patient charter is concerned, the eighth federal state could at least be won to make this agreement with the Federation. That's the right way to a federally uniform patient charter! – The seventh, sorry, you're right! [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] Salzburg would be the eighth that is still in negotiations, but wherever it is to be noticed that a decision will be taken very soon. Unfortunately, the ninth federal state, Vienna, is still outstanding. When it comes to the competences of the federal states and the responsibility for their patients in their own federal state, if it is necessary to take significant quality steps, it must also happen in Vienna! Mr Grünewald referred to the country regulations and said that they were very obsolete standards. But not even these standards could really be met in Lainz! It is therefore welcome that this patient charter can be concluded in this way in all federal states. I would like to congratulate Mrs Bundesminister, who has set herself goals in this health reform, which she has formulated and which she will enforce. There are already some results, especially if I am thinking of the package of medicinal products already under negotiation, which will reduce the exploding costs and allow structural measures to be put in place at the same time. Health is not a random product, but health is something that is particularly serious to appreciate sick people who have to get the achievements of modern medicine and also the necessary mental motivation. However, all people need to be alerted to self-responsibility in dealing with health, for everyone can contribute to health. This is quite in the sense of the “iSch” campaign that Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat has launched.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18197	The next speaker was Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18215	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The government paper on the Medical Products Act to be dealt with today includes important concerns for me, such as the adjustments in the maintenance and hygienic treatment of medical products. It is therefore important because it serves to protect patients and ensures this protection. It also deals with the development of outsourcing, where the entire performance of health care facilities will be more taken into account in future. However, due to the dynamic development in this area and the many new tasks, this also requires monitoring of all health facilities, combined with novel medical product safety and systematic and sample-like external surveillance concepts and routine monitoring. That is why the SPÖ will also agree with both the government's proposal and the amendment proposal. But what bothered me during the whole preparation: As important as these regulations are, I am also surprised by the opinion of the medical board, which has spoken out against systematic and sample-like monitoring, although it is for the benefit of the patients. And I don't think that can matter to the doctors. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Did she get through?]] – No, but that bothered me, because I wonder: Why is the doctor's chamber afraid of such routine surveillance, if it always requires, anyway always comply with all the provisions? Who is she afraid of and what? Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, our Austrian health system is one of the most effective, economic, but also distribution-politically fairest in the world. And you all know, just as I do, that this good health system is highly acceptable to the population and highly praised, and this is also confirmed by the WHO and the European Commission. That is why it is essential for me, and I really want to write this to the responsible members of the government and you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ: Health care is a public concern and not a private concern. And I underline what Mrs Rosenkranz said this afternoon, namely that regardless of social status, everyone must have the same access to our system. I'm just saying: Your word in God's ear, because reality looks different for me. In fact, if I listen to the statements made by some of the ÖVP Vasalls, such as Mr Gleitsmann, as former president of the main association, as the health system looks like in the future, I will be afraid and afraid. On behalf of the Minister, the said person knows nothing better than to say about the introduction of additional self retention: It must be the same as with the pensions. If you also get something private, you will also get more services accordingly. If you have an additional insurance, you can calm down – if you don't, we don't know how it goes on! Obviously, such persons do not care about the insured and their health, for otherwise one cannot come up with such risky ideas. How should a part-time worker in trade afford additional self-retainers? You have already removed the last cents from the pockets of these insured persons with your missing economic and social policy. It cannot be a health policy if the sick are burdened unilaterally! And when in the previous week – and I am even more concerned about this – the President-in-Office says: What else do we need compulsory insurance in Austria? It's supposed to assure everyone where and how he wants! I have to say that this path has once again shown the chaos of the last three and a half years of this federal government. The rights don't know what the left hand wants. When Mr Scheuch said this afternoon: We work for this country!, then I say: Work's not the same as work! There are on one side pros and on the other side Prusher. After your work in the coalition in the last three years only consisted of making Husch-Fuch, I tell you: Let the work work be better, because it has not been reformed until now, but it has been broken down everything that was really good. This is part of the Pushertum area, which is not a policy that people in our country have earned!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18254	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18272	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As has already been announced many times, we are voting today on a change to the Medical Products Act. The main issue here is the implementation of EU directives and the application of new innovations and trends in research and development in the field of medical devices. However, I would also like to use this opportunity to underline the importance and the positive nature of this law. There are 500 000 medical devices, the bandwidth ranges from partly harmless to high-risk devices such as computer tomographs, and of course all have to meet a certain standard and a certain quality. The more risky the device, the more stringent the authorisation procedure and the review. Therefore, we must strive to keep our laws up-to-date and, so to speak, up-to-date. We must offer patients and users the highest possible protection and safety, ladies and gentlemen. As an employee of the Red Cross, I know the Medical Products Act from the point of view of the user. We have very many such products in use, and my experience confirms to me the need to create a legal framework. Such a medical product in the area of the Red Cross is, for example, the defibrillator. It is of course also subject to the strict quality criteria and regulations of the Medical Products Act. This innovation includes, among other things, adaptations to maintenance and the necessary conditions for the public provision of defibrillators. I suppose everyone or at least those who are still in the plenary room knows the project of the Red Cross. Together with numerous partners, it is tried to establish the “defi” more and more in the public sector and in businesses. At this point, I have to express great praise to the companies and institutions that do not have a legal obligation to install a “defi” in their buildings. Currently, some 1 050 devices have been ordered throughout Austria and 800 have already been installed. Since July 2001, we in Parliament have also placed one at the fire station, which is very positive to mention. Since the beginning of the year, 230 devices in companies such as IKEA, BP, VA-Tech have been able to be installed in Upper Austria alone. In addition to public places such as municipal offices, district headquarters, banks, schools, indoor baths, the Altenheime and even judicial institutions were also involved in the project. In particular, it is important to provide appropriate training for staff and citizens, most of whom are carried out by the Red Cross. Austria has a remarkable global pioneering role here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, even more important are the success figures of this project, this so-called lay-defis. This does not include all those in the rescue services. This so-called lay-defi was already in use 28 times in Austria, and of the 13 times where the device actually became active, ten people survived. Look. The chance of survival at such a circulatory downturn has so far been around 10 percent. If you expect about 10,000 such cases in Austria every year, this is a very convincing number. In Upper Austria, we recently had the gratifying case that a patient revitalized by the “defi” could leave the hospital after two days. These figures, ladies and gentlemen, speak for themselves and support the importance of this project and support from the legislator. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, as a representative of the Red Cross, I would like to say: Perhaps we can also discuss a regulation in terms of defibrillator: Why should a “defi” not be mandatory from a certain size of operation or for public buildings, as is the case with certain establishments, where one or more first-aids are required by law? I ask you to reconsider this, and for this novel for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18338	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18357	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said, we will agree with the proposals, including the patient charter. These are steps in the right direction. However, I must say right at the beginning of my remarks that this Federal Government has also taken a lot of steps in the wrong direction. This is a particular concern to me, and I would therefore like to give two examples: the introduction of new self-maintainment and, on the other hand, the privatisation of health. In this respect, we were also criticised by the WHO in particular. WHO confirmed the negative impact on the health system in connection with privatisation and the introduction of self-maintainment. This is also perfectly clear, because it simply asks those persons who are sick to check out, and because self retention overall worsens the health situation in a country. That is not really appropriate, I believe, especially in Austria, which is still a very rich country. The fact is that neither privatisation nor the introduction of self-maintainment will or have brought about an increase in efficiency in the health system. Only and alone will show that people will go less to the doctor. That too, I mean, is something we don't want. It seems important in this context to me to point out that the chances of staying healthy are also linked to the social position in Austria and to the level of income. It is therefore very important to me to point out that health care and the concerns about the health situation in Austria are the responsibility of the public authorities and not private matters of the individual citizen or of the individual citizen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In our opinion, it is quite simply important and necessary that all people have the same fair access to basic care, but also, of course, to top medical care. It cannot be the case that the financial possibilities decide on which health services are to be provided. In the case of medical visits and visits, they may not or may not be paid. It is also an important and burning problem for me in connection with children and young people. Experts say that 80 percent of the medicines used in this area are not to be used in pediatrics because they have been tested mainly in adults. In my opinion, children and young people must also have the same opportunities and opportunities in connection with safe and adequate drug therapy. Another point, also necessary and crucial: More needs to be done for those who work in health care. I would point out that it is necessary that home workers receive a comprehensive training, but that they are also better protected by labour law and social law. And most importantly, because women are mainly active here, the fact is that, in the context of the care profession, there must finally be a uniform training system across the country and that the care professions are also recognised in the federal states. I think there is still a lot to be done in the health sector, and I hope that we can make good common decisions at the next meetings of the Health Committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18418	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Winkler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18436	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The agreement to ensure patient rights, namely the patient charter, agreed between the federal government and the state of Vorarlberg in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act and adopted by the National Council today, represents another important step towards improving patient rights and is therefore again an essential element for an even better Austrian health system. After the Federal State of Carinthia – and I may mention this with some pride – in 1999 the first federal state has completed this patient charter, in recent years bilateral degrees with the federal states of Burgenland, Upper Austria, Lower Austria and Styria followed. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that The contents of this patient charter all know, but because of the importance, I still allow myself to point out a few points and recall the content. I consider it particularly important that human beings are at the centre of this Charter as a patient, because the Charter clearly defines the personality rights of the patient. I would like to stress this because, in the discussion about our health system, it has often been a question of: How much can be saved?, so only about money and economy was discussed, but very often too little attention has been paid to the patient himself. The patient charter makes it clear, among other things, that the patient receives the best possible treatment, that his privacy is protected, and that he has a right to self-determination and information. The patient charter also points out that treatment, diagnostics and care have to be carried out according to the state of the sciences and the the point of the best possible pain therapy – that has already been mentioned today – is particularly important. Also important is Section 3 of the Charter, which states that patients have a right to respect for dignity and integrity. This right to dignity and integrity includes the fact that data from patients are subject to secrecy, that patients can receive visits or also reject religious support or that they can help trusted persons. It is also particularly important that the patient's Charter provides comprehensive information on diagnostics and types of treatment. This must be done in such a way that the well-being of patients is not at risk. The Enlightenment should take place gentlely. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Patients should also be treated only with their consent. Furthermore, it is explicitly stated that no one should be used for research and education without his explicit consent. This means that no experiments can be performed with patients without consent. Finally, I should like to draw attention briefly to Article 24 of the Charter, which contains a special provision for children. In concrete terms, this article states that, in the event of a delay in life, children's treatment is also carried out against the declared will of the rightholder, or otherwise the court's approval is to be sought. Don't let me mention that the spirit of the Charter must also be consciously lived. Thus, acting for patient interests through patient representations is also an essential and important component. I am glad that these institutions already exist in all the federal states. The annual increase in the number of concerns or examinations of complaints shows that these bodies are also adopted. Of course, I would like to add a few more things to this, but I would just like to mention in the near future that it is of particular importance to develop the health system accordingly, for which the Minister of the Federal Government is particularly committed and committed. Thank you for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, I may address a proverb by Arthur Schopenhauer, although at the beginning it is not quite what is in my self-understanding: “Health is not all, but everything is nothing without health!”
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18523	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Johann Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18544	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker placed a package of “CM3 Alginate” and a pack of “Strobby” on the speaker’s console.]] As a consumer, I would like to deal with the Medical Products Act, directives on the one hand, and on the other hand with the problems that exist both for consumers and for patients. This change of law makes it clear that derivatives from human blood are medical devices. But I do not want to start a delimitation discussion now: Are medical devices with human blood medical devices or medicines? Mrs Federal Minister, we know that in Europe such a regulation is necessary. I can remind you that in Italy, in Trent, a criminal procedure is under way against Austrian blood plasma manufacturers who have not complied with these European provisions and where the most serious health damage of Italian patients has subsequently occurred. – That is why we welcome this regulation. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat, on behalf of my group, for the dedicated officials of your department who have to comply with the Medical Products Act. The answer to a question, which has recently been confirmed in the Health Committee, shows that the number of officials who have to comply with this difficult law is only about one third of the workforce, as is the case with a comparable European State. I appreciate these officials, and I would ask you, Madam Minister of Smoking, to express our thanks to them for their dedicated work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We also discussed at the last meeting of the Health Committee that four regulations will be adopted in the course of this new law. Mrs Bundesminister, you have promised our group that these regulations will be delivered to us. We have hoped that we already have these draft regulations in this debate today. Unfortunately, however, you did not provide them to us. I would therefore ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to send us these later. However, the main problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have medical devices on the market here in Austria that are not controlled. There is also a need for a new European regulation, but there is a food supplement which has been certified as a medical product and is sold in this way: medical regulations do not apply, food provisions do not apply. [[the speaker holds the pack “Strobby” in height]] And there is another product, also certified as a medical product, not controlled by anyone; a similar product has already led to several deaths. [[the speaker now keeps the package “CM3 Alginate” in height]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Our group supports your officials in Brussels, who insist on a regulation in this regard. “Strobby” for example is a medicine in England, a medical product in Lower Saxony – and no one in Austria knows what effects such products actually have. Therefore: We need a new regulation, not only in Austria, but throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18634	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18653	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is very gratifying that the federal government and the Land – this time it is Vorarlberg – makes a declaration of will over competence, in which they are committed to safeguarding patient rights. - Yes, Mr Scheuch, when I say patient inside, of course the patient is in common. The right to the best possible health care for the individual corresponds to the obligation of the state community to make such a provision, for all – and not only for those who can afford it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Sick people with general restraints, charges and so on, violate this duty – and are therefore categorically opposed! That is, with every measure in this direction, this black and blue federal government is moving away from the declaration of will which it is issuing here and today. One comfort, however, is that, thanks to a functioning legal opinion, a large part of these measures – as has been seen, for example, on the basis of accident pension taxation or on the basis of ambulance charges – are not of long duration. But this also proves, Mrs Minister, another fact: that this Federal Government is obviously acting faster than she is able to think. And this is particularly worrying, especially when it comes to the highest and most sensitive good we have, namely health. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] An optimal health care is a public concern – and not a private matter, as some of you seem to imagine. In a functioning health system, fair and equal access to prevention measures, basic care and top-level medicine, regardless of income and age, must be preserved. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have still noticed a point in the patient charter which deserves to be discussed more closely, namely the question of liability for treatment damage. These are sometimes the most complicated cases facing one in practice, because because of the complexity of physical processes it is often almost impossible to prove that a behavior was inherent in a health damage. The proof of causality is the most serious to lead evidence at all, especially in medical cases and can only be solved, if at all, with a huge offer of medical experts. And then comes the evidence of guilt, which is not much easier to carry either. Therefore, it is all the more important that there be extrajudicial possibilities for damaged patients to receive rapid and unbureaucratic damages. Although in recent years occupiers have been set up at medical chambers and patient attorneys, these are largely in the legal-free area, because there are only very vague procedural regulations. There is certainly the risk that the injured will be deducted from the actual amounts of compensation because they fear the costs and risks of a legal course. In order to cope with the difficulties already raised in the event of treatment damage, we should also in Austria give more thought to a comprehensive re-regulation of medical liability. Harmful and potentially liable persons would certainly be most useful with a stronger emphasis on the principle of insurance, as it is part of the SPÖ Health Initiative, which Mr Lackner has recently presented. This would also be the case for patients Charta from the federal side with life, because: Whoever is right, let him come to his right quickly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18749	Mr Herzegovina is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18767	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! In this debate today, there was a lot of talk about the drug package, about cost reduction measures, of generics, and Mrs Rauch-Kallat said today at her press conference: “All of them have briefly cheered up, squeaked – and gnashed with their teeth.” – All, I ask, ladies and gentlemen – or have individuals smiled and rubbed their hands? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: “Gejault” is an expression that we do not use here!]] What does that look like? – In the course of the negotiations, it is said in the “standard”, the pharmacists abandoned 33 million, the wholesaler to about 20 million, and the industry grants 40 million off of its steady growth. – Industry is granting a discount from the increase, and in the case of “sacrifice” and so on, there are certain thoughts. And, as a follow-up, a letter-reader writes in the “Standard” that one can assume that these measures will be particularly useful to Bartenstein’s company. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Shame!]] In 1995, Dr. Bartenstein was the sole owner of the Bartenstein Society, who shares in the Lannacher medicinal products as well as in Genericon – of course not today, all of this has a trustee, a certain woman Dr. Ilse Bartenstein. Businesses are being done with university clinics, with the Heeres-Materials Office. The growth of this company is quite stunning, Mr. Drinkl! Genericon, for example, has an increase of 35.8 percent, from 2002 alone to the first quarter 2003. Ladies and gentlemen! It must be very legitimate to ask the question: How does the private property of an Austrian Minister of Economic Affairs develop through drug reforms? [[Abg. Grandruck: Shame!]] Is there perhaps, Mr Großruck – that should interest you as the top controller of the ÖVP – problematic interfaces if, for example, the Lannach works or generic public contracts are received? [[Abg. Grandruck: Shame!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It would also be interesting to know whether there are international examples of the international presence of an economic minister who earns and benefits from hundreds of millions of euros by means of measures by its own government. Ladies and gentlemen! I think these questions are legitimate and will also ask them in parliamentary questions, because the government is burdening the socially weak, burdening the weak in the social and health sectors, while the private property of a minister is increasing to the immeasurable. [[Abg. Großruck: Go back to Russia!]] And I can assure you that hundreds of thousands of unemployed people will be very interested in how the Minister for Labour and his wealth is doing. And we will be in line with this interest with parliamentary questions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18891	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I would ask you to take your seat, because we are going to vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We first come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Medical Products Act. Mr Rasinger, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Haidlmayr, Mr Lacner, Mr President, have tabled an amendment on paragraph 24 of the draft law. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law in 236 of the Supplements, together with the title and receipt of the amendment tabled by Mr Rasinger, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Haidlmayr, Mr Lackner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I am looking for a sign in this regard. – This is accepted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is also unanimous. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Health Committee to grant approval in 201 of the Supplements to the Agreement on the Enforcement of Patient Rights (Patent Charter) in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitution Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, we come to the vote on the request of the Health Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the World Health Organization on the Institutions and Services and the legal status granted to the Organisation on the occasion of the holding of the fifty-third meeting of the Regional Committee for Europe from 8 to 11 October. In September 2003 in Vienna, the approval was granted in 132 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. 6. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the Government template (217 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on Higher Education (Fachhochschule-Studengesetz) (263 d.b.) 7. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the Government Template (197 d.a._Other Organiser Protocol on the further continuation of the Austrian-Slovakia Action, Science and Education Cooperation (264 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18980	We now come to points 6 and 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Broukal spoke as the first speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19004	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The history of the technical universities is a success story – with small limitations, but still. But in recent times, they have also been saved. We will therefore, despite some improvements that we have recognised, reject the amendment proposed by the Government of the University of Applied Sciences Act. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Damage!]] Let me give you a brief list of our reasons. First: We believe that the need is far greater than the very moderate increase in the number of study places you will allow in the next few years. We call for an extension of 10,000 new places of study by 2008. We agree, Austria needs more academics. And the colleges can and should contribute more than according to your plans. Second reason for our rejection: It makes sense to bring more women and men to colleges than the economy needs now and today. Those who have good academic education also find new employment in other fields of work. There are interesting examples here, for example from graduates of tourism studies, which have been able to take a foothold with their knowledge of business economics in other professions outside tourism – academically. Third reason for our rejection: In our view, it makes no sense to allow only a regional demand coverage at the technical universities in the future. It makes sense, for example, to offer a training at a good university in Lower Austria, which is requested in Vienna or Upper Austria or in Styria. We see fourthly too little promotion of access without Matura. After the founding of the first technical universities, there were consistently encouraging numbers, 11 percent of the first high school students came to the university with the training certificate or the Master's exam. Since then, however, this percentage has been falling continuously, we are now at 7 percent, i.e. a decrease of 40 percent from above. We miss counter-control measures. Fifth, you open a bottle The technical universities now have about 10 percent of the students of the universities. It would be time to present a concept that the universities, the colleges, the academies in that place in the education system, where they can best fulfil their task. And it would be time to end the useless competition between the colleges and the university. Sixth – and this is our Ceterum Censeo –: For the first time, they also specify tuition fees at the universities. That's what we're against! We think you've moved a little in your frame. We demand more movement. We do not agree with the few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19042	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19060	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I can add to Mr Broukal's statement. His thesis that there is a much greater need for vocational colleges is only conditional. At some vocational colleges, not all places of study are occupied because demand is below supply. Secondly, Atypical access continues to be supported and sought and supported by the government. Please note that the professional maturity test results in young men and women attending this atypical access to other higher education courses. I would like to inform you of a very encouraging statistics which I have found published by ÖSTAT today and according to which the number of academics has increased by 50 percent over the last ten years. Younger women already have better education than old men. This increase is even 54 percent, with the involvement of the school-related educational institutions, and more than 71%. And the overall academic rate – from the start-up to the end of the career – is currently 8 percent, with the 30-34-year-olds being 11.6 percent, with women alone 12.5 percent. All in all, then, these are encouraging developments that we want to further promote with today's novelle. The aim of this new law is to establish academic degrees for subjects' groups today. This will also provide the basis for additional tests so that mature test certificates can be made equivalent. Similarly, the basis for the implementation of double diploma programmes is to be established to create a legal authorisation to collect study contributions at a limited level – legal empowerment and not mandatory introduction – and the basis for the corresponding designation for high school staff, also in line with the development at universities. It will also enable the introduction of quality management as well as the creation of a competence of the High School Council for recommendations on sites and courses. A further improvement will be achieved with an amendment. It is a pity that the Committee's initial positive attitude could not also be transferred to plenary. I will explain this amendment in the key points. It is a request by Dr Bleckmann, Dr. Brinek, for the report of the Committee on Science and Research on the Government template 217 of the Supplements. In view of the extent of this request, I ask the President, pursuant to Article 53 of the Rules of Procedure, to distribute it to the Members. As far as I know, this has already happened. I would ask the Members to take account of the amendment in the version which I am now presenting with editorial corrections. According to this editorial correction, point 2 must read as follows: ‘The following Z 9a is inserted after Z 9 of the report:’, instead of ‘The following Z 10a is inserted after Z 10 of the report:’; Then again: “9a” instead of “10a” – that was an editorial accident. We jumped a number too far, it's about numbering. I would like to tell you what we want to achieve with this amendment: Professional universities should also have the opportunity in future to offer courses for further education similar to universities. The vocational colleges are based on their vocational training on regular continuing vocational training. That is why I am twice sorry if the opposition says that it cannot accept this amendment. Perhaps you will still be moved to do so – I look, above all, towards Mr Grünewald – to agree to this training permit in some way. The proposed regulation also provides the necessary quality protection – if you want to. There is the possibility that, in the absence of sufficient quality proof, the College of Applied Sciences may prohibit it within three months. We believe that the standard must be comparable to that of other providers, especially in areas of courses where academic degrees and designations are awarded. We know from the Committee that the issue of further education, certainly also regarding accreditation and quality assurance, needs to be further pursued and evaluated. I hope that we will have a good, broad range of training opportunities in the post-secondary and tertiary fields. The fact that we have taken a step further with this innovation is likely to be obvious. I am also of the opinion that, in terms of technical colleges, we can talk about a very pleasing model, of a success model, that we continue this success story with the change in the direction of continuing education and increasing the academic rate and increasing the willingness to learn, and thus make high-quality, young education opportunities, such as the technical universities, the private universities – the Danube universities –, together with the classical, established university offerings and the high-school institutions, making them a natural educational offer in the post-secondary and tertiary fields, so that the Lisbon goals can be achieved and thus come to the floor space we are looking for. We're already in the Bronze area. Gold is our goal. Today's decision is a step closer to this goal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19128	I announce that the request from Mr Dr. Brinek, Mag, just presented in his key points. Dr. Bleckmann, colleagues in writing, has been handed over and is also given sufficient support. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. It is also printed in the Stenographic Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19235	Mr Grünewald spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19253	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We have not made it easy to reject this law. I will give you the reasons for this. If you say that colleges are a success story, I can even assist you in this case, they are! It has even been presented to the Committee with an exceptionally good high-school report, which, like a few other reports, is instructive, which can be discussed and shows the very objective plus and minus, the missing and already done differentiated. But what we are missing is that there is actually no general and overall plan in the field of tertiary education, nor any strategies; that the vote – no, that's true, that's what others say, not just me! [[Interlocutory calls by Dr. Brinek and Dr. Wolfmayr]] [[Abg. Prince: Do you always believe what others say?]] – between universities and colleges is not yet optimal and – whatever you see and confirmed in the report – that the number of atypical entrances, i.e. without usual matura, but via a course or other career-related or vocational entrances, has fallen in recent years. [[Abg. Zweytick: That's logical! That's understandable, isn't it?]] It's understandable, but nobody wanted it. The technical universities should be open to various entrances and not necessarily presuppose the matura. That's it. They also wanted to give professionals an interest in continuing training, the opportunity to get in there and qualify. [[Abg. Zweytick: You want a qualified training, don't you?]] . I want qualified training, but that does not mean that someone who has completed a teaching has several years of vocational training. If you want to say something like that publicly, please publish it! – I don't think you would do well. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No! The professional maturity test is...!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Positively, the proportion of women has been increased – something has been done! But there are relatively few vocational courses. Also, if you look at research activities, they will not be used as much as the government and others, including the universities, would wish. What is also very positive in the law is the desire for more quality management, the design of valid and comprehensible evaluation instruments. Further positive was the statement that it will be necessary to open up the universities to health professionals in the future. In the field of medical-technical services, i.e. ergotherapists, logoians, orthopists, physiotherapists, radiological-technical services, medical-technical analysts have to pick up a lot, the proportion of women in this area is 90 percent. These do not encounter a glass ceiling, but rather a concrete ceiling of their career, have international difficulties, with their training in Austria, what the The duration of the study and also the number of hours even higher than in the higher education courses have reached, at least has a high-school character, and are actually discriminated against internationally. In the interests of these women, but also in the interests of quality assurance, there should be something to be done. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If the amendment, which means that courses can also be offered by professional universities, as was possible only universities so far, can be coordinated separately, we would at least agree. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] – It is also almost a premiere for me, Mrs. Brinek, but I am very pleased. A punctual agreement would be possible in many things, but we also say that this law offers opportunities to collect tuition fees on the silver tablet, so to speak, also those locations and those countries which have so far been excluded from it. And they will need to introduce tuition fees because the budgets are not as expansive as the rates of newly-initiated college students. That is to say, the expansion is actually not 100% secured by the budget. Furthermore, the participation, participation of students and teachers and research staff in decisions – as was once the case at the university, now hardly any more – has been included in an earlier draft, we can't approve of that. And thirdly, With regard to the location issues, the University of Applied Sciences Council has very reasonable concepts for consolidating high-school locations by trying to reduce the diversification of individual courses in more and more deserts or dry areas. It is, I think, good when colleges stand not only at university locations but also in the regions. But they need a certain environment, they need several courses so that the character of a study location can be clearly underlined, research conducted and so on. Hiebei has only a consultative character, and the ministry will have difficulty fighting against the wishes of your clients of district leaders, national leaders, mayors and others, even if you like to do so from the head. You've seen, a fragmented landscape is not good. We agree with the amendment, the rest of it is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19357	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Mr Achleitner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19375	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I think it's almost great that the gentlemen of the opposition, who actually always do everything the government does, do bad, admit that the development of the technical college reflects a success course. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: My God!]] But if you read the numbers in the last high school report that you have, then you can't do any different. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: Who did the technical colleges...?]] For example, this report states that in 2003/2004, 7 000 beginners are available, that the expansion of the courses has reached a level of 136 degree programmes and that there are a whole range of, more than 37 courses, which are also available for vocational training. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Since the Black and Blue Government is in office, the expansion of the courses has been increased by 2.5. What makes me particularly happy is that the number of female students is increasing steadily: While in 1994, there were still 25 percent female students at the colleges, the figure is now over 36 percent. The number of young women in the field of technology is particularly high, from 2.1 per cent to more than 21 per cent, i.e. more than 10 per cent. This means that the measures the government has taken to motivate young women for non-typical occupations are quite obvious, and now the girls also remember that there are not only traditional professions. But the success is not self-evident. The special funding programme “600 plus” far exceeded the planning size of the courses. Also for the year 2003 there are now € 2 million more. This means that € 107 million is allocated to the technical colleges in the budget. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Broukal, you said first that this was too little money. – Just in 2004, €10 million will be made available in addition to the budget already decided, making available €117 million to technical colleges! A special feature of the technical universities is the practical training at higher education level and that the offers are covered by the needs in the economy. However, this also means to all graduates that a seamless transition to the economy is possible after completion. However, this should also mean that non-indistinct studies can be increased or introduced, that it must not be that quantity stands before quality. It is important that demand and acceptance are ensured. In his last report, the University Council also writes that it is primarily important that the quantitative growth achieved so far is safeguarded by quality. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The quality is ensured by an excellent evaluation system, which provides both external and internal evaluations, and in addition institutionally, in terms of the management and management of technical universities, as well as study-related evaluations, i.e. with regard to the field of work and curriculum. This dynamic development in the technical universities is taken into account in this new University of Applied Sciences Law Novelle, by making adjustments to the university sector and establishing a new quality management system. In addition, the possibility of continuing training courses is intended to correspond to the need for changes in the profession. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I am really sorry that you cannot vote in an additional innovation in a field of technical colleges, a need-based, vocational and quality education opportunity, an educational policy with which the government is sure to move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19444	Mrs Gehrer, Federal Minister, has been reported from the government bank. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19462	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have listened very carefully to the speakers of the political groups. I am grateful for the fact that everyone has found that the colleges are a success story – the technical colleges, launched by Erhard Busek in 1993/1994, continued by Minister Scholten, continued by Minister One, where an expansion took place. In 2000, I took over the expertise for this. There was further expansion, one could build on a good common basis. In 2000/2001 the technical universities had 67 courses and 11 700 students. Today, through the “600 plus” programme, we have 136 courses and around 21,000 students. I am also concerned about what you wish for, what you have called for, and will be taken into account to a great extent in many areas. We're working on professional maturity exams. 7,000 young people are preparing for the professional maturity test, 580 people have taken the professional maturity test in 2002. We are concerned that young people then accept further education opportunities. We are also very important to the job-related offers. A third of the current programmes, i.e. a third of the 136 courses are work-related, and a quarter of the university students are in these vocational courses. I believe that we have the same objectives, and I therefore do not understand why you do not give your consent to a good law, which was also carried out by you at the time, and are not prepared to work with us on the high-school development plan III, which will contain very important objectives. The High School Development Plan III is planned for the academic years 2005/2006 to 2009/2010. The contents are: the proposal for quantitative expansion. If you say, 10,000 more – now we are at 21,000 – then we are very fast at 30,000. If the health professions are added, we will be over 30,000. It cannot therefore be a problem to agree on a common goal. Further: The sustainable development of applied research and development, the increased internationalisation, the introduction of cross-regional demand and acceptance surveys – this is a concern for us; there are already many courses that are training for a much larger and wider area than for their own country – the expansion of international competitiveness by increasing the number of baccalaureat courses, the increase in the number of graduates from professional courses, the increase in the proportion of women, especially in technical degree programmes. We will keep all the wishes in the High School Development Plan III and we will be pleased if we can work together on these objectives, if we can also expect your support. On the other hand, we also see that, after such an intensive phase of growth, a certain consolidation is necessary, that we have to ask ourselves: Where do you have synergies? Where may there be double-tracks? and that we have to ask ourselves: Are all courses still to be accepted accordingly? At the 2002/2003 study year, we see that 30 percent of all studies had fewer beginners than were approved by the University of Applied Sciences Council. That means we have to consider: Are these resources still properly set up, even forward-looking, or should we use these resources better for other offers? – I think we need to take the time for the consolidation phase. I therefore believe that we must provide for the new high school development plan in the field of higher education, with a new increase in the number of students, with the necessary budget security, but that we must build on a solid basis, that we must wait for the evaluations now and that we must say: In the future, quality will continue to go before quantity in the field of higher education, so that the technical colleges will also respect the standard they have achieved, and thus the graduates of the vocational colleges will have such good opportunities in the future for employment opportunities from the economy and from the various fields. I would therefore be very pleased, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if you could get through to give your consent to this forward-looking law.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19524	The next speaker was Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19542	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In spite of this amendment, the current amendment to the University of Applied Sciences Law is nothing the SPÖ could agree with. The fixing of study fees, a lack of co-determination for students and still uncertainties in the further development of the evaluation force us to reject this innovation. Mrs. Minister! They announce a new development plan for the technical universities in the ÖVP Action Plan. This is now the third development plan under the 1994 and 2000 development and financing plans. 1994 and 2000 were still development and financing plans, now there are only more development plans. The word “financing” is no longer found in the division of your own paper. The alarm bells already have to shriek if there is no funding. [[Interference of Federal Minister Gehrer.]] I think that what you are writing is not just a semantic problem, but a real problem. There is no longer much left of development either. You will write here that the ÖVP will take up a total of 30 000 to 2010 for the increase in the number of places in higher education. That's right here. According to the technical report which we discussed in the Scientific Committee last week, exactly this number is analogous to the zero scenario presented by the University Council, i.e. the development that results if we do nothing at all, if we do not develop at all, if we do not create any additional places to study at all. This number, which you set as your goal, we achieve by doing nothing. That's a standstill policy, and we're already trying to bring it along. [[Abg. Zweytick: Have you not listened before?]] – I have already listened, so I can also criticize the plan and know why I can criticize it. Indeed, the plans you have go quite beyond educational reality, and they also go beyond the needs of students, the needs of the economy and the labour market. I should therefore like to make the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petra Bayr, Mr Broukal and Mr Colleagues concerning the offensive for vocational colleges. This proposal pursues a number of quantitative and qualitative objectives in its broad outlines. If we can find a common position on this, then we can also discuss the fact that we are discussing a development plan III, decide on a specific basis. We have some ideas that we would have liked to implement. This includes, for example, the fact that we would like 600 new beginners per year to be involved, as was the case in recent years. The goal would be to have 10,000 beginners in 2008. However, it does not include all those training courses that are now organised post-secondary and should be re-directed into the tertiary system, for example the non-medical medical trainings already mentioned. What seemed important to me was that there was a higher education framework plan, which somehow organized and merged all tertiary and postsecondary courses and training courses that exist and created the interfaces between them more coordinated and a higher permeability. We want a transparent evaluation and believe that the High School Council has done quite well so far, although it is also necessary to extend the Council's possibilities in terms of quality and quantity and to support them better. We want to provide women with easier and better access to the vocational college, on the one hand motivate them to enter non-traditional areas of study, and on the other hand we also want to promote all those areas of study, which are particularly requested by women, and to offer more places there. It is true that there are already more places in technical areas than interested parties, but especially in the health and social fields, the ratio of the numbers of interested persons to the numbers of existing places, for example 10 : 1. We want more offers for professionals. We can imagine that multimedia elements and distance learning elements can make a good contribution, even when it comes to people without Matura finding a better access to the tertiary education system that it becomes more permeable. In recent years, we have made very big cuts. We want an improvement in student participation, a serious monitoring of professional internships by the university institutions, and we want a reorientation of non-medical medical education. I think anyone who is at the heart of the college can only agree to this motion for a resolution. If the demands we make, which we are quite legitimate and for good reasons represented, are taken into account in the third development and financing plan, I believe that we can take a common path. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19596	I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bayr, colleagues and others in his key points has also been submitted in writing and is sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Dissemination and reproduction of 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, it is printed in the Stenographic Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19771	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19789	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I have already expressed great regret in the Committee that there has been no unanimity. I believe that our positions are, in fact, very close together and that perhaps the SPÖ and the Greens should think about it again. I am pleased that the Green Group today approves at least the amendment. I can call on the SPÖ to do so. In fact, I think it is incredibly important that we always talk about lifelong learning, that we offer a corresponding continuing, continuing education and training for adults, especially in institutions that have staff and know-how. That's very good at the colleges, I think. I also think it is important that there is the possibility of prohibiting such training offers in order to ensure quality. Furthermore, I think it is very important that the colleges can not compete in a wild growth of all the other institutions, but, where they are specialized, in places where they offer courses, they can also promote the corresponding continuing and continuing training. I regret that the SPÖ apparently does not want to accept this amendment either, and has not yet understood why. The issue has already been discussed in the Committee: How do we get more “atypical” students without Matura in the tertiary education area? . I may wish to draw your attention to the fact that we have put a great deal of emphasis on this. On the one hand, of course, the colleges are also open to students without Matura and they are wanted there. On the other hand, I believe, it is also practical and pragmatic, one of the main problems that young or older people without Matura often do not trust to enter the reception exams. I found this in conversation. It will therefore be our task, in the sense of an empowerment, to make a little more courageous, so that excellent employees in companies that have In the case of vocational training, dare to attend a vocational college. On the one hand, there is still a high level of inhibition to apply; on the other hand, it is also so that wherever the courses were overrun and are, the density of the good candidates is very high. But I don't think you should include someone who might be a little less suitable – and these aren't always those who don't have a matura, but it'll also happen – although he's less suitable because he doesn't have a matura. This would be detrimental to quality and really counterproductive. But we have done much more than just open up the colleges for students without Matura. At the same time, we also have the teacher-accompanied Matura, which can be made in training or directly following the teaching, so that the graduates of a teaching can have the opportunity to make the Matura with a small effort. All of these now fall under the heading of “maturants”, so that some of them are already more active at universities and in better positions. We have not only opened one way here, but several. These ways are also used. It is also very important what has been said about the higher proportion of women in the vocational colleges. That is right, it is desirable that it is our declared political goal. What I do not understand is what it is to do with your rejection of today's documents. What is the key problem with the fact that we still have too few women or fewer women, especially in the technical programmes? – It is in principle the case that in the entire German-speaking region, a greater distance of technology than in the Anglo-American region, especially among women, prevails. I am particularly grateful to Federal Minister Gehrer for putting the evil at the root by e-fit and women in technology and by other programmes already established in schools, so to speak, so to speak, so that women can trust to go more closely to the technical areas. It is too late to think about this at the time of entry into the vocational college; there is already the choice of career direction. It is also very important to develop the health profession in the field of higher education and to continue the 600 Plus programme. This is also carried on by Federal Minister Gehrer and by the ÖVP. I can tell you that, in all the plans we have made so far, we have far exceeded our own goals, which the Federal Government has set itself, both from the number of students and from the resources made available. You can assume that we continue this path forcibly. I would ask you once again to reconsider your rejection. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19860	The next speaker was Mr Dr Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19878	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I am pleased that so many people are interested in the subject of the University of Applied Sciences. It is a good sign for this House that this is an important educational issue. Secondly, Mrs Federal Minister and honourable Members of the Government, I can assure you that you have already heard from Josef Broukal and Petra Bayr: Although we reject this law, we do not, of course, reject the technical colleges. We support the development of this sector in a variety of ways and through our own concepts. This is a major concern for us, and we have therefore also tabled a comprehensive motion for a resolution which sets out exactly the direction in which this sector is to move forward. A few points. First: Mrs. Brinek said: Why do you find yourself at the study fee now in the law novel? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: An authorization!]] That's just an authorization. - Yes, we can read, colleague Brinek. But what does this empowerment mean when you look more closely? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: With a ceiling!]] This is also the authorization for the Federal Ministry to say to operators who now do not want to collect tuition fees: Okay, then we'll reduce the grant we give you when the contract expires, because you'd have the opportunity to introduce a study fee. I'm not talking about anything where I hear the grass growing, but I'm talking about things that have already been said to these operators. That is, as soon as this is in the law and the contract expires, this reduction will be made. That is why we find it wrong that this is in the law as empowerment. Secondly, the whole question of financing. We still remember very well – perhaps also Mr Hakl remembers – how we discussed the budget debate here in the House about whether the technical colleges are sufficiently financed for this year and for next year. They have sworn to us every oath and made public statements that the planned development in this area is, of course, sufficiently financed. Now I hear with satisfaction and joy that 10 million € will be made available for this year 2 and for next year. So it didn't mean what was in the budget, otherwise you shouldn't have taken this step. I wonder, Why Refuse So you're taking note of reality, and then half a year later you realize that you need more money now? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: To test the need!]] Thirdly, the courses. I believe that the universities, the higher education courses and the technical universities of further education should devote themselves to themselves is undisputed. Everyone who has experienced all these discussion processes in recent years knows that we have tried again and again to get this into the law. Remember, however, the university board, whose chairman was the last member of the committee. What does the report of the University Board say about these courses? – There is the word “wild growth” and a lot more to it. We have been talking for a long time about the fact that the ministry should actually look at this from the quality. And we get constant commitments: Yeah, that's what we're going to look at. That's what we're going to look at. But what do we get, Mrs. Federal Minister, almost every week? – Something about a review, for example, about an academically audited manager who is trained somewhere. That's what I'm asking myself: How do we deal with this “wild growth” if we are not even willing to look at the universities and other institutions? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: We'll do that!]] Again, the request to you: It is an urgent education policy concern that quality is offered and that it is precisely in these courses that it is looked at. What you are proposing in relation to these courses, Mr Brinek, is a form of quality assurance, with you writing in particular into the explanatory statement that this is the most necessary thing to do. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: At the university we have to...!]] What we have missed today – and I also miss colleague Lichtenegger; I thought he was talking about it – is the following: He has recently sent an e-mail and a press release to all university operators with the request to let everyone know what the Freedom Party is now working for at the technical colleges, namely for the “A-valuability” – under quotation marks. This is now being started by the liberals. – But I don’t read anything of that in the law, I wonder why. Mr Scheibner, you do not need to point out to us as if we were to prevent this. [[Abg. Scheibner: Step by step!]] That would be necessary. Mrs Bayr has already done it. Mrs. Federal Minister! The assessment draft contained elements for co-determination. It was based on the university law how these forms of co-determination should look at the colleges. Then, someone – I don't like to go further than anyone who was – excitedly decided that this will give the university a new role and that you will get this annoying participation at the colleges. – And swiss it was coming out of the assessment plan! They do not vote today on whether there will be co-determination at the colleges. She's been deleted! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You have to change the ÖH law!]] That's what we're saying: We agree in many ways on this development. As you, Mr Hakl, but have spoken of courage, I must say: They are in much of what we imagine too little courage. If there is a major innovation next time, in which we really also find those points that we have proposed today – at least in part – then we will be happy to agree again.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20002	As the next speaker, Mrs Bleckmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20021	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Niederwieser, it's always interesting: All over the world, you would like to see a level playing field with the universities, but when it comes to the empowerment you have addressed, it must not be that way again. They're always just looking for the goodies and not the other things. You have already found that it is very pleasing that additional funds – this year € 2 million and next year € 10 million – are available. That's where I've got to say: You can never make it right. First, it says it's nothing there, then something is provided and you say: You could've done that right now. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Budget truth!]] But that you may need and wait for the right time for certain negotiations in order to have the opportunity to get extra funds for one area, you already need to know for yourself. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You decide the time, don't you?- Oh, my God!]] And that's what Mrs. Minister did. As I said, Unfortunately, you can never do it right. This is just the basic problem that exists. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's a raunzer!]] . It's not actually it, rather his group. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's also a raunzer!]] We have heard of the wish of the president of the High School Conference Dr. Jungwirth, who was also in committee. This request is now being put in a motion for an amendment. This is just a wish that we fulfil to give the technical universities the opportunity to set up additional courses. I have already understood this in the Committee that a certain consensus or agreement has actually been signaled in this respect, that we must look very closely at how control is going about in this area. For example, there must be the possibility, as Professor Konrad said about the accreditation council, that these courses are going on. For example, this would be a good variant to introduce control in this area. I also believe that this will be important and necessary. I understood in the Committee that there was a consensus on this issue that something would be done and done in this direction. Mr Bayr has said that the plans go beyond the needs. – I have to say the following: You don't seem to know the plans exactly yet. Bring yourself in first! Look You're looking at exactly what that actually looks like! Then you can say the plans go past the needs. You first have to look at what it really is. Why don't you make a constructive contribution to the negotiations, to the preparation of the plan? Afterwards, you can talk about whether it fits or not. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But just to say in advance how you always do it, it all doesn't fit... [[Abg. Broukal: More applause, please!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You can clap!]] Many people listen to the topic of vocational colleges, but some of them may be a little somewhere else around this time. You have to understand. I know that you cannot complain, Mr Broukal, because it is also one of your principles, it is not, if any people are right on a question, even if the government parties are to admit it. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No, he's already clattered!]] [[Abg. Broukal: I clap constantly!]] Where? – You've clap every speech?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Broukal: I made every speech on this item on the agenda!]] [[Abg. Broukal: Sure!]] I'm sorry, I didn't do that. I'm sorry, I'm making abjects with you. I didn't know you were claping at every speech. I will now look at you more closely, Mr Broukal, as you will manage in the future whether you clap at the speeches or not. [[Abg. Broukal: You didn't deserve it!]] I know you didn't clap my speech, that's what characterizes me, and I'm glad about that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20209	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20230	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One of the main reasons why the SPÖ rejects this law is the introduction of tuition fees for universities. As we continue to reject the tuition fees at the universities, we will consistently do this also in the field of higher education, since the technical colleges are to increase accessibility and this is particularly true here. I would like to focus on a particular area, the proportion of women. I think that it is precisely the introduction of tuition fees that is closely related to this, since we know that the introduction of tuition fees at universities has very likely led to the fact that those who are new to the universities have a different social composition. In particular, this affects women from far-reaching shifts, from lower-income shifts. And, of course, through this measure, you do not contribute to achieving the supposedly common goal of increasing the proportion of women also in vocational colleges. It was at the beginning of the success story specialist universities so that the proportion of women was particularly low. It's located at a quarter. With a very important step in the development plan 2, i.e. to include the increase in the proportion of women in the criteria catalogue, it has been possible to move forward. Of course, we want to acknowledge that. While the proportion of women in 1994/1995 is around 25 percent, it is already around 37 percent in 2002/2003, which is progress, but – I believe we can agree on this – slow progress. The reason for this increase was not the one that has been particularly advertised and women's extraction programmes, but that there have been structural changes, offers have been made that go more into traditional women's areas, which is basically all right, but is a step and should not remain the only one. In the technical areas, women have actually received a good deal of attention, and are now at a level which is higher, but which is still unable to satisfy us. In other words, we must take several steps to move forward in the next few years. On the one hand, we have to start in the areas of education, which are pre-school, in schools, as far as vocational orientation is concerned. There must be encouragement, and girls must be encouraged to go into professional fields which are not traditional women. However, it must also be possible to encourage boys to enter traditional girl-oriented fields of work. According to the pattern of “daughters can be more” such a public campaign can be made under the title “sons can be more”. One important point is also the question of ironing. In this regard, we could imagine that in the future the allocation of funds should be linked to whether there are women's recovery programmes, whether they are planned. Then one can give preference to those who can have such programs. Another important point would be that where there are particularly low proportions of women, evaluations should be carried out and criteria drawn up on the basis of these evaluations, how to increase the proportion of women. Of course, we must continue to look into which areas women want to enter and where there are future-oriented opportunities and demand. It is therefore necessary to expand the corresponding offers.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20284	As the next speaker, Mrs Wolfmayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20302	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The interesting and still booming high school sector is constantly developing and needs to be constantly adapted to the new needs. I think that is aware of all of us, although, as we see today, we draw different conclusions from it. In any case, I would like to try to list the most important points of the adjustments now to be made, and at the same time to illustrate how this field of higher education continues to be profiled by measures that are primarily concerned with quality assurance and improvement, thus making it even more interesting for students who are working towards a rapid degree in innovative professions with partly very good career opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen! The University of Applied Sciences Law entered into force for the first time in 1993 and was already in place in 1998, 2000 and 2002. In the current innovation we wish to adopt today, each university holder is obliged to establish its own quality management. Accordingly, the responsibility of the High School Council for ensuring standards for the implementation of these evaluations is clearly clarified. Furthermore, the legal basis for double diploma programmes, the addition to the diploma and the determination of the level of the study contributions will be integrated in the Fachhochschule Studiengesetz. And I believe that this last point – you have noticed this when my colleague Kuntzl was last reported – is the only one to be found. Stupperstein, in order not to be able to agree, seems to be really alone in the study contributions. Ladies and gentlemen! There has already been a very dynamic development in higher education with very positive results. I might want to have a personal experience at this point. I was invited several times to the University of Applied Sciences Joanneum in Graz to open up vernissages in the double role as an artist and MP. I have been able to convince myself of the art- and cultural-friendly climate at these occasions and also through many intense discussions of the creative atmosphere that prevails there. Safe: The Graz University of Applied Sciences houses, among other things, the courses Industrial Design, Information Design, Information Management, Marketing, Journalism and Business Communications, led by a completely patented and competent woman, Mrs. Mag. DDr. Gabriele Russ. The director is also a woman, Dr. Anni Koubek – this as a secondary comment on women. So the courses I'm talking about here are more art-friendly from their theme. But it's about dealing with his creative people and the existing resources. I mean students on the one hand, as well as teachers on the other. Ideas not only to spread theoretically, but to provide quite a practical space and space, to organize events that students like to accept, and to develop as a technical university to the interesting exhibition space, to the gallery, that is also a sign, a symbol for that One not only teaches, but goes directly into practice and allows for a lively exchange among some very young artists. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Likewise, quality becomes visible to the outside, noticeable and experienceable. I would like to congratulate the Graz University of Applied Sciences at this point for the great management. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would have a few more points to list, but for reasons of time it can no longer be presented. You can still read all of this. On the whole, I would like to conclude by saying: This new University of Applied Sciences Act is another important step in the development of vocational education, and I am very sorry that the opposition seems not to be seen by the colleagues and they cannot go along with these necessary reforms, and in my opinion, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20367	Mr Krainer has now reached the speaker's desk for 4 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20385	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am speaking today on the protocol on the further continuation of the Austrian-Slovakia Action, scientific and educational cooperation. In the Committee on Science and Research, Mrs Federal Minister, you have not really been able to answer a few questions. Perhaps in the meantime you had the opportunity to do some research to answer these now. ==References====External links== In November 2001, more or less solemnly signed in Bratislava, and it took almost two years to bring it into this House. It is a very “extensive” protocol, that is, twelve lines long, so it took two months per line to bring it into this House. The question arises why such a thing takes such a long time. This action is based on a cultural agreement with Czechoslovakia. After Czechoslovakia disbanded itself and two successor countries were formed, namely the Czech Republic and Slovakia, the basis of this action was gone. From the point of view of the need, a provisional was created, namely this protocol, because it was not possible in the near future to conclude a separate cultural agreement with Slovakia and to continue this action on the basis of such a cultural agreement, which is good and important. In the meantime, there is this agreement, and this could of course have been the basis for this action, but that is not the case. This may be due to the fact that we live in Austria and have a longer life here than so many permanent solutions. However, what is new to me is the fact that, as you have done in the committee, such commissions are then praised and emphasized that it was originally a brilliant idea to do so, and I wonder why you do not stick to the way it was in the government template six years ago, and say that it is actually a pure commission. But I do not want to criticize so much today, because the protocol is a positive one, which is why we also support it. I would like to take this opportunity to tell you what we would be supporting in this area. Questions of student exchange or educational cooperation, which concerns the exchange of teachers, learners, students, are about mobility, language communication and the like. What is an important point or aspect is the fact that we have thousands of children in Austria who have Czech, Slovak, Polish, Romanian, Bulgarian and cetera as their mother tongue. The integration of these people does not mean that they need to adapt now and forget their mother tongue, but means a common development of the people living in Austria. It would also simply be stupid – if I may say so, Mr President – to abandon the qualities of these people. To this end, we support you, for example, in the further development or in the creation of primary, secondary and secondary schools, from AHS, BHS, BMS with bilingual education, so that we can strengthen these skills. The possibility of having the languages of the applicant countries as their native language is one that will also be very important for the economy in the next few years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are also happy to support you in the creation of full-day school forms, especially those of the whole-day school form, which all studies express the highest level of education, namely the whole-day school with restricted units, namely of learning units, of recreation units and of deepening phases. We also support you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also support you in changing Austrian foreign law so that exchange programmes can function as smoothly as between universities, because there are provisions in foreign law that facilitate exchange for students, but also for teachers who do not exist in the field of higher education. It would be reasonable to do this here, too. We also support you in increasing the recognition of various university studies, university studies, as well as other vocational training between states. Of course, we also support you in abolishing non-social tuition fees. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20455	Mr Brader is now speaking for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20474	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! My previous speaker said that he wanted the Minister's support in the establishment of all day schools with a limited character. Mr President, this possibility exists already. As you know, with the agreement of two thirds of all parents and teachers, this form of school can be established. Personally, I don't think much of it because I believe that the option should remain. It certainly does not make sense for children to be kept in school all day long, if they can enjoy their education and their free time elsewhere. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But this is not my real topic, but my real topic is the continuation of the bilateral scientific and educational cooperation within the framework of the Austrian-Slovakia action. What began ten years ago as a kind of aid measure has now become a flexible project, a scientific joint venture, and these intensive contacts have been very well developed, and cooperation reaches the EU level. Universities, colleges, colleges and other educational institutions have the opportunity to submit projects from all scientific disciplines, but individuals can also do so. With the Czech Republic – also my previous speaker has mentioned this – and with Hungary there are similar conventions, and this is good because, as I believe, this is an important signal that we are about to give shortly before the accession of Austrian neighbours to the European Union. I am also pleased that the Committee has agreed among all political groups that this Treaty will continue to apply until and including 31. ==References====External links== In the course of the Austrian-Slovakia campaign, the entire 670 projects were approved by the end of 2002, 303 scholarship recipients were funded and 1 206 scholarship months were awarded. Together with the promotions for excursions, meetings, workshops and so on, €3.3 million has been paid up to now. I believe that this is a good investment – for the future of Austrians in a common peaceful Europe, in a Europe that does not end behind Kittsee, Klingenbach or Spielfeld. In this sense, I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20519	Now, Mr. Ing. Gartlehner for 4 minutes to the speaker's desk. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20537	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I too would like to say a few words on the subject of colleges in Austria. I would like to say to Mr Bleckmann – who unfortunately voted in favour of her – that: Their perseverance, criticism, not wanting to perceive what is happening to the budget facilities of professional universities at the beginning of the year is really FPÖ-typical and testifies to mere refusal of reality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it was clear from the outset that these budgetary resources were necessary because of the places and numbers of students. So it was not a clairvoyance of the SPÖ representatives to demand at the time these funds that now need to be resold. We fear that similar budgetary improvements will be necessary in many areas, particularly in the field of education, science and research, although today the Federal Chancellor has reported very large amounts of funds and billions of funds, of which de facto only the modest interest rate will become research-promoting. Therefore, it is really once again a great Bluff also in the field of research and technology development in Austria. This is a shame, because it would be really great if there were a fund that would have such a means that could also finance and use research patent rights and thus also increase the money. Once again, it has been denied a great opportunity. Back to the colleges: I believe that the University of Applied Sciences is a real success project of the last decade and that from the point of view of federal policy, it is a very cost-effective form of study. In my opinion, however, it is necessary to operate the quality assurance system offensively at the specialist universities in the future. The evaluators are very restrictive on the road, you really have to say that and you can confirm it. It must be But flexibility has been given to reduce the number of courses to which there is no such large demand as is allocated to the places of study and to expand others where there is a high demand. There, I think, is a need for even more courage to be flexible. I would ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to act in this direction. I believe that there must also be effective growth in places of study. It is clear that the planned or completion of the existing courses will lead to about 30 000 students. For the time being, it is essentially not planned for further expansion, and I think it is necessary, since measures are still to be taken, in particular to create access opportunities for those wishing to enter second, improved professional qualifications from the first career path. The last point I would like to make is: I think that participation at the university must be a subject. It cannot be that the technical college has less co-determination than any primary school in Austria. It is a pity that the relevant passage was taken out of the law. For this reason alone, we feel that our rejection is justified. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20586	Mr Kurzbauer now speaks to us for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20604	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In your speech, Mrs Kuntzl, you have said that the introduction of study fees has reduced the rate of women's attendance or the completion of higher education. [[Abg. May. Kuntzl: I didn't say that!]] I put it that way. [[Abg. May. Kuntzl: This is a misunderstanding!]] But I would nevertheless like to present this on the basis of figures. In 2001/2002, when there were no study fees, the proportion of women was 30 percent, and in 2002/2003, i.e. a time with study fees, the share is 37 percent. Now on the development of the students in the technical field. As a result, the proportion of women in 2000/2001 was 17.7 percent, and in 2002/2003 there was an increase to almost 22 percent, with a concrete figure of 21.9 percent. So this is a clear proof that the women's rate in this area has nothing to do with the introduction of tuition fees. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Under item 7 of the agenda, we are dealing with the government template on the continuation of the Austrian-Slovakia action. The Austrian-Czech Cultural Agreement was ultimately the basis for the action of Austria-Slovakia, scientific and educational cooperation. The aim of this Agreement is to coordinate and finance the extended cooperation in the field of scholarships, but also to support the implementation or implementation of selected projects in the field of science and education. The duration of this action Austria-Slovakia was originally with 31. It could not be extended on the basis of the cultural agreement with Czechoslovakia in force at the time, not because of the establishment of two independent states, namely the Czech Republic and Slovakia, from Czechoslovakia. ==References== A separate international agreement was therefore concluded on December 1996. On the basis of the success, the present government template now sees a new extension up to and including 31. ==References== The cost framework per anno is budgeted for me about € 189 000 or around 2.6 million schilling and should remain unchanged. I'm just taking out a few examples: In recent years, approximately 300 cooperation projects between Austrian and Slovak universities and specialized universities have been financially supported, as well as some accompanying measures, such as support for scientific events abroad or the promotion of start-up contacts for project cooperation, to name just a few examples. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we agree with the extension of this agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20654	The next speaker is Mr Rada. 4 minutes speaking time. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20672	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am also counting on those who call the University of Applied Sciences a quite successful work from the early nineties, although I also count myself among those who at that time were somewhat critical of the origin discussion. But even if we call that good, we still do not think everything that has happened in the past 14 years has been positive. Mrs Wolfmayr believes that the University of Applied Sciences must constantly adapt to the new economic and global developments, and in this I give its full right, but that is exactly the point that has not occurred, and therefore our group cannot agree to this amendment. It has already been made clear by honourable Members in the introduction why we cannot accept this amendment, but I would like to add a few points to it. It has not succeeded in providing comprehensive facilities with high-school courses. This has not yet been dealt with forcefully, but this is an inconspicuous difficulty for young people, especially in rural areas, where distances are very large. Where the mobility guarantee is not available, where there is more difficult access, additional financial expenditure for the housing market is now included in the study fees. We have already heard that access opportunities have been littlely facilitated, even more difficult, for professionals in particular. But it must be the sense of the University of Applied Sciences that more young people from the dual system have the opportunity to make a high-school education, and I even mean, Mrs. Federal Minister, that we still have a lot of adaptation work in the tertiary field. It has also been said that university and technical college should not be competitors, but rather should complement each other more and more. I am also adding the pedagogical universities. It can't be that way here – because I already said it – that universities train teachers and that pedagogical universities also train teachers. Here we could do a lot of things together. What I also find difficult – and we can read that too – is the practical semester. From many students we learn that they are left alone in the practical semesters in the care, but also that many qualitatively high-quality training places are missing. At this point, I would like to remind you that this is not just the case with the vocational colleges, but also with the secondary and higher schools in which the curriculum necessarily requires a teaching internship. Only: The places for this are not available. We must therefore consider either changing the curriculum or creating a guarantee for young people that they will also receive these training places. One last: It is quite positive that quality assurance management needs to be established. Only: The recipient is obliged to pay this. I hope and am convinced that these quality managements are so objective that they comply with the contract, and not that they may be accepted at times: Whoever pays, makes it. There must also be a guarantee that the quality is guaranteed accordingly. In principle, it is to be said: Professional universities are a successful work, but for jubilant songs it is still too early. That is why we cannot agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20709	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20727	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you follow the debate – and I have listened all the time now – and is not really a subject or someone who has never studied or has never been able to study, however, you actually have a completely different access to the professional universities in this country and also to their development. I have to say – and you have admitted it yourself – that it is a success story that began with Erhard Busek in 1993 and that it is a very interesting, exciting project, also seen on time. In fact, this development also gives absolute justice to today's status and the current status quo. I think it is good advice here for everyone who has supported this development and will support it step by step, in the next steps too, because this exciting project has a dynamic in it, so that you have to adapt constantly, always have to be flexible, as there are always changes here. On the one hand, it is criticized that we already have high school courses today, which are no longer spent, on the other hand, are criticized that there are many that we have not yet offered. What actually happened? – In just under ten years: currently 136 courses, which are running and also, Mr Rada, thank God already take place decentralizedly in the nine federal states, because they are also important, decisive boosters for the regions, where the location and workplace are concerned, where the security is concerned, about the qualification of Austrian vocational training courses and the people who are workers, who are simply among the best in Europe from the qualifications. This does not come from somewhere, it has certainly not only been created in the last ten years, but it has been pointed to today's situation in just the last ten years. I am very glad that there is objective awareness of what is in the future on the part of legislation. There is no criticism in the room from my point of view, because I am listening here to approval from all sides, with reference to the problem and also to the danger. But there I see a little bit of a one-sided hint, and then, if you've always been concerned with this matter and lived in it or comes out of matter, like many academics who were my predecessors in today's debate. Then I also compare this with other segments: If you always have only one educational path and know this educational path, if you actually have no insight into other sectors and do not do so, then you become somehow blind. There is a certain blindness in which I can no longer see the whole, although I have to see the total. I would like to make this aspect conscious today, because I do not agree with some of the critical areas, and yet I believe that I can also represent a large, objective part of the opinion of our people here – from my point of view, from my region, which is also a border region. But this is not a contribution to the matter now, the matter has often been mentioned positively enough. I do not want to repeat them again, but I would point out that it is not my impression that it is due to the tuition fees. There are just a few people who have the opportunity to obtain further training in addition to the profession. Therefore, this study fee is also entitled on the one hand. Many people in the universities do not have the opportunity to visit a FH in addition to the job. The fact that education costs money and has to be worth something is, I think, clear to everyone. Instead, I think and have the impression – and this is rather worrying and sad for me – it is because it is a request from the government parties, and therefore, Mr Green Forest and friends from SPÖ, it is almost natural to reject it. You're just looking for an argument and then you're sitting on it. Only the unanimity is striking, as the word “student’s fee ” means. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] If that is just what it is – and you know that this is a living project that continues – then it cannot fail that this project FH has your approval for the future, namely for decisive improvements in this context. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign again.]] I would particularly like to thank the Minister for her struggle that something has gone on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20791	Mrs Magistrate is now speaking to the speaker's desk. Trunk. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20809	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am going to impose a two-minute voluntary limit on speaking time, out of solidarity with my colleague Wimmer. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Point one: It is the study fees and many other legitimate arguments why the SPÖ Group does not agree. It is recognised that tuition fees are a barrier, and we are opposed to any form of barrier in this area – since Austria has a too low academic rate. We will therefore not agree to this either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The second point is the intention in the Committee and also by the Minister to concentrate and summarize the high-school locations where there are also a university environment. At first glance you can win something. Nevertheless, I would like to take into account, very sustainable, that high-school locations also have their right where they are necessary for regional and local educational, economic and location development. I am referring in particular to rural areas. Third point: It is up to me – not from local patriotism or from the limited nature of thinking within narrow limits – to be a lobbyist here for a university of science, which is still to be built, namely for the really very innovative concept of the University of Applied Sciences Wolfsberg in cooperation with a Swedish university. This is an innovative concept, and I ask here from the Federal Government for an infrastructural, second financial and third consent, a fair opportunity for Wolfsberg's university location. I'll build on it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20860	The last speaker on this point is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20879	Mr. President! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When we – I mean a group of Wieselburgers – sought and fought for the technical college in Wieselburg ten years ago, we did not have the slightest idea or idea of what a successful and rapid way these schools would go. With the Fachhochschule Studiengesetz 1993 the foundation for a dynamic high school policy development was laid, and this success is inseparably linked with our Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the meantime we have received the award – five years ago and not least thanks to the help of the then Minister of Agriculture Wilhelm Molterer and our head of state Erwin Pröll. [[Bravorufe and congratulation with the ÖVP.]] What is now offered in Wieselburg? – The degree program is called MLR Product and Project Management and is a branch company of the Wiener Neustädter Fachhochschule für Wirtschaft und Technik GmbH. With the start of this degree course, Product and Project Management was developed a future-oriented course for the Austrian food industry as well as for the emerging field of renewable raw materials and renewable energy and environmental management. As of the 2004 programme, of course, a Bakkalaureat study course will also be offered in Wieselburg and a course is expected to be offered to expand the offer. The head of study is proud to meet the needs of the economy – and I now quote literally – that students learn to learn beyond the material of knowledge, to think and to act in an innovative, unconventional, flexible way. The focus is on man, the student, at the center of all events. It should be more than an education for students, the student should also be able to assume social responsibility. Through “Training on the job”, students will be brought closer to market-related contexts and special knowledge in a short time. What characterizes the course is the combination of management knowledge and technical competence, which makes our graduates the process can manage from raw material to product development to consumed product. A special feature may also be mentioned. We are always talking about quotas; as far as the students are concerned, we have a balanced quota, i.e. 51 per cent gentlemen and 49 per cent ladies, and if you look at internal teaching and research staff, we have a female share of over 73 per cent. That's very remarkable. However, if you take the total staff back, the women will be 37 percent. The development of technical universities is also widely recognized in the population. In the current educational monitoring, our professional universities receive the excellent rating 1.8. The fact that we are ahead with our plan soll has certainly been mentioned earlier. I would therefore just like to say one more thing: Under the aspect of the Federal Government's growth package, as already carried out by German Chancellor Schüssel today, in which research and development are enormously forced, as well as in terms of a European university area and in the European science area, the Austrian specialized universities are certainly making a significant contribution to the future of our country with their practical training, their dynamic process and their quality offensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e20945	In the word, no one has been reported for this. This debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We first reach the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the German law on higher education courses, into 217 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Dr. Brinek, Mag. Dr Bleckmann, colleagues, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. There is also a request for a separate vote by Mr Greenewald for the supplementary or amendment just mentioned. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Gertrude Brinek, Mag. Dr Bleckmann, colleagues, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. Whoever stands for this, I ask for a sign of faith. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. - That's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. – This was adopted by a majority and is therefore so decided at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Committee's request, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol on the continuation of the Austrian-Slovakia Action, scientific and educational cooperation, to be approved in 197 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We're now on the 8th. Agenda item, first reading. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Is there a motion for a resolution? - I'm reassembling. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking for understanding. A motion for a resolution on the offensive for vocational colleges has not yet been voted on, so I shall return to the last item on the agenda. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bayr, ladies and gentlemen, on the offensive for vocational colleges. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. I'm asking: Are there any other motions for resolutions? – The secretariat says no. 8. Point First reading: Request by Dr Christoph Matznetter, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act (172/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21065	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21090	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Parliament is also sometimes in the process when certain things are going on with'speed kills'. A good example was the rigid cuts in accident insurance. There Black and Blue gave us a cut in an unpleasant way, in people who did not have it easily in life: Victims, persons who receive compensation, which are clearly below what other countries pay, compensations which have been fixed in accordance with the circumstances of tax freedom. The Constitutional Court also had to go to the parade in this example of the black and blue government. [[Abg. Wittauer: You changed the Constitutional Laws earlier...!]] The Constitutional Court has now repealed these arrangements for two years. Now, in 2003, you are sending the victims back to the application, instead of giving them the tax freedom as it existed before. That is why we are once again proposing to grant tax freedom for the year 2003 and subsequent years and to the people who have previously been deducted the wage tax, by means of the small annual compensation according to § 77 para. 3 to replace income tax law. Be so decent, let the victims be free of tax! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21129	Mr Tancsits has now spoken to us. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21148	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter obviously did not read the request of his group, which he presented to us. For on the grounds of this request it is stated: ‘The Constitutional Court has declared the taxation of accident pensions to be constitutional in principle.’ That's exactly what it's all about today. First of all, I do not understand how, on every occasion, one can point out that laws cannot be implemented in this way, because they conflict with the Constitutional Court – and by the way, there would have been a lot to say: of 339 review requests, about last year, six of these Federal Governments have been repealed – and if something is confirmed in accordance with the principle, then you want to change it afterwards. Secondly, I do not understand from the tax system, Mr Matznetter and your group, because you are serving us on a single plenary session requests and resolutions which would cost a lot of what the accident pension tax brings, and then you demand a tax reduction for all. Thirdly, I do not understand the logic if you are always talking about the reduction of small incomes and with the accident pension tax that has been constructed here, however, an extreme tax on small incomes, up to 20 000 s per month. That's right, that's constitutional! The introduction at the planned speed was rightly suspended in 2001 and 2002, but not the principle of this accident pension tax. In fact, it is not so, as you say in the second paragraph of your application, that an intervention in pension benefits is to be seen, which violates the principle of trust in the pension system. If that were the case, then any change in social security benefits would be virtually only possible with a majority of two-thirds. That's not the case, that's the order. The accident pension tax for 2003 is correct, as is the €70 million we need for the projects from these disability billions, the taxing of incomes up to 20 000 S, and the 50 percent increase in heavy pension funds.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21188	Mr Dolinschek now speaks to us. 5 minutes speaking time. - You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21206	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter, with your request you are a little too late! Taxation is misinterpreted. If I read through the request – my previous speaker, Mr Tancsits, has already explained that – then I must say that in fact no one understands why you do not withdraw the request at all. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The application is from June!]] I know he's from June! But then you could withdraw it now, because this accident pension tax, as the Constitutional Court has confirmed, was constitutional. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Why withdraw? You're not doing anything!]] It was simply the rapid introduction with 2001 and it was a deadline for a repair until 31. ==References== This has now been done. In 2004, there will no longer be this accident pension tax. When we introduce the taxation of the accident pension, Mr Matznetter, we have done so in a systematic manner – you, Mr. Tax Advisor, should actually know that! . we have pursued the objective of complying with the principle of equality of taxation. If, for example, a taxable person receives a pension from a private accident insurance scheme, it is taxable as a recurring reference, even if the accident pension is not linked to the activity. And if an accident victim receives a pension from the liability insurance of an automobile driver who owes the accident, this pension is fully taxable. It is similar, as has been said, in the case of pensions from a privately completed accident insurance. On the inequality between the taxation of accident pensions and the invalidity pension – I am still speaking in Schilling –: From a disability pension of 25 000 S grossto you receive 20 200 S net, but with an accident pension you receive gross for a net 25 000 S. The injustice is the following, Mr Matznetter: If an apprentice has an accident at work and gets an accident pension, then it is minimal because it is oriented towards income. On the other hand, if a Member has an accident at work on the way from or to Parliament, he will be very high. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You really don't understand!]] This is the injustice of this system, but they should actually recognize it! In any case, however, all the accompanying measures have been taken. The disability billions were created, and all the measures were taken, which was not the case before. Mr Matznetter, I would like to conclude by saying: You have certainly come a little too late with this request, because it is now out of date!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21276	The last speaker was: Mr Oellinger. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21294	Mr Dolinschek, even though you are still so excited: Nevertheless, you cannot take away the fact that, although the recognition of the Constitutional Court lifted the accident pension tax for 2001 and 2002, it was not for 2003! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] Mr Dolinschek! Once you explain to your people for whom you are supposed to be working here that you can now make a request for 2001/2002 which will reverse the tax, but that the same person who has been able to make this request for 2001 and 2002 will have to pay this tax in 2003! Explain – if we are already there, and I am referring immediately to the beautiful example that you have brought yourself – why a person who receives 17 000 S – even I am speaking now in Schilling – pension, which is certainly not the smallest, but also not an exciting, pension, and a accident pension of 4000 S or 5 000 S, because the accident occurred at the beginning of the professional activity of this person, although it may have been a serious accident of 50 or 60 percent employment reduction, must now pay taxes from this sum! Is that understandable? Above all, taxation will continue to continue to apply to this person until after 2001/2002. Summary: The application is in itself consistent and meaningful. And precisely because Mr. Federal Minister and the Secretary of State have also been publicly applied for with taxpayers' money, they have reversed the accident pension tax, while here she explains that this is not at all in question, this request is even more useful. If the truth is said in public and the Members say here that something is not at all possible, then we are happy to hold this debate in public!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21337	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 172/A to the Financial Committee. 9. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act and the Re-foundation Funding Act (201/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21373	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. His speaking time is 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21420	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A growth and standard assurance law has been presented to us today. However, despite intensive studies and the persecution of the whole discussion, I have not been able to find out what a positive impact this package should have on economic growth in the next few years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] What growth rates are expected to be expressed as a percentage? How many additional jobs will this create? We Socialists have long felt that a genuine economic recovery programme is needed and have therefore already presented such a programme in the summer with regard to infrastructure and education. We are convinced that two points are important in a economic recovery programme. The first point is the dimension, that is, it must be a proper approach. It is a matter of concern to the The second point is that there must be a time limit. If you comply with these two points, you can also see the effect. We are therefore particularly interested in the fact that business investment is taking place in addition and have submitted an application for a draft law setting a new 30 percent investment exemption for investments above the average of the last three years. We believe that this has created a real alternative to the investment premium, which has been extended today, because this investment premium has been effective for two years and will reduce the effect of an additional extension. Therefore, our appeal: Support You have this request to revive the Austrian economy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21465	Mr Dkfm is now speaking. Dr. stupidly 5 minutes or less to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21483	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with my previous speaker on two points: It is positive that the SPÖ club is also concerned about how to create investment incentives. Secondly, it is positive that this model has been chosen for the investment increase premium over a period of three years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr President, what I do not like is that, contrary to the increase in the investment premium, only those companies that have a profit benefit! All the others have nothing to do with this investment exemption. Unfortunately, you have to say that. I therefore believe that the investment growth premium model, as it is extended for one year in the growth package, is much more efficient. We will have the detailed discussion in the Financial Committee, but I say again: I consider the investment increase premium to be more intelligent than the – though modified – model of the old investment allowance.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21520	Mr Bucher is now speaking. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21538	Mr President. High house! We have already talked about the growth package today. This particular proposal is about introducing an investment exemption again, as we had been doing in the past several years. In any case, we believe that the investment premium is a much better investment incentive, especially since it would be equivalent to an investment exemption of 30 percent as proposed by you. I believe that in total with this growth package and with this investment premium, we have reached a much more intelligent, better and effective solution and I think that we will also stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21571	According to Josef Bucher, MP Mag. Kogler 4 minutes. [[Abg. Wittauer: Or less!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I emphasize that 4 minutes doesn't mean a must, but a skill!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21609	Mr President. Thank you for the calls, on the note that we will discuss the details in the Committee. I am very grateful for that this time. Last time you said that what comes from the SPÖ is a nonsense. Then you'll like to hear that! In this context, I would like to say that both instruments can and can be seen. Perhaps the system of the 1980s was not at all the stupidest in these things, according to which companies could choose alternatively between early depreciation, investment premium and investment exemption. I'm just saying so much: For me, the investment premium is also a good and, in this sense, very dear and expensive measure, Mr Moser, because the premium works for all. If both of us agree that economic policy should be made, then you would actually have some sort of an explanation, but I will teach you so to speak. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: We also give you a chance!]] The premium then works for all, if in all, something similar to stagnation at a high level – I say this only once unironically –. Then, of course, it is perfectly clear what is happening, and that is the problem that we must solve very well: At some point, the credibility of the policy must lead to this instrument being cut off. We are extending the premium this time. I think that's right. We already said this today. Now we should agree that in 2004, according to the announcement formally introduced today in the framework of the package, it is actually out of date. I think it should be agreed by all the parties so that companies already know it in advance. Then there are the permanent re-education effects that we do not want. If we take measures, they will now have an impact on the economy. In the event that there are not so many fluctuations in the economy, I consider the investment exemption to be more sensible. This would also have to be yours, because of course it does not seem as structurally conservative as the premium. In the long term, it is then, market economy argumented, perhaps even an advantage that those who sometimes make profits in between should have something. It cannot be that we are constantly awarding investments, in which actually not even a profit comes out at some point. In this way the truth would find itself in the middle. Now the premium is certainly still acceptable, but it must end, and the investment exemption is certainly a reasonable alternative. In this sense, we should proclaim, at this point, the freedom of choice for entrepreneurs who are always apotrophic by you. And the tax advisor's industry will be happy again.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21644	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21664	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to join with Mr Kogler in this regard. Mr President, we see this as a supplement. That is to say, there should be both instruments. The premium has its merits, but habitary effects will occur, in particular the takeover effect, as we also know from economic literature. That means: There should be the premium and in addition the allowance. I think we could get in touch with that. If you see this in connection with the other points that we have raised with this package, i.e. stability funds for SMEs plus our education premium model, then this is an overall model in contrast to what the Federal Government has presented this morning. This is indeed a step in the Lisbon directive. All aspects of the Lisbon Directive, including human resources, are taken into account. In addition, however, increased public investment would be necessary in this project. This is also foreseen in the Lisbon project. Only when they do this and create appropriate framework conditions for private companies will they also be motivated to make investments, and that is exactly what is to be promoted by our model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21697	The last speaker is Mrs Sburny. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21716	I believe that it is basically good to discuss additional investment incentives here again. . However, we would like to discuss further with the SPÖ in the Committee on Counter-Accounts, which it puts in place in the case of cost-covering, that it wants to obtain the tax advantage of the profits not collected and thereby abolish them. We are not quite sure – or I would like to discuss this once – whether this cannot be quite an additional measure. However, I also believe that this tax advantage in the way it has now been decided is not favourable, but it could be improved with a change on the one hand towards investment incentives and not simply in terms of saving premiums for companies and on the other hand also on the issue of the level. It would have to be clarified up to what height of profit this should be possible and whether, if you lower it, this could be a good opportunity for small and micro-enterprises to strengthen equity. In this sense, we will certainly have a lot to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21746	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept the motion for a resolution 201/A to the Financial Committee. 10. Point First reading: Request by Mr Heinz Gradwelt, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Plant Protection Act 1997 (168/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21784	Finally, we reach the beautiful 10. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Wimmer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You're talking for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21809	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, High house! As announced at this first reading, it is about amending the Plant Protection Act of 1997. I would like to point it out very briefly: We want rules similar to those laid down in the Food Act. In other words, there must be public warnings or instructions once harmful feed has been placed on the market. The template provides that this information obligation or warning obligation is to be laid down in § 29. - That's the one point. A second point is very important for us: In any case, there is no revision and sampling plan in the old law as it is intended for food. Therefore, this safety mechanism will be re-regulated in § 28a, because it simply should not be so, ladies and gentlemen, that a large population group may be threatened by harmful plant protection products. Ladies and gentlemen! It also concerns the protection of farm holdings. There is an urgent need for action, and that is why we, ladies and gentlemen, of the government groups, can invite you to solve this problem together with us and to take the decision together with us at the next readings! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21842	Mr Schultes is now speaking to us for 5 minutes, which is a ceiling. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21860	Mr President. High house! We're experiencing something we didn't deserve. We are currently experiencing the third recast of a written draft of an old law. This is really embarrassing, because honourable Member Maier has already introduced this in 2001, it has not gotten out of it, then it has brought back to Parliament's degree welfare, but it has no interest today. Maier has no interest either, and Mr Wimmer can't do anything about it, he is sent to the speaker's desk here to read something that is not correct in the matter. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Interestingly, we are talking here about the Plant Protection Act, but in the application statement you are writing about feed. But that doesn't happen in all sections – you've really happened to a malheur, a mess, a mess, a slutting. We didn't deserve such an opposition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The topic of plant protection products is always a subject on which we are concerned. You can do well, and you're very happy to do that, it's just a shame. Ratless, unintelligible and always the same reel. That doesn't interest any more! The Austrian consumers know that our products are worth something, they know the quality. The Germans know: We export more today than we import. The freshness and vitality of our products – people like it. I can only say: What's worth something, too, may cost something. If you say that to the Chamber of Labour, you may also change the information policy. Friends! Culinary diversity is a regional cultural heritage, and it is worth something and may cost something. And I'll give you a good tip: It's something G'scheites, maybe then the applications will be g’scheiter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21918	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Itching 5 minutes to us; this too is a ceiling.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21936	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is about agriculture now, but I would also like to take the opportunity now to give my Carinthian friend Puswald, as it were, late honor for the fact that there seems to have been an inconsistency today in the course of my contribution to the debate. He would've said something he didn't do and that it's down. – This was not about the railways, but about any other matter in a conversation. Dear colleague! I hope that this will eliminate all the ambiguities. Of course, I appreciate your appreciation in this area, but I should also like to say that in a pre-election period with Members of the Carinthian Party, we are changing a word here and again, perhaps not entirely in line with what has been said. [[Unrest in the hall.]] On the subject of agriculture: My previous speaker has put it to the fore. The phytosanitary law we currently have is not a bad law, and we will certainly do well to...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21966	Mein Ladies and gentlemen, a little quieter please!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e21982	... to ensure that it remains competitive. In this context, I would like to point out once again that it is a little surprising for me that, although Mr Gradwelt is bringing in and protegrating the proposal, it seems to be no longer worth sitting here at that later hour, but for whatever reason he has gone home. I don't want to suspect it, because it's not my business. On the whole, we will certainly be discussing this in the Committee. We shall look at what we are doing with it, and our group will certainly consider whether this request is in the interests of farmers or whether this request is only in the interest of a populist idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e22012	The last speaker today is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber, who took five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e22061	One time in order to save Mr Gradwelt, Mr Scheuch. My colleague, Mr Gradwelt, has been put to health. I think it's understandable that he's not in plenary today. To find out to my colleague, Mr Schulte, that this is the third recast: Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very central area, namely food safety, which we have really talked about in recent years and where we have done little. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Maybe you! We've done a lot!]] This is one of the most sensitive substances, namely plant protection products, highly sensitive substances, Mr Molterer. Don't take too much of these substances, they're unhealthy. Therefore, there is also the need for revision and control plans, genuine effective monitoring, a public warning to protect the population. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially the abstraction and escape of plant protection products into the atmosphere – which is known – is extremely dangerous for the environment, for the entire biodiversity. [[In the direction of the Abg. May. Molterer, who offers an snack to the speaker:]] Mr. Molterer, what do you want to offer me here? A sugar? I hope not to use a plant protection product! To this end, it must be said that the measures to reduce pesticides in Austria have not been effective enough so far. It is a slight reduction, but we still have 3 200 tonnes a year of active substances that we powder into the air, which we bring to the ground and which are absolutely certainly dangerous to the health of farmers. That is why Mr Gradwelt's request, Mr Maier, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is very important and correct. It should be dealt with seriously and should be approved in the Committee. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In this sense I wish you a nice evening without a plant protection product and perhaps even with a good glass of wine. That would be appropriate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e22108	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment 168/A to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-11-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00037_d7e22138	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 251/A to 288/A have been tabled. Question No 1039/J to 1068/J has also been received. Debates of the European Parliament Cordula Frieser as well as Mr Theresia Haidlmayran have been brought to the President of the National Council, and I think I have even answered both questions. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 13. November, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting will be started at Question Time. Good evening and good night! The sitting is closed.
