ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2057	I'll open the 17th. Meeting of the National Council on the basis of a sufficiently supported request pursuant to § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Oilman's got that hand.]] . I see that Mr Oellinger is speaking about business treatment. – Ladies and gentlemen, I will first read the statements and call on you. ==References====External links== Meeting of 7. ==References====External links== Meeting of 8. In May 2003, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, Members of Parliament are reported pepper and Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2091	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllwird by Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldnerby Federal Minister Günther Platterrepresented. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2124	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2307	Mr Gusenbauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, asked for the written question made at the beginning of the meeting 438/J by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues, to the Minister of State for Defence concerning the conclusion of the confusion in order to deal with the Eurofighters urgently. The debate on the urgent question will take place at least three hours after its submission, i.e. at 3 p.m. Mr Oellinger spoke on business. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2337	Mr President. I would like, in an analogy to a statement on the Rules of Procedure of Dr. Khol of the time, to have a debate on the Rules of Procedure in accordance with § 59 para. 3 applications for GMOs. Mr President. In the last few days we have been confronted with a situation in the parliamentary deliberations on the budget accompanying law, which is on the brink of the regulatory capacity or working capacity of the corresponding Buget Committee. [[Call the ÖVP: This is your interpretation!]] We still have no clear figures and facts on how to proceed in the individual areas – regardless of whether this is the subject of the withdrawal hunters, pensioners or politicians' pensions or pensions. There is a statement or a promise that we will receive the relevant requests on the other areas by Tuesday, but not on pensions, but on the subject of political pensions or pensions, but not on the subject of withdrawal hunters. There is still complete ambiguity about this! Mr President. This is therefore of particular relevance because we assume that the Budgetary Accompanying Act must be consulted and adopted in the Committee before the Budgetary Act – and that the Budgetary Act can only be adopted thereafter. We see this process at risk or this circumstance leads us to believe that it may not be possible to comply with it. That is why I apply according to § 59 para. 3 GOG to hold a debate on the Rules of Procedure immediately following this speech – and would also like to speak for this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2380	Deputies! According to § 59 para. 3 GOG may decide to hold such a debate to the National Council. Before this request is put to the vote, however, we agree with the Usus that a representative of each parliamentary group can speak for it. Is there word messages for that? Please, Mr Klubobmann Molterer.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2405	Mr President. I would just like to hold this debate on the Rules of Procedure that Mr Oellinger has started...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2452	Ladies and gentlemen, please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2468	I would ask you from the SPÖ to clarify your management questions. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Oellinger! High house! I'd like to hold on: Firstly, the discussion in the Subcommittee of the Budget Committee has so far led to the completion of the discussions of the budget chapter in the subcommittee. Secondly, Under the professional leadership of the honourable Member Of course, Auer will be intensively consulted on the budget accompanying law in the Committee on Budgets. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, 95 hours have been spent in the Committee on Budgets and in the subcommittees for these deliberations. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Member of the European Parliament Auer has postponed the Committee in his capacity by Wednesday next week, and it will, of course, be another opportunity on Wednesday to discuss in detail and in detail – I assume – the Budgetary Accompaniment Act. In this case, it should be noted that, in [[Ironic cheerfulness as well as intermediate calls at the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I hope that all political groups will be interested in this matter and not in the length of time given.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2536	Mr Klubobmann Scheibner spoke in this debate on the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2554	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a discussion some time ago about the fact that too few hours and too few possibilities are available in the various committees to deal with the important materials of the budget accompanying laws. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] – I believe that the many, many hours of debates in recent days have shown that this is not the case! [[Objection as well as intermediate calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The current debate on the Rules of Procedure, which has been requested in connection with this issue, lacks any basis because the Committee negotiations are not yet completed and will continue. [[Prolonged calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There will continue to be many, many hours through which to discuss this important matter. The amendments will be tabled in good time and will then be discussed, and the decisions will be taken – just as is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are established, they apply to all, and I therefore believe that there should be no room for party-political agitation here.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2618	Mr Matznetter has now come to speak for the Social Democrats' Club.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2643	Mr President. High house! It is nice that Mr Molterer and Mr Scheibner have just spoken. – It would have been good if they had been in the committee once. Our clubman Cap was present! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman: Where is Mr Gusenbauer now?]] The same two gentlemen, whose application is still the subject of the debate – the so-called carrier rocket on the political pensions – signed by Mr Scheibner, who does not know what is in this request, and he says he has not signed it as a request... [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman: Where is your clubman?]] I say, Mr President, that the question of dealing with applications which were not meant as a request but were signed by Mr Scheibner must be the subject of a discussion of the Rules of Procedure. Those requests that we should negotiate there are not present! There is the price of the interception hunters: “xxx”; there are various words – however, to the bill, of which we only know of the hearsay! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You should speak to the Rules of Procedure!]] There is something to be negotiated, to which the leader of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – But the vote will be taken here in plenary session on 4 April. Something completely different on June! This requires a debate here! Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, High House!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2733	Mr Oellinger has tabled an application in accordance with § 59 para. 3 GoG to debate his speech. I'll vote on it. I would ask those who are in favour of this request for a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. Rejected. No further applications shall be made. I am now interrupting the sitting until 3 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2779	I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Defence concerning the end of the confusion about the Eurofighters (438/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2809	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 438/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, their reading by the writer is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2946	Before I give the floor to the applicant, I declare that the following Rules of Procedure were set out in the Presidential Conference for the period from 15 to 17 o'clock: Applicants for the reasons 20 minutes, a member of the government with 20 minutes, then one speech per group of 10 minutes each, and finally another member of the government with 10 minutes speaking time. The remaining speaking time until 5 p.m. will be divided among the political groups by the President-in-Office of the Council. All actual corrections will only be called after 5 p.m. I now give the honourable Member Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer as the first questioner to justify the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e2970	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are facing a very serious situation: A great and successful tradition of Austrian politics threatens to end, namely that tradition, to look for common solutions on the essential questions for Austria, for the Austrians. I could show this by a number of examples: from the planned massive pension reductions to the introduction of self-maintainment in the health system, to the handling of the Austrian Parliament in recent days – and of course also to the handling of today's special meeting, namely the planned purchase of combat aircraft. In all these cases, it is apparent that a certain degree of pride in the government is becoming widespread, that it is to be ruled out over the interests of the Austrian population and that it is not the dialogue that is in the foreground, but the search for decisions taken once. That is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let us take a look at the real concerns of the Austrians! – They are concerned about their workplaces, they are concerned about economic development, they are afraid of their pensions, and they fear a sustainable health care. But the Austrians are certainly not afraid of a military attack from one of our neighbouring countries, because the Austrians are much wiser than this German government suspects, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Austrians know that a wise foreign policy ensures peace by far better than many military devices. The Austrians also know and appreciate the strengths of the Austrian federal army in carrying out their duties, such as international, well-informed military operations for peacekeeping, political mediation between conflict parties, work in international organizations and institutions, and also in humanitarian missions. Everyone knows that today it is a matter of developing a reasonable system of security and defence in the European Union – a system where no one country is away and each country takes over its tasks. Each country should bring in what it can best do and bring in. It is precisely this situation that we have to prepare for today. It is precisely for this situation that we need to develop our concepts and ideas. But what we certainly do not need for the new situation in Europe is the purchase of sintering fighter aircraft that Austria cannot afford. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer stands with the government bank and talks with the ministers present.]] Mr. Minister of Defence! [[Call at the SPÖ: He doesn't listen!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: What an unkind, Mr President!]] A party colleague from you, the former Minister of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Minister of the CDU Volker Rühe, said last Sunday on German television that it would be little useful if countries like Austria now believe that they have to buy fighters. Better cooperation and more economical procurement policies would be more effective in terms of a common approach. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The former German Minister of Defense is right because if we know that there will be 1,900 fighter planes in Europe in 2010, it is clear that European security is not lacking in fighter aircraft. Austria should reflect on what we can afford and what it really lacks: the sanity and infantry troops trained in accordance with the requirements, including for the alpine area. We should contribute... – I understand [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Are you speaking for NATO entry now?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Are you a NATO candidate?]] Your unrest, if you do not even have a common line with your party colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In the new Europe, we should focus on what we can contribute and not focus on prestige projects. I believe that many, including in the government groups, know that this decision to acquire the fighter aircraft is not useful. Why are you not willing to withdraw from a false decision taken once? Ladies and gentlemen! There are a number of highly intelligible acts. I remember that it was the FPÖ Federal Councillor Gudenus, who has said in recent days that there is a suspicion of corruption. Or: The former FPÖ managing director, Rumpold, meant: “This is like Uganda! If you don’t show up in Austria with your suitcase, nothing will work!” At the same time, it is known that the husband of the former vice chancellor now has a well-dominated advisory assignment with an Austro-Canadian group that former Minister Reichhold has a highly-dominated contract with the same group. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then the Rudas did something too! And the Vrannitzky did something too!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! All this shows that there are inconsistencies that are obviously in need of information. I would like to support clearly what Vice-Chancellor Head said a few months ago: Let us wait for the Court of Auditors report on the procurement process, and let us then decide! – This would be much wiser to bring light into the dark, ladies and gentlemen, dear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In fact, the history of this procurement process is a very infinite history of inconsistencies and inconsistencies. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: A soup is that, a green soup!]] Let me give you a few examples. According to the invitation to tender, 24 aircraft that will secure the Austrian airspace from 2005 onwards should be purchased. That's how it was planned. Today we hear that 18 machines are to be purchased, and the first of them only come in 2007, which is only four pieces, the rest only later. However, the main reason you have always mentioned why you should buy these fighter planes was that after 2005 there should be an independent protection of the airspace. Doesn't that apply any more suddenly? Is that not contrary to the terms of the invitation to tender? Why buy a plane that you don't think should be delivered in time, but only later? You don't care about it today? Why don't you make a new call under the changed conditions? Why, although the conditions you have set are not fulfilled, are you buying these planes anyway? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is highly inconspicuous, especially when it comes to the largest financial expenditure ever made for military goods in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Secondly, They say because the Eurofighters are coming so late, we need a so-called bridge. That is, for two years military aircraft are rented by other states. You always wanted to prevent this from being done by ÖVP and FPÖ, according to what you have said so far! You said renting doesn't bring anything, you have to have your own planes! – But now you do it yourself for the years 2005 to 2007. One more thing, Minister of Defence: They do not tell us to this day what this so-called bridging solution will cost us, and they have told us that it is not possible to negotiate it at all until the purchase of the fighter aircraft has been completed. – That’s really “great”: buy first – and then negotiate the bridging costs! This, ladies and gentlemen, has absolutely nothing to do with a forward-looking policy, but it is a military and financial policy tortoise – and not anymore, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Speaking of costs – and this is the third point: The Minister of Finance has made himself famous and said: At the conclusion of this business, “every euro has been turned twice. ” Let us look at what comes out when the Minister of Finance "turns every euro twice" because the government has so far made the greatest effort to cover up the real costs of this acquisition. Last year, you announced that 24 of these aircraft will cost €1.79 billion. – Today, 18 planes cost at once, that is, six less, 1,97 billion €. – This is a most amazing change within a year! [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] This true number has become known only after having to ask in the public and in Parliament several times! The entire current operation, the cost of maintenance, is not at all taken into account, nor is the cost of the so-called interim solution. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, together, probably leads to the actual purchase price at all costs beyond €3 billion in the medium term – and for the total duration of the use of these interceptors probably beyond €4 billion! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria really has other concerns in these days than spending so much money on the purchase of combat aircraft! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They point out from the coalition that no single cent will be spent until 2007. – After this is a great performance! In 2007, the first interception hunters will come first! Has You had planned to make payments before the first interception hunters arrived, Mr. Finanzminister? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] That does not mean anything but that you want to choose a mortgage for all future governments in Austria and say goodbye to the financial responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Fourth point: They say that the costs are not so significant at all, because at least the double of the purchase amount is brought in by counter-businesses. It is alleged!, because a real set-up of compensation transactions for the total amount could not be presented until today! In the past – I remember what German Chancellor Schüssel said last year – you meant in the past that the takeover would not have to be carried out by the state, but would be carried out highly professionally, stored and carried on by an economic platform, which would also finance a large part of it, requiring the legal basis. Ladies and gentlemen! This so-called economic platform, which does not exist now, nor their financial participation, was nothing but a campaigning gag and a trick, and it has led the Austrian population around the nose! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Existing, exists!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My impression, my veneration Ladies and gentlemen, you want to buy these fighter planes literally at any price. Most inconsistency is why you are opposed to all objections – even against objections from your own ranks! – on this question are so stubborn. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: How did the asparagus taste?]] Do you know what the people in Austria are most excited about? We have problems in financing pensions, there are cuts in the school sector, no additional resources for universities, we need to talk about financing the health system, and there are a number of pressing problems – but this government has nothing more to do than acquire these fighter planes! This is the completely wrong way for Austria, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, which you are taking here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You have to imagine this: The people who meet and who ask the question today among 40-year-olds: Will our pensions really be reduced by 30 or 35 percent?, the people in the businesses who ask themselves the question whether, if they are going to retire next year, their pensions will be reduced by 15 percent, the people who are looking for work and hope that there will finally be an economic upturn, these people in Austria will receive on their concerns from you the answer that you are planning the purchase of combat aircraft! [[Abg. Großruck: If it goes after the SPÖ, now!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That is what you want!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Do you not have the impression that you are far away from the concerns of the people of Austria and are removed and that it would finally be time to reverse?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Who was on holiday in the flood?]] It was only yesterday that a study by the Economic Research Institute was published, and the newspaper “The Press” headlined: “Austria fights against the descent”. This study lists a number of problems that we must solve if we want Austria to continue to be a wealthy country in the future. This study describes as one of the main problems of the fact that in Austria, in the field of science and research, training, public investment is far too little to cope with those economies in Europe that are at the forefront of economic growth today. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Germany, for example!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It would be urgent to address these future issues of Austria – and not to spend the money on these fighter planes, which we do not really need! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you think European, you will find no military reason for buying these fighters. If you think about the future of the Austrian federal army and what needs to be in the foreground, you can also see no reason for buying these interception hunters. There are no real reasons for buying these fighter planes out of economic and location policy considerations, but especially when you see the special situation of Austria today, the challenges and problems we face, you know that you need these interceptors all the less. That is why I would say, dearly, Ladies and gentlemen: When “The Press” Titles: “Austria is fighting against the descent,” it is not good if this federal government is fighting for the purchase of fighter aircraft. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties: Stop You're this crazy deal of buying Eurofighters before it's too late! Let us turn to the more important things!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e3292	To answer the question, the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State, Mr Platter, spoke. The speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e3313	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Before I come to answer the questions, I think it is necessary to make a declaration on airspace surveillance in general. Dear ladies and gentlemen! After the fall of the Iron Curtain, the security situation in Austria and in the rest of Europe has changed in principle. Considering today's threat, particularly with regard to international terrorism, it is seen that airspace surveillance is essential for a sovereign state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is therefore clear, ladies and gentlemen: A safe Austria needs active airspace monitoring! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To get it to the point: Protection and security are the highest good for a country! This protection and security for every individual citizen must be guaranteed not only on the ground but, of course, in the air! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Eder: As in kindergarten!]] Ladies and gentlemen! For active airspace surveillance, two components were needed: on the one hand, a radar system capable of monitoring our airspace, which is also capable of identifying unregistered, i.e. illegal aircraft, and, on the other hand, – and that is particularly important – of course modern airspace surveillance aircraft capable of rising, gaining height and, on the other hand, the necessary measures can be put in place. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If a suspect, if an illegal aircraft is in our airspace, a modern airspace surveillance aircraft – depending on the situation of a threat – has the possibility to carry out various intrusion measures. [[Call the SPÖ:Where?]] First of all, it has to identify a suspicious plane, document it, but also photograph it. Secondly, there must be the possibility that this suspicious aircraft may also be ‘accompanied’ and also neighboring air forces. [[Abg. Eder: I haven't heard such a thing for a long time!]] Thirdly, there must be the possibility that a suspicious aircraft can also be intercepted. [[Abg. Eder: How's that going? Shoot or what?]] Ladies and gentlemen, one more thing, so that seriousness comes into this debate, which I would like to see very seriously, would be necessary, because of course it must also be possible to carry out a use of arms if there is an immediate risk to the Austrians' body and life – and if there is a risk to the Republic of Austria in particular due to a serious terrorist attack. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] – Of course, we all wish that this situation should never occur. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] All of this, ladies and gentlemen, means that we need active airspace surveillance to protect and protect every individual citizen, and all of this is essential if Austria is to be part of its state territory – and this includes the airspace! – want to have the only saying. Therefore, in all clarity: Austria is proud to be a sovereign state, and therefore Austria must also be able to secure its airspace independently and without foreign help. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – Or would you think, ladies and gentlemen, that we should leave the protection of our airspace to other states?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Mr Gusenbauer is of this opinion!]] The answer can only be a clear, clear one: We have to secure our own airspace! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Regarding the situation in connection with the Iraq war: All of a sudden, everything got quiet! How glad we were that our airspace was secured! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Eder: Who writes such a speech?- Oh, my God!]] There is therefore no serious safety policy alternative to the procurement of airspace surveillance aircraft! I assume that there should actually be a broad consensus here in this House, a broad consensus because there are various decisions: in the Council of State Defense, in the Federal Government, starting from 1977 to 2003. At that time, the SPÖ was leading, and I therefore assume that this broad consensus is still in place today. Well, ladies and gentlemen, specifically on the procurement process: First: The Ministry of Defence, under my predecessor Herbert Scheibner, has been selected for the procurement process, which has been successful in recent years, for decades, with a high degree of transparency. Secondly, A 33-member evaluation committee has dealt with the situation and has assessed the three offers – F 16, SAAB grips and Eurofighter – sensitively and accurately. There is a clear recommendation from the evaluation commission to the Federal Government that the Eurofighter, because the best bidder, should be awarded the award. Thirdly, ==References== The decision-making process in the Federal Government was also carried out on July 22, 2002. On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the following here and today. I would like to thank my predecessor Herbert Scheibner for his preliminary work. [[Abg. Eder: He was still good!]] From my point of view, everything was done correctly! [[Call the SPÖ: It was even better!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out all the accusations made in the direction of incorrectness or concealment to the hardest! Dear Herbert Scheibner, thank you for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, to the individual steps I have taken in connection with this procurement process. It is very, very important to me that this procurement is clean, flawless and correct. I also had sufficient information, because it was important to me that legal certainty was given. That is why I have commissioned two independent experts to deal with this situation. Mr Aicher and Professor of the University of Holoubek. These two experts have noted the following: The procedure has up to now been impeccable and lawful, and the reduction from 24 to 18 pieces is impeccable and lawful, provided there is no increase in prices. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: And what does Krejci say?]] – In reality, it is like this: Fortunately, there was an excellent price reduction. Therefore, the various negotiations continued, and a week ago we were able to achieve this excellent outcome of the negotiations : [[Calls for Greens]] 18 Eurofighter pieces – without logistics, without system, without training, but with financing costs – to €1.337 billion. If you calculate the logistics, the training of the pilots and the system, that's exactly €1,969 billion. This is an excellent result, compared to the decision-making in July 2002 a negotiation success of over €200 million! – Karl-Heinz Grasser, thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The delivery conditions are clear: In 2007, four Eurofighters will come, in 2008 twelve, in 2009 two. Budget effectiveness is given from 2007 onwards, as it had already been promised. As far as the bridging and entry-level package is concerned, I will then give a specific opinion in the answer to the question. Ladies and gentlemen! This procurement process was also supported by the National Security Council, and it was recommended that this procurement be completed. Finally, I would like to say to the general part concerning: The Eurofighter aircraft is a European device. The Eurofighter is produced in Europe. In the future, 620 Eurofighters will be in use in Europe. The Eurofighter is that aircraft which is above all other products in terms of rising performance, acceleration and speed. He's technically excellent. It is particularly important that he has two engines, which is of particular importance for the safety of the pilots. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to come to the answer to the individual questions. Question 1: I can point out that, in order to allow the Federal Act on the purchase of airspace surveillance aircraft to enter into force within the binding period of the supplier, an entry was necessary at that time. The requirement of a legal regulation is determined by § 45 of the Federal Budget Act. On question 2: As I have already pointed out several times, an accompanying examination has been carried out by the relevant departments of my department. There is legal clarity about the admissibility of the procurement process. The audit by the Court of Auditors shall be carried out in the form of the prior examination of completed cases of conduct. The accompanying control shall not be permitted. A further expectation of the signing of the contract would result in the time gap in airspace monitoring assuming an irresistible degree. I have made every effort to check the regularity of the procedure. I have called on the Internal Revision to examine closely. In particular, I have commissioned legal opinions on the issues raised by you. In addition, the Financial Procuratorship has also carried out this audit. And that seems very important to me: All four bodies have reached the conclusion that both the procedure itself and the substantive decisions have been taken in accordance with the law. By the way, I refer to my introductory remarks. Questions 3 and 4: Should I be aware of the suspicions of irregularities, I will immediately pass on to the prosecutor's office. Question 5: Comments on comments by third parties do not constitute an object of enforcement within the meaning of Article 22 of the Federal Constitutional Act. [[Abg. Eder: That was your coalition partner!]] I therefore ask for an understanding of the fact that I distance myself from answering this question. Despite this, I can say that a new supply recovery would lead to an unaccountable delay in the post-purchasing process. – By the way, I refer to my answers already given. On question 6: As a general rule, SAAB’s letter could not be taken into account in the course of the chosen procedure for the free movement of goods in competition, because the period of duty had expired. Tenders submitted after that date were therefore invalid and not to be taken into account. As regards the price information submitted by SAAB after the tendering period, it should be noted that the price reductions claimed there are in no way comprehensible. Questions 7 and 8: The total price of €1,969 billion includes the cost of the aircraft, financing costs, training costs, logistics, simulator and armament. The operating costs cannot be precisely represented for 30 years due to various factors – such as production hours, deployment profiles, technological development – but are limited to just under € 50 million per anno. The 1,337 billion € mentioned at the beginning of Question 8 includes the pure purchase price of aircraft, including financing costs. The €1,969 billion mentioned at the end of the question also includes the required system costs, such as the costs for logistics and training. The necessary budget – this is important! – are provided separately by the Federal Ministry of Finance. On Question 9: The funds for the Eurofighter operation beyond the current operating effort of the S 35 Draken are made available separately by the Federal Ministry of Finance. On Question 10: The need for airspace surveillance is not a question of the neutral status of the Republic of Austria, but a question of ensuring the sovereignty of a state due to the membership of the airspace to the State territory. If a State does not use the appropriate means to control its territory or to exercise the power of state, then the State itself is in question from the point of view of international law. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The core task of complete monitoring of the airspace can also be carried out with a reduction of 24 to 18 pieces. A rental with the producer company for use is at least more expensive than a purchase. A rental of friendly air forces is only possible for bridging in a short time. It is important that Austrian pilots control the Austrian airspace in airplanes with Austrian sovereignty mark. [[Call the SPÖ: This is maculature!]] Question 11: Exploration is currently taking place with the Air Force Chiefs of the European Eurofighter Operations States. A bridging solution is feasible. Specific negotiations with the operator countries can only be started after conclusion of the contract. It is very important that a serious number be announced here. If you now disclose facts and facts without the concrete negotiations being conducted, that is not feasible. The first step is the signing of the contract, and the second step is finally that the negotiations are being conducted. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The security of Austria – that is very important to me – cannot and must not be the ball of politics and subject of political hack! It must be our common goal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'm really calling here: Let us find an objective consensus that goes beyond all party borders when it comes to Austria's defence policy! Let us bear the responsibility, even if it is not popular! Security needs responsibility! [[Long lasting lively applause with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[15:37]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e3669	Before entering the debate, I shall inform the House of the following: Deputies Mag. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues have, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the use of an investigative committee on the operations relating to the procurement of Eurofighter fighter fighters. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck: The Kogler is supposed to be examined by himself!]] The debate on this has not been called for. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote shall take place after completion of the agenda, i.e. after the debate on this urgent question has been carried out. We are now entering the debate on the urgent question. You know: 10 minutes per first speaker per group; then more speakers are given the floor. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e3705	Mr President. High house! Of course, you have the opportunity to lubricate a little in the library if you wait 15 hours for the round table to produce a result. – Unfortunately, he did not deliver any results. It was all for nothing, as it seems. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But there was a book in my hand that I would like to recommend to the government members as official government literature; it is from Sebastian Brant, by the way, a bestseller from 1494. [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you have your own ideas too?]] It has the title ‘The Narrowship’. – You made the call at the right moment. Mr. Federal Chancellor, there is a chapter, that is, “By attachments”. I'm allowed to quote: “We think that no one needs him, and think that he alone is so wise, Knowed enough in all things; He often goes astray on the same paths, device even slightly on wild alleys, on which home will not be. Woe to him who falls and is alone! To heretics were often wrong, the right Tadel did not teach, leaning on own art, that they gained fame and favor.” I wonder where there is now fame and favor in the survey values that this government currently has, namely, the worst since it has existed, after it has decided to implement pension reductions after it has decided to make hourly cuts in schools after it has decided not to re-enter tax reform, no tax relief, and after it has decided to continue to put on the pressure screw against the Austrians. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Where there are glory and favor, I wonder! It is rather an expression of attachment that you believe that only this one way is the way in the interest of Austria. It's just the other way around! He damages Austria economically, socially and democratically! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Is this also from 1490?]] I think it was right to ask for a special meeting here on the purchase of the interceptors and to call them up because it turns out that this is probably about 70 billion schilling if you calculate the entire life of these planes. The operating costs are likely to amount to 700, 800 million schillings per year – and you have kept this to us. I just remember which number salad you have been presented all the time, so that at the end, Mr and Mrs Österreicher did not know what the real numbers were. This was like a number lottery under the motto: Everything is possible. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You don't know yourself! That's the problem!]] It seems that everything is really possible. The application first stands at xxx, then 1,336 billion €. Suddenly, Mr Finanzminister, who has still corrected himself in the press conference, says €1,969 billion. Then, suddenly, the bill amounts to 3,153 billion €. I ask you: What's the real number now? Finally, this must also be paid for by our children and children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] If it doesn't matter to you, Mrs Fekter, then this is your business. But represent this once in your constituency! Sit down! All ÖVP and FPÖ members may stand in their constituencies and say: Yes, we are for stress, we are for pension cuts, we are still taking part in many rounds of tables that do not result, and we want to throw out the money for the interception hunters! Sit down! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then the Minister of Finance says that it is a success in the negotiations. I say it is a change, because suddenly a number of things have become another number. I'll tell you something. What does someone who hears need 24 of these supermodern combat planes? What does he think? Suddenly you only need 18. And then it comes out that only four of the 18 are armed. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Didn't you watch out?]] 14 are armed after the standard World War 1 with onboard guns, and only four have the modern armament. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This has nothing to do with shooting!]] Now I am lucky that the “standard” on page 21 has provided me with an important information. There was one such innumerable “Eurofighter Typhoon Special. ” You should also read this so that you know what you decide all the time. It says inside, the Eurofighter is 75 percent of the fighters winner – in the simulator! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Great performance! This can only be in the simulator, because in reality there is no such thing as him, but anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] This is the title: ‘Eurofighter, Typhoon’ – A winner in the air fight’. It also says: ‘Arrangement of work in the Alliance brings cost reduction’. – A political article of the Eurofighter Consortium EADS, in which we are told what the future European security structure will look like. It says that in the future there will be 250 interceptors, that is, Eurofighters, and it is gratifying that the Austrians have 18 of them. That'll fit in properly. – So it’s not just airspace surveillance in Austria, but the follow-up instruction by the EADS group that sells these aircraft, in the “standard” tells us it’s about something quite different. All of Europe should have these planes so that they can be exchanged a little if anything is up and they need to be exchanged. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Mr. Gusenbauer asked!]] Then give it to me openly: These war and combat planes are for operations that go far beyond airspace defense! That's the truth! They're debilitating the population! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] To ensure that it does not work inhumanely, there is an article in the “standard” that describes the life of a Eurofighter test pilot. His name is Chris Worning (45), he likes to play golf and ride ski. “The sporty Eurofighter pilot finds the balance to his strenuous job while playing golf and skiing. And, of course, at home where, besides his wife, the three dirty house cats also welcome him.” – So that a little sympathy for the plane comes so that a connection between plane and musk cats is somehow made. This is a lot of money – an entire page in the “standard”. At the same time today in the “Press” – a little reading would not harm you either – an interesting article on page 5: “EADS offer to VP-grands”. [[Abg. Scheibner: Reading is too little, Mr. Cot!]] - Oh, I'm telling myself, what's that? – A letter was sent to the ÖVP chief of Salzburg, Mr Schausberger, in which they offered their help. That would interest me: How many letters are there? How many ÖVP national party chairmen have received similar letters? And what kind of help did it offer so that a little bit of willingness, you need Eurofighter, is even more increased? [[Abg. Grossruck: Ask Mr Marizzi! He knows how it is!]] That is why we call for an investigation committee to get light into the dark once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I know you're going across Parliament. For you from the government parties, Parliament is an annoying interruption of the enforcement process. [[Abg. Neudeck: Is there a press service summary?]] That's how you do it. She's not interested in popular desire either. 624 000 have signed the anti-war equipment, anti-Eurofighter people's desires. – You don’t care, it won’t be treated there at all. All of this is not an issue of discussion for you. The Austrians are trying to explain to you that with this business you are making counter-businesses of a value of 4 billion. – These are air operations, which has been discussed before. There were three quarters of the shops not fixed at all. Some companies do not know that they are on the list of counter-businesses. That's the truth. [[Abg. Scheibner: Read something from the book!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Your colleague Androsch saw this quite differently!]] In the Bartenstein Ministry, it was even necessary to set up a Commission that controls that counter-businesses will not disappear, so that businesses that are running anyway will suddenly be presented as counter-businesses, so that the Eurofighter and the 70 billion schilling that will be spent in the next few years will also make Austrians tasty in view of their cuts and burdens. This is the policy that you are currently making and which is to be deeply condemned, which is therefore combined with what I said earlier, with the only four armed planes, a shield-citizen's stroke. I must tell you that if you continue this policy, then you do not have to wonder if Your survey values are getting worse and worse. I am pleased that this trend should continue quietly until the election day, which is known to be a payday. If you're sitting on the high Ross, and if you believe you're smarter than anyone else, if you really believe that, I'll bring you a last quote from Sebastian Brant's "Narren ship": “Many fools fell high, the way where there was none...” It was dedicated to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e3952	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Molterer. Speaking time 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e3970	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Cap, you should read other pages in the newspapers, perhaps the ads. It is quite possible that in some cabarets in Austria places are free to look for cabaretists. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Cap! You have with this way of doing the Evidence of your political understanding and also evidence of how social democracy is dealing with the most important tasks of the state in the meantime. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make this urgent request, which was made in the meantime for the x-th time, where the arguments are the same for the x-th time, but because of the x-te repetition do not become more correct, so I would like to use this urgent request to remove the difference between what we have in understanding of the state and what you present to opposition populism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I think it is the most important task of policy to provide a strong state. It is the primary task of responsible politicians to ensure a strong state in the interests of citizens. And, of course, a strong state is a powerful and performance-oriented education system. A strong state is, of course, a necessary investment in the future, for example in the field of research and development. And, of course, a powerful state also includes the necessary investment in infrastructure. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Why?]] A strong state is, of course, one of the most important tasks of policy to provide security for citizens, for example through the necessary changes in social systems, so that citizens who are sick will find a health system that is performance-oriented and allows all the same access in the future. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, a system that also helps people in the event of unemployment, and a system that guarantees safe and sustainable care in the future. That is why we are making this policy, and we are making these reforms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I assume that the round table of the Federal Chancellor, who in the meantime made significant progress in three long rounds of negotiations, will not leave the negotiating visa, trade unions, ladies and gentlemen. I assume and appeal that the good tradition of Austria will continue: Dialogue, negotiation, instead of demonstrating on the streets, leaving the principles of democratic decisions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One strong state, Mr Gusenbauer, is of course also the willingness to ensure the necessary financial resources for the security of citizens inside – against violence, against crime – but also externally – against military threats. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is the most important task of a responsible policy, to say yes to military national defence, not only to land, but of course also to the air! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is not a question of whether the European Union is in a position to take action in this field, but of whether it is in the interests of the European Union or the Member States. No to say to the military state defense and to the federal army, he leaves the foundations of state responsibility. You are also giving up your long-standing tradition as a responsible party of military security, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to remind you that in 1984, for example, your then Federal Chancellor asked the question: Is this a clear yes from the head of government to buy the interception hunters, as they say once in a military way? has replied: This is a clear yes, because we are obliged to comply with national law and also international law. – Sinowatz has said that, ladies and gentlemen, and this is still true today! We stand by it, but you say goodbye to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I remind you, for example, of the government statement by Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrannitzky in 1987. He said: "The Federal Government is therefore committed to armed neutrality as a contribution to peacekeeping and preservation in Europe. The basis for this is the national defence plan, to which the federal army must be extended accordingly. The Federal Government is committed to the military system and the concept of defensive space defense on land and in the air.” – Vranitzky government statement in 1987. He insisted, you say goodbye, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Or: I think of the SPÖ spokesperson Gaál, who declared in 1996: If we are in favour of effective national defence and we are talking about an active neutrality policy, then action must also be taken. This also includes airspace monitoring. – SPÖ Deputy Gaál, 1996. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Or, for example, in 1996: The SPÖ was at the time for the purchase of the Dragons. We are still on the surveillance aircraft today, says Gaál 1996. – What happened in the meantime, Mr Gaál? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think that this development clearly shows, Mr Gusenbauer – and this difference has to be worked out – that: Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, you have agreed on state responsibility and have gone into opposition populism. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You live in the past! You don't have a look for the future!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Principal Teacher! That's ridiculous!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We do not play security against education, but we guarantee security and education! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] We do not play safety against old-age care, but we guarantee safety and care for old-age people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, do not play safety against research location, but we guarantee security and research offensive. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You don't guarantee anything, absolutely nothing!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a responsible party, as a party that writes “future with responsibility” on its flags, we are of course also prepared to take responsibility for security, responsibility for military defence and thus also for airspace surveillance. I thank Martin Bartenstein and Karl-Heinz Grasser for the excellent negotiation of counter-businesses, and I do not want to thank the former Minister of Defence Herbert Scheibner for the excellent preparation. [[Call the SPÖ: Where are they?]] This Federal Government is responsible for the future of the country!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4191	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 10 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4233	Mr Gusenbauer: Better a carrier rocket, which is still modified than a pipe recorder that has finally crashed. This is the case in view of your policy. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer, as you have already urged the call for interim work, I shall start with your speech. I have already experienced urgent inquiries on the subject of interception hunters here in various functions. Mostly you were the founder. Once you even had to be reminded by the President that it was about the interception hunters because you talked about something quite different. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Today you have said everything possible, and at the end of the day you have become honest and have said what you really think about this special session and the whole debate. You said: “Let us turn to the more important things!” Mr Gusenbauer! [[He-Rufe and congratulation with the liberals.]] I'm just wondering why there's another special meeting with the interceptors today. – I would have expected you to have the pensions so important to us – they are important – that you request a special meeting on pension reform. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] If we had been, I tell you, a liberal in the opposition, we would have seen that a special meeting will give us another opportunity to discuss the pension reform – the most important issue at present. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But you do not understand that, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gusenbauer, you are therefore bringing back your famous subject, namely the interception hunters. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Soon you will have the opportunity to do so as an opposition! Come on! Soon you will have the opportunity to join your policy in the opposition!]] What does your urgent inquiry look like? – It says: ‘Confusion game for the Eurofighters’. Mr Gusenbauer! Perhaps one of your follow-up speakers – from Colleague Cap, we only have quotes from newspapers and writings from the 15. At the end of the century, which was very interesting, but not really informative – the confusion of the Eurofighters was clear. [[Abg. Eder: You didn't understand! It was too complicated for you!]] What is the confusion about your line in security policy, Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? We hear in this respect – even in the urgent request we can read this – that no airspace monitoring is necessary. There's no threat. – That’s very interesting. I am just wondering why your group, just a few weeks ago, demanded vehemently from the Austrian Federal Government that, in the light of the US' preparatory work in the course of the Iraq war, it block the Austrian airspace and monitor it, Mr Gusenbauer! How can you respond to your legitimate concerns if you do not have the opportunity to do so if one cannot but cannot monitor them, namely, on the spot, Mr Klubobmann? – This is a “confusion about the Eurofighters”. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But the confusion continues: They say, on the one hand, that no airspace surveillance is necessary, on the other, that it may be necessary to monitor airspace, but not with aircraft. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That's what we've heard. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: with balloons!]] There are plenty of radar and steering weapons. I quote the predecessor of Klubobmann Gusenbauer and Cap, Mr Kostelka, who said there were plenty of radar and steering weapons. That means, let's take a look. Aha, an illegal plane! and shoot it – bag! - off. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Is this your line in airspace surveillance? – This is not ours! A confusion in the SPÖ's security policy! [[Abg. May. Worm: You're so happy to photograph!]] Then say elsewhere: We want airspace surveillance, including with airplanes, but not with our own, but with strangers. Others can take it with them. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: We do it now!]] We are not doing this, because a transitional solution, which is unfortunately necessary because you have postponed the decision on this airspace surveillance for years, as in other areas, cannot be a permanent solution. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This transitional solution is only permitted and is only supported by us if the aircraft with Austrian sovereignty badges and Austrian pilots fly and Austria makes the decision on how these airspace surveillance aircraft are used. We do not want foreign pilots with foreign aircraft to monitor and take over Austrian territory under foreign command, just as you seem to suggest by saying that others could do that for us. – A confusion in security policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But there is another opinion in the area of social democrats: already own interception hunters, but not these. If you don't think so, you wouldn't be able to request a new invitation to tender. Then say it here! [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: The Princehorn demands that!]] You will not write proposals and demands of President Prinzhorn in your urgent questions! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: If they are reasonable!]] So far. I hope you are not yet in your intelligibility that you will have to accept all the suggestions and statements made by free and public policy makers in order to bring your programming together. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: If they are reasonable!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: If they are reasonable!]] What is true now, Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer, about airspace surveillance? Is it necessary or not? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What do you have against meaningful proposals?]] Is it necessary to carry out with its own or with other aircraft, or only with steering weapons and radars? And if it's supposed to be its own, it's only about the question of type, or is that a question of principle? – To have You can now give us information if you are already talking about a confusion in airspace surveillance as part of a urgent request. I say one thing to you very clearly: Our line and the line of the liberals is contrary to your line that we have also acted as an opposition party in the field of security policy for a national consensus. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Is lazy!]] You always say a yes to airspace surveillance with your own planes when you're in the government. When the liberals were in the opposition – and we had many differences as well – we also stood for airspace surveillance. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] We have – although we know that it is not popular – always intervened for active airspace monitoring. You've only been for so long as you've been in the government, now you're suddenly against it. [[Abg. May. Worm: You've played something else!]] That is why you are not really concerned with security policy, nor are you concerned with pensions, Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer, otherwise you would have made a special meeting on pensions, but it is about making your mind and playing the security of the country against other important tasks. [[Abg. May. Worm: posterted was something else!]] I'll tell you: Whether government or opposition, it is not responsible for any political group if you run such a policy as you do here! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I no longer need to prepare for such debates, I just need to listen to your speeches and analyze your requests. [[Call at the SPÖ: You can see that!]] You said if you think European, you don't have to catch hunters. We think European, but in security policy we also think Austrian – and that is important to us! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As long as we confess that Austria is a sovereign state, a non-constitutional state, Mr Gusenbauer – I believe we agree that this is important and should be the same in the future – as long as the conditions of the Constitution apply, namely that in peace, the sovereignty of Austria can be defended on land and in the air with its own means. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That would be so easy!]] And this is just about airplanes, as we are now getting them, Mr Gusenbauer, and not by other means, as you might believe in your cabins or elsewhere. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] If you already have a confusion about the price, the budget burden and everything else... – On the suspicion of corruption? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What do you say about corruption suspicion?]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What do you say?]] I can tell you one thing to suspect corruption: There was a lot of ads, most of them anonymous! Did you see a result of these ads, did you hear anything happened? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The accusation comes from your ranks!]] The Court of Auditors – you said that the tender criteria were unclear – examined this and issued a positive witness. All internal and external audits were positive. It is even stated: in contrast to earlier procurements. You were still in the government. And I'm always wondering about such accusations. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: These were your people!]] What kind of experience do you have to experience in such large-scale acquisitions that you immediately put any suspicions into the room? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I do not have such experience, Mr Gusenbauer! For me, it is about carrying out a good, comprehensible project for Austria in the sense of the security of our citizens. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What do you say to Gudenus?]] When it comes to pensions, it has nothing to do with safety. I ask you and also President Vergestnich: They have said that too little has been negotiated or that it is not a parliamentarianism. Is that not a sign of parliamentarianism that we are here in Parliament for hour at hour in the committees, that we are considering various proposals that we are not yet entering with fixed and completed applications – so to speak: Taste’s and vote on it! – but that we want this reform to develop, to develop positively? [[Abg. Oillinger: There are no applications! There are missiles, but no applications! You don't even read your own applications!]] The fact that there was no agreement at the social partners' summit is also due to the fact that today's special session would otherwise have had no basis at all, nor would the threats with strikes have any basis either. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the first demonstration has fallen into the water, you need at least one day to present yourself. These are the true backgrounds! I can tell you: We stand for a socially just, forward-looking pension reform, but also for the prevention of future generations in the field of security policy. That's our responsibility! It'd be nice if you'd confess to that too.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4635	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Kogler. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4683	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's really time to get some things right after these beautiful - speaking sermons that we had to do about ourselves now. I'll tell you: If, on the one hand, you are stratifying social security and, on the other hand, carrying out this arms acquisition, the most necessary and expensive, then it has become really clear what politics is: not only the art of the feasible, but the simple handling of what is done or neglected. They want to reduce pensions and call the whole pension reform – I say yes: You have learned this from the Minister of Finance, and on the other hand you want to make absolutely unnecessary and excessive arms expenditure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] We want something else: We want to save in the latter area and actually implement a pension reform on the other hand, but we also deserve the name “safety”. That's the difference! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] There is nothing to help us, Mr Molterer, if you are again apologizing the "roads". You have a real road phobia! You're wondering where you're going home at all during the night. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Fly with the plane!]] Those who demonstrate leave the basic consensus, says Molterer. I have to tell you the truth: Whoever says such a thing has been away from that sworn basic consensus for a long time, he has been somewhere else. [[Abg. Oils: Bad, something like that in here!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I do not want to blame him directly, because I cannot believe that he thinks so, but such a quote would fit elsewhere, namely in a form of state which we have already had in Austria and which we hope to reject together. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Don't say anything! That would be an order call!]] There this saying is home – if you are already intervening from the FPÖ. Orientation yourself regarding your home concept, something is still necessary in this respect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Let us therefore deal with what it really is about, namely the procurement of combat aircraft and the operation in this context. I'll tell you: These fighter planes are indispensable and even unfinancing for our budget. The way in which you want to push this through is irresponsible and unfrozen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] That's the thesis you need to prove now, because you can intercede as much as you want. The whole thing continues to happen under the motto of smearing and dizziness. There is also nothing to help you by a relatively credible Minister of Defense, who has now jumped in after Scheibner has thrown away the unloved child in good time. Even if you are constantly setting aside any advice you would have made now: The process remains deeply in need of information. And I am going to explain this to you now because you did not give a single answer to it. And sympathy is too little in this sense of responsibility – with confidence said. Firstly, the risk situation. Your own investigations – as you have not quoted – from the Federal Army and the Ministry of Defence assume that the risk situation has long changed and there are no more conventional hazards. That must have some consequence! It can't be said that we're just now ordering those combat planes that are suitable for war operations. What does this have to do with Austrian airspace surveillance? – Explain this once! [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't want to know!]] They order warplanes – Citation Minister of Finance – that can operate with air-ground missiles. They order warplanes that can operate in international operations, and at the same time you want to accuse the others that they should be most likely to take care of neutrality when they speak against it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] You do not care about neutrality, you create aircraft that are against the security interests of Austria and that violate the call for tender in accordance with your procurement process. That's what's added! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Originally, at the beginning of the whole process, the 24 fighter planes should have cost 1.4 billion. Later, the Council of Ministers' presentation, which Mr Scheibner was still bringing in, was already admitted: Well, rather 1.8 billion for 24 aircraft, completely “naked”, without system costs. That was the first cost explosion. And now there's the flood. Don't keep telling people the numbers wrong! Explain to us why 24 aircraft were originally cheaper than now the 18! - That's supposed to be an approval? – Hops You can do this again, perhaps another minister can do it! This is really a marketing abuse of flood victims, and together we should reject this very slowly! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I have not yet received a flood offering that seems to have anything from the procurement of your luxury fighter jets. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have always made the connection!]] In fact, it was about that you were not able to buy 24 Eurofighters around this price presented by you! That was clear in July! That is why the accusation of dizziness is justified. It smells out of all cracks, no matter where you look, after a shift, as far as this awarding process is concerned. You should listen more carefully and not just shake your head. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What do you spell out of your hat?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] In the course of your process, a price package has been specified, with which in truth the 24 pieces have not been possible, but only 18 and that is why you listed this dirt. And at the end it turns out that not even that is possible! You can't cover everything with these costs, there are always additional costs. Next point: the so-called interim solution. The interim solution was originally required. They have organised an invitation to tender which has requested this, and suddenly it is gone. Why? – Eurofighter is not able to deliver the aircraft in 2003/04. [[Abg. Scheibner: You always forget half!]] – Yes, I forget half, but I say the right half after you always talk about the other one. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Eurofighter is not at all able to deliver! That's an award-making flaw that's going on, colleague Scheibner! Two pieces would have been able to deliver Eurofighter, and now you have to go for any intermediate solution that becomes more expensive than the actual solution. You already admitted that to the committee, Minister of State! Of course, this rental process is more expensive. Yes, do you think it gives us anything in this matter? – If this is the case, I really congratulate you very much on it, but I am still waiting for it. [[Abg. Scheibner: We should rent it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Gusenbauer said we should rent it!]] Now we are the next cost explosion factor: operating costs. [[Abg. Scheibner: The SPÖ said we should rent it, that's cheaper!]] It is a good thing that the Minister of Finance is here. He should finally explain to us in which ominous budget items the operating costs were recorded if they were not recorded in the defense budget. Of course, the military have had the right to say that costs a lot of the Dragon flight operating system. Someone else has to pay for this when the Eurofighter is pushed to the eye. This was a political and not a military decision. Now let us know, Minister of State, that this means that the operating costs or at least parts of them are no longer included in the defence budget. What kind of budgetary policy is that? Where's the budget transparency? What is a miraculous increase in money? Is the Federal Chancellor's economic platform suddenly going to hit? Is there money somewhere? Where does it come from? Please explain to us, and don't just send carrier missiles from which nothing turns out. You are not even able to enter the purchase price in your applications. It has been spoken of as a matter of fact. Contaminate: xx million €, that's the state of the debate. That is why, I believe, we have quite rightly interrupted this absurd - in this form absurd - budget committee until you are finally able by the government to put the relevant requests on the table. You still don't know what it costs! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Their cost-benefit analysis, which has always been spoken of here, and the objective evaluation procedure, can only be rejected. There are significant military officers who have made the following point of view in their files: that due to the lower purchase and operating costs, another product would have to be preferred. - Don't tell me! You also have the right to do so because the advantage of the Eurofighter offer is only because you provide a nine-year form of financing. There is no best bidder Eurofighter at all! There is a form of financing, which I think you have wrongfully influenced the award decision. And now it turns out that EADS advertises that a completely different financing plan is envisaged: ==References====External links== But you always explain to us, from 2007 onwards will be paid. How does that fit in? You said the contract was concluded. Minister! It smells like dizziness. Please clarify this, and don't come back to me with the counter-businesses – should my colleague Bartenstein do any facilities here now to talk about an internet platform again! [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] He is supposed to put the old counter-businesses that have been supposed to exist for 15 years on the Internet once before the next mishap is opened. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You fear the truth!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The Federal Chancellor did well to clarify his campaigning gag – I do not want to say election camp flights; a committee of inquiry would be held in Germany for such a purpose – and to say what this is supposed to mean. That does not exist, and the counter-actions that are announced will not exist in this form either. This only serves to spread sand to the people. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] We want to bring to the attention of the population – that is my final sentence – a motion for a resolution, namely those who ensure that their signatures were not in vain. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: The Federal Government...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4958	Deputies! Your speaking time is over. Perhaps one of your colleagues can make the request. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is agreed!]] [[In the case of the Greens and the SPÖ for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. May. Kogler.]] Mr President, I should like to thank In addition, I would ask the Green Group to make the request to the Bureau as it is not yet available. - Now he's being presented. Another member of the government, Mr Bartenstein, will now be speaking. For him a speaking time of 10 minutes has been agreed. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4996	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Deputies! If, in the last few minutes, you have strapped the words "smooth", "smite" and "swivel", then this may seem to be just as bad as a call for order by the President, but on behalf of the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Defence and also in my own name, I would like to turn these accusations back to the most energetic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Those who operate with such precepts prove that there is little to be said about this; this seems to be the case throughout this debate on the occasion of the special session of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler! You just said I'd come to you with the counter-businesses. I do not come to you with the counter-businesses, but I am very happy to see Austria's people, who can follow this debate on the subject of counter-businesses. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This is not a press conference! This is a parliamentary debate!]] It is now true that military procurement operations around the world are accompanied by counter-businesses. You don't necessarily like that, but you should make the most of it, and that's how we keep it. We follow international practices, and we have made the counter-business contract for the purchase of the 18 Eurofighter Typhoon as optimal as possible. This is a significant volume, ladies and gentlemen. With a counter-business volume of around €4 billion – or almost 60 billion Schilling – it is by far the largest counter-business volume ever available to Austria's economy, and we're going to pack this opportunity in the kick. This is a huge potential for Austria's economy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: Is this an advertisement?]] This is about orders, about deliveries, about jobs, about direct investment in Austria's economy, about technology transfer. From my point of view, this is also about regional dispersal. I would like counter-businesses in Austria to be spread as widely as possible to the federal states. I am particularly concerned with the appropriate participation of the medium-sized economy. There should be business for the big ones, but also for the small and medium-sized ones in this country, who are the carriers of prosperity and innovation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] When this volume of €4 billion is processed over EADS, the suppliers of the Eurofighters, within the next 15 years, this will be – and that is not what I did, but a very renowned French journalist, Joëlle Stolz, in the newspaper "Le Monde" a few months ago – the "entry ticket into the club of the high technology of Europe". – That’s it! EADS, a renowned company, has 60 percent market share in aerospace technology in Europe. The Airbus is manufactured in the field of EADS, DaimlerChrysler is one of the main owners of EADS. This is a large, wide-ranging high-tech company. Many Austrian companies and many employees will benefit from these counter-businesses and from EADS. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, it was particularly important not only to speak of 15 years and 4 billion €, but already at the time of the conclusion of the contract, to have a start-up package with a volume of 1 billion € in hand. These are no fewer than 150 projects that will be fixed when the contract is signed. We can already say today that there is much that Austria's economy will benefit from today and in the coming months and not only in a few years. These are projects that are interesting, projects which are also widely approved, but not those of the social-democratic opposition, but not those of Mr Kogler, if I understand his comments correctly. But I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, in this context, that one of yours, namely the former Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance Androsch, is one of those who is very clearly behind the counter-businesses, especially those with EADS. In an interview with me in the election campaign – I thank Dr. Androsch for his openness – he said in an interview with “NEWS”: I have a clear attitude: Should the political decision be made, I am co-responsible as one of the leading companies of delivery to the aeronautical industry – note: FACC – interested in my company taking a maximum part in the counter-business. - Quote. You, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, quoted the “standard” a few days ago. I also quote the “standard” and quote Dr. Androsch, who in turn said that the Eurofighters are certainly the best solution that Austrian companies have now put into important European technology platforms. Mr Androsch said something more that could be effective and important for the Social Democrats in the sense of a recovery of memory, namely that the basic decision for airspace surveillance aircraft at that time had taken a red-blue government with the Saab dragons. You forget about social democracy – including on the occasion of such debates – that you are reminded! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Kogler has already pointed out, I have the intention of bringing these counter-actions to the Austrians with maximum transparency. A virtual account is to be set up. [[Abg. Brosz: Very virtual!]] These counter-businesses should be available on this virtual account, which will be visited via the Internet on the website of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, but subject to a condition: provided that those undertakings participating in counter-businesses are not arbitrarily placed at the prranger. Mr Deweiser of the Social Democrats is now no longer here. He thought it necessary a few days ago to present a Tyrolean undertaking, namely the Westcam Group, a group that benefits from the counter-businesses, by means of a press release to the Pranger, to accuse them of these counter-businesses, and appealed to them to refrain from doing so. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist opposition! If you place Austrian companies at the prange, perhaps also the company of Dr. Androsch, then it will be difficult to create a transparent publication of these counter-businesses within the meaning of the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying: Austria's Federal Government is talking! Of course, we speak in terms of counter-businesses and economic platform. There is this economic platform, it is set up in my house, it is a platform that will accompany the settlement of these counter-actions with a volume of €4 billion and will ultimately confirm not only the economic researchers but also control the share of these counter-measures in the budget – as tax revenue of the Minister of Finance – or as social security contributions of our social security. I believe that of a purchase price of around €1.8 billion, including financing, about 50 percent will be represented as inflows to the budget and social security – we will prove this to you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that Austria's Federal Government, in a second relationship, really holds what it promised before the elections, after the elections, that it will not impose any burden on the budget until 2006. The financing by Mr. Finanzminister Karl-Heinz Grasser is designed in such a way that the first payments will begin in 2007. This will enable us to and will make our promise that the budgets of the coming years will not be burdened by the purchase of the Eurofighters by all Austrians by 2006 inclusive. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5116	Mr Gaál has now come to speak. - Please. I share the speaking time with the four speakers who are now following, so that every 7 minutes speaking time is available. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5138	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Bartenstein! I can remind you: The Court of Auditors, at its first level of assessment, found the counter-business ratio very, very problematic and criticised that there has been no budgetary coverage for the purchase of these sintering fighter jets. You have addressed some very interesting projects here, Mr Bartenstein, and I would therefore like to ask you: Call yourself a single concrete project – because I remember that last time, for example, jam was there, namely, from Darbo! Maybe now there's another jam under it. In any case, these announced counter-actions must only be realized to the extent of 200 percent, Minister of State. There is no offer guarantee as it is internationally usual – that was not required of you! –, we only have statements of intent, according to the motto: If we get the order, this and that can be possible. [[Abg. Wittauer: I would resign as an intercessor!]] There is no liability, no obligation to fulfill 100% of the written offer. – So: This is dream interpretation, these are pious desires, some newspapers say, we find ourselves at the stage of letters to the Christian child. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You don't believe in the Christian child at all!]] At any rate, Austria has no guarantee of compliance with these offers, so in relation to these compensation transactions only the pure faith remains – and that will be too little! [[Abg. Wittauer: Are you for airspace surveillance or not?]] Of course, a few large businesses will come to the train and benefit from it – they have been calling two companies for years – but small and medium-sized enterprises will be largely empty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Klubobmann Molterer – he is not present right now – quoted me in his speech and called me the often. I can assure you, however, ladies and gentlemen, our no and mine. No to these fighter planes, as Herbert Scheibner will have to confirm, is certainly no no no to the Austrian federal army. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Whose no? Since when do you say no?]] This no takes place out of concern – out of financial concern! – for the future of the Austrian federal army, because with this martial procurement you drive the federal army into overdebtedness, ladies and gentlemen from the government parties! [[Abg. Scheibner: Are you saying no to airspace surveillance now?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Stay with the truth!]] That is why this procurement is really a disaster for the Austrian federal army, because, Minister Platter, you will have to pay a lot of it from the current budget. [[Abg. Wittauer: Why?]] The interim solution mentioned today, the additional cost of €300 million – 5 billion schilling! – means, you have to pay – you owe it yourself because you took it out of the duty book – and much more. This will no longer leave money for other, meaningful, necessary procurements, especially as regards the protection and security of our soldiers in international use. No money will be available for this in the future, because everything will flow into this pointless procurement, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] And I'll stick with it. This is the most expensive misconception of a federal government since the Second Republic existed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: You are for other interceptors?]] On the quotations of Mr Kubobmanns Molterer, not present, and on the arguments you, Federal Minister Platter, have put forward: The example of Europe is a bad example; this is rather a reason for a no to fighter aircraft. We are in the process of implementing a common foreign and security policy in this Europe, we are talking about a common security, a common defence. We are on our way to a peace union: We need a lot in this Europe, but we do not need fighters, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a contradiction!]] Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Mr Scheibner and Mr Wittauer.]] My dear scream in the second row! [[Abg. Scheibner: This is Parliament's Wittauer!]] I can tell you one thing: What is purchased here has nothing to do with airspace monitoring! They're fighter planes! These are designed for the air war, for the air battle and have nothing at all to do with air police tasks. We do not need that – not in Europe and not at all in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We're worried a lot about something else. I come from a working-class district – from Vienna favorites – where thousands of families live with an income of just over €1,000 a month. [[Abg. Wittauer: You hear that!]] These do not understand how easily you deal with hard-earned tax money here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Let's save the whole federal army right now!]] We have an interest to represent: That is why there is a no to that of your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's this bill, the...! The fact that this is making an interlocutor is...!]] You can read the details of this purchasing policy, this irresponsible purchasing policy, with original documents, in the magazine “NEWS”. Finally, I should like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5421	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Gaál and colleagues is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Murauer is now on the floor. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign in view of the still ongoing applause at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a result of the long applause, the last speaker of the Greens is missing the speaking time. [[Abg. May. Hoscher: That's incredible!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Murauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5462	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! I think you heated up your interlocutor Gaál. I was a little afraid of you, Mr. Wehrvocher Anton Gaál, when you roared: I'm against these planes, against these fighters, against the interceptors! [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] Mr Gaál! If you had roared a little less, I'd have taken you more seriously. However, your roars have not been able to “overthink” that you were still a few years ago for air surveillance, that you were still a few years ago because we got the Dragon followers that you belonged to those reasonable socialists a few years ago, counted among those reasonable ones in the SPÖ series, who advocated that we bear responsibility for this state, who felt that we must write security large and that a monitored airspace is an essential part of our safety, dear friend. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gaál! You meant to be an interlocutor in interviews with newspapers: One thing is clear: If we stand for effective national defence and speak of active neutrality, then we must also follow the words. . We do not need a bulwark, Mr colleague, but actions! In another press release you thought at the time: “If we value that our sovereignty” – also for Members in the last row, sovereignty is valid, even if you do not yet understand it, Mr Colleague! – “It’s not just a matter of making it a land, but” – where do you think, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition? – “also in the air.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Puswald]] However, I would like to read here a quote from Mr Fischer, who is also interesting, because of the short time of speech, Mr Gaál and Mr Wehrsprecher of the Socialist Party. [[Abg. Wittauer: He no longer deserves this name!]] In a newspaper article, it says: “In detail, Fischer was asked for the further passage in the Draken order. The SP-Klubobmann knew about the decisions taken by all three parties – these were still times, Mr Gusenbauer: All three parties were for this! – “On airspace surveillance and on contracts concluded with Sweden.” Ladies and gentlemen! You see, there are three different viewpoints in this House, and that should also be known by the listeners at home. There are the Greens who reject the federal army, who say: We don't need the federal army, we don't need the soldiers! – Mayor Häupl has also expressed himself in this direction, also the head of the SPÖ-Jugend Kollross, but also strengthened the Greens. That is why I also understand that they are not for airspace surveillance and for aircraft, and that they have to use the means of dizziness, diffamation and suspicion and lies and fraud – in the absence of other arguments. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We are for saving!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's how they're stopped!]] The aim of the Greens is to discredit the German army accordingly and also those who strive to make a sincere, proper, manageable, transparent procurement. [[Abg. Oils: No, others!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: The “Trailer Rocketlers ”!]] [[Abg. Mandak: The government!]] The Social Democratic Party – as the current clubman said at the time – has abstained from my knowledge since 2. ==References====External links== Before, she has known herself for airspace surveillance, although not with waving flags, but according to the motto: If we are honest, we should actually want to stand a little bit on the Constitution! – But the Constitution seems to you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, to have no role at all at all at this time, but you see in the Constitution a sheet of paper on which it is clear that we should defend our country with all the means available to us. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The Constitution really does not matter to this government!]] ==References== On February 1, 2000, when the government launched "Schüssel I", social democracy turned and turned to left-wing populism, and it has been opposed to airspace surveillance since then. Ladies and gentlemen! I have already said it from this point of view: I don't know any other country – and since military attachés are present here today and listen to it, I would like to stress it again: There is no other country! – in which a discussion on the question: Should we control and secure our airspace and our borders, or should we not? At all events. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: It's Irresponsible!]] It is actually a shame that we need to discuss it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The arguments against airspace surveillance are as follows: Because we are surrounded by friends, including many NATO members! – I can say: These are also most other European countries, and yet they are renewing... – Mr President, you should never have dealt with this question at all, except in the form of calls for call; [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] They give at least this impression. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Listen to me so you'll finally get a little smarter! Each country focuses on monitoring its airspace – do we have an opinion? –, every country renews its air forces – but we discuss whether we should control and monitor our airspace! I believe that Switzerland can serve as an example: Switzerland has 138 airspace surveillance aircraft available and is constantly monitoring its airspace at international events because it says: Nothing happens to us in Switzerland! – Similarly, we should think in Austria too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government has begun to convey security. Klubobmann Molterer has already pointed out: For our citizens, we want to guarantee the safety of pensions, the safety of our health system, but also safety in our state – but not the way you want to do it by saying: Well, nothing's going to happen! We are in principle opposed, as in many other things too! – That’s not how we act, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5649	The next item is the report by Mr Bösch. Speaking time: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5667	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Neutral Switzerland operates 154 aircraft, Finland 64, Sweden 250 and Slovakia 84 – but the SPÖ organises a special meeting of the National Council due to 18 interceptors we want to obtain. Congratulations! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This federal government, in which we have been representatives since 2000, sets clear priorities. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I can't repeat that to you – because your arguments that you present today in this urgent request are not new – only: It sets clear priorities! This federal government is rehabilitating the state budget, securing pensions, and it is investing where you have left us gaps. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Where?]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the SPÖ! The gap in airspace monitoring is also a painful one. [[Abg. Oils: That hurts!]] The arguments you are making today in the statement of your urgent question are not new, they have been wiped out, we have heard them in the committees, and we have already answered them in numerous debates. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: But true!]] You are just as cockbled as your arguments in the pension discussion. In this too, you construct examples that do not correspond to reality – because negotiations are still under way! And with these examples, you are insecure the population as well as in the post-capture of the interception hunters. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ – I may start with it – was once a government-bearing party, and in these years it has always voted in favour of airspace surveillance, it has always voted for the re-establishment of the airspace surveillance aircraft, in all the bodies in which it was represented: here in Parliament, in the Federal Government, in the national defence councils. [[lively calls to the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You argue with the hint: That was in the 1980s, then the Cold War, and it was another general political, general military situation! – Yes, that was another situation in the Cold War, but you will not all want to say seriously that with the Dragon fleet at that time we could really have resisted a comprehensive military threat to the Red East. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] If the Warsaw Pact had led an attack against the West, we could not have done anything with our Dragons, which you propose as an argument today. Already at that time it was just an airspace surveillance! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But precisely the situation change since the collapse of the Iron Curtain, ladies and gentlemen, makes it possible for Austria, with these relatively modest forces, to respond to the new threats, especially terrorism. That's the difference! You should recognize that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oilmen: Catchers against Anthrax!]] Mr Cap suspects that these new interception hunters are not only used for national defence. You are right, Mr Commissioner: The situation has changed! These surveillance aircraft are necessary for peacekeeping and peacekeeping operations in order to ensure compliance with UN sanctions in order to protect their own soldiers used on the ground in order to facilitate the implementation of aid actions. The monitoring of major international events in the areas of Austria and the surrounding area is also important. Ladies and gentlemen! You should also recognize that the situation has changed in principle here and that these airspace surveillance aircraft must also be used for very modern needs – for needs, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ, which have been decided in the framework of the 'Petersberg actions' at European level when you put the Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: They're for wars!]] I should like to remind you that it was Chancellor Climate, who signed the 'Petersberg Actions' and supported it at European level – the 'Petersberg Actions', which are peace-keeping and peace-making measures. This is a completely new situation to which you should finally confess yourself clearly! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You have no idea!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: No connection!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens also polemize against the re-purchasing of the interception hunters. I am pleased, however, that you are not in principle against interception hunters. That was completely new to me. The Federal Speaker has announced that he is in favour of a new invitation to tender. [[Abg. Oillinger: To make you blame!]] As a result, you too are concerned about the re-purchasing of the interception hunters. I welcome this, and I am glad to see it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They polemize against the number of 18 pieces. I'm glad too! I notice that the opposition party is actually for the purchase of 24 pieces of interception hunters. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I have already been able to see this with amazement in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. You should not, Mr Kogler, polemise here that this Federal Government has put in place a right measure in the flood disaster, namely to set aside budget resources to help. I think it's bad that you use this polemically here! [[Abg. Oils: Such a matte polemic!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald:... to deceive the population!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The government has put in place a proper measure to ensure the safety of the Austrian population, and in parallel, it will not fail to continue the measures necessary for social policy, particularly in the area of the rehabilitation of the pension system.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5893	Mr Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speaking time: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5911	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I note that the Austrian People's Party and the remnants of the Freedom Party continue to believe that Austria needs fighter planes to be able to defend its airspace. Small question: Against whom: against Switzerland, against Liechtenstein or – and this is the only other possibility – against NATO countries? [[Abg. Scheibner: My God! All right! That's a nonsense!]] This is the message of the Austrian Federal Government We buy four armed and 14 unarmed fighter planes to defend Austria against the Airforce of the United States, the German Air Force, the British Air Force, the Italian Air Force and so on. [[Abg. Murauer: You are a failed person! You don't mind?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You yourself have said that we must not allow overflights!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Militaryly it is – and you know that – simple and simple nonsense! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Pilz, the military expert!]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: The chief demonstrator is the new military expert! Pillow in a new role!]] We are connected to NATO – whether it suits us or not – in the “Partnership for Peace” and have no reason to believe that NATO is the enemy against which we now have to protect ourselves in the air. [[Abg. Murauer: It's getting worse and worse!]] Stay different reasons – I will come back to them, but before I repeat questions that we have been asking again and again for more than a year and that are more and more often also asking pensioners and patients and students at the universities for reasons that are well known to you, and these are saying: [[Abg. Scheibner: But you do not believe the answers!]] What will all of this cost? [[Abg. Großruck: All of this has been answered!]] The only thing we know right now is: 18 interceptors are expected to cost € 2 billion. [[Abg. Murauer: Can we afford not to offer security? Should we afford to have no security?]] Is this all, Mr. Platter? Or isn't there still the operating costs? Why not put on the table that your military calculated that operating costs per year will amount to € 50 to 70 million, for a period of 30 years? Multiply that, then you are about €2 billion at operating costs, and that corresponds to international experiences. These are two billion euros that are already planned. Then there is the rent for the transitional solution. Mr. Minister of Defence! Where are the numbers? Is that true, what military tells me that this will be about 100 to 150 million euros a year? [[Abg. Murauer: Which military?]] Is it true that for two years we have to count €200 to €300 million on rental costs? [[Abg. Wittauer: There is no agreement yet!]] Is it true that for reasons of training, the Saab 105Ö must be replaced by 2010? Is it true that six – that is the minimal solution – exercise and training Eurofighters cost about €400 million – plus another €400 million for operating costs? Is it true that 12 pieces, as planned, cost 800 plus 800 million €? [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a fool!]] Now, Minister of Defence, I have to be a member of the opposition, because you are not prepared to provide the Austrian public with a first approximate bill: When I add, after this invoice I come to a total package of €2 billion, not €5.9 billion. [[Abg. Wittauer: First it was 3 billion, now it is 5 billion! What's going on? I'd give myself the numbers once!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In times of the so-called pension reform, the pension reductions, the reductions in benefits for patients, you link an open package of €2 billion and a secret package of €3.9 billion for aircraft, of which we know only one thing: that the Republic of Austria certainly does not need it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't believe that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know quite a lot from the procurement process and I know what happened about the last week, when once the Council of Ministers was postponed, at night. [[Abg. Scheibner: And most of it is wrong!]] I also know – and it can be proved – that the Minister of Defence intended not to propose the Eurofighters but the Swedish flu to the Council of Ministers. [[Abg. Wittauer: Where are the documents?]] On the morning of this Council of Ministers decision – and I say this clearly – a shift has been made to a correction in favour of the more expensive offer, and at the centre of this process is Karl-Heinz Grasser, who is still in office, who by veto threat in the Council of Ministers has prevented the decision for the grips and enforced Eurofighter. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Scheibner: A huge accusation!]] [[Abg. Murauer: You always come with diffamation when the arguments come out!]] But it is not about Eurofighters around Grasser, but about “Magna fighters” and Magna treaties and Magna interests and Magna payments to some who have directly or indirectly had to deal with this process. [[Abg. Wittauer: What does that mean?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: It's enormous that you can say something like that indiscriminately!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, because such waste must not take place, and because there is such a thing as political responsibility, and precisely because the women, Mr Bartenstein, who want to bring you to the poverty line with the reduction of their pensions after a long working life, have a right to their money being treated seriously, we therefore need a committee of inquiry, because you are not one millimeter on this question either! - Thank you. [[Abg. Scheibner: It is immense to be able to say something like that irreconcilable!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6253	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Prammer. Speaking time: 5 minutes if desired. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6271	Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! It is easy to sum up, Mr Murauer, Mr Bösch: They're talking about surveillance and my upgrade and fight! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Say something to your speakers!]] [[Abg. Murauer: What fight do you mean?]] They're talking about surveillance planes and my fighter jets! You don't mean defense and surveillance, but you imagine buying war material. That's not the way of Austria! We confess to our neutral Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Have you already understood neutrality?]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I turn to you very consciously now. I would like to ask you honestly how you can ever face women again, look them in the face and tell them why You can agree to pension reduction measures in full conviction and with euphoria, if at the same time you agree with the same applause of a completely pointless procurement action, the completely pointless concealment of money! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You'll have to deal with your conscience. We know which side we're on: We're on the side of people who haven't been easy since you were in government. And it's particularly difficult for the women! [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In these hours when you are constantly talking about willingness to discuss You talk about pension measures and pension cuts, because “reform” can’t be called it, scatter the women’s sand into the eyes! They do not even explain to women what is really ahead of them: a reduction in pensions, a very massive reduction, and no improvement. You'll have to answer that! [[Abg. Grandruck: Where's that? Citation! Where are pension cuts?! Show me that!]] – I can only recommend: Take the time and study your own Council of Ministers proposals and amendments! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They're talking about clear priorities. – Their “clear priorities” have long been recognized by people – namely to grab the bag for them to take profit from this grip themselves, ladies and gentlemen. Klubobmann Molterer and also Klubobmann Scheibner is not too good to stand out here and to detest 100,000 people who have gone to the streets in the worst weather. This insult is a clear sign against the people you put here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Because political strikes are more important to you than the result! That's the remorse! ... political agitation! This is not an insult to the strikers! That's great, that's what you're bringing! I would like to know what compulsory school teachers have to do with pension reform!]] If you would be sensitive to the needs of people in this country, then you could not sit here and do all that and say all that you're doing right now, what you're just saying. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] No matter if you're fighting jets, whether you're pensioning, whether you're self-retaining, everything together is not only completely wrong, but simply unresponsible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The best security – and we should discuss it in such debates – is social security, and they are currently putting you at risk. People will not play with them, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Keep in mind and think about the people at last! The invoice – I hope so – will soon be presented to you!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6430	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. The remaining speaking time of his group is 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6448	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Non-responsible, Mrs Prammer, is not what we are doing, but what you have said, and what is behind it – that is to link the issue of pensions with the issue of security policy and play the groups concerned against each other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What we need, ladies and gentlemen, is a pension reform that takes social aspects into account. And what we need is a sound defence and security decision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We should have this discussion with arguments, but not with attacks, precepts and the like. What the Social Democratic side presented was nothing but contradiction – obviously marked by the respective position, depending on whether government or opposition. Once yes, another time no, and what you call “confusional” is obviously only confusing for you, for the ÖVP has a relatively consistent, a clear line. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I find the Greens' argument somewhat more exciting, at least what Mr Kogler has brought. He said that if the threat scenario had changed, for which he put forward some arguments, then it would be necessary to discuss it. But what I missed from Mr Kogler was the alternative. How do you, according to the current variant, want to ensure airspace surveillance? With sailplanes? – I do not know a military and security doctrine that gives a satisfactory answer. I also think that what Mr Pilz referred to is a bit strange. He said that there were no external attacks in the EU and so on. But how do you want to overcome problems, prevent threats such as those in 1991, when the airspace was injured, as happened by Yugoslavian machines at the time? What do you want to do if terrorists get a machine? Do you want to monitor the airspace accordingly, for example from below, as Mr Scheibner asked, and with steering weapons? – I have missed the answer so far. [[Abg. Murauer: This does not play a role in us!]] What I have missed was what you are now presenting in the question, what you call “confusion in the field of counter-businesses. ” – You just write what some professors or newspaper columnists say. You write, you feel this is problematic, and carry out: If the counter-businesses already account for more than 200 percent, then we should not only buy 18 interceptors, but we would have to buy 80 or 100 or more! This may be a very funny argument, but it's just a basic flaw! They combine one area, namely the state with its expenditure and revenue, with the whole economy. But you have to keep that straight and clear! – You, Mr. “Klubobmann in spe” Dr. Matznetter, of course it is difficult to keep this apart. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You are really competent in every area, you have a kind of omnicompetence. But in this context it is precisely this distinction that is important. So what's the state got of it? – The state may expect about 50 percent of taxes and taxes – it has already been mentioned today. - Not a bad thing! On the other hand, you – as well as others – are constantly saying that the economic situation is currently problematic, that we have had some demand problems for three years. It is probably necessary to really discuss whether the stability programmes imposed by the EU – especially those relating to public expenditure – are really so positive in all things. We do not necessarily want to fall back into the situation in which the State is going back to the corresponding expenditure, so that we can make the debt of past years again, but in the final effect, economic and economic policy, this measure is very correct because it creates orders and investments at a time of stagnation – and thus creates jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The fight for jobs!]] Mr Matznetter, it is your group that is always addressing jobs in the field of pension reform, and I think that is right. But you should also see this aspect when buying the interceptors; this aspect is also taken into account accordingly. Mr Gaál has said here today that only two large companies would benefit, and not all other companies will benefit. – This could now be wonderfully supported by the economics of the world. But the practice looks completely different, how? – There is an ARGE offset. This ARGE Offset, which has had nothing to do with the entire decision on procurement, is located in the Chamber of Commerce and fulfils its task with the involvement of the respective countries, with the involvement of the respective regional chambers. And do you know what the task of this body is? – The task of the ARGE Offset is to provide SMEs with appropriate access to the projects in particular. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, you know that large orders for companies are of course also getting orders from small companies. That is to say, this procedure is not only correct in terms of economic policy, but also structural policy and in terms of the possibilities of small and medium-sized enterprises. There is also a very important third point, which reads as follows: We have a problem with meeting the Lisbon objective of achieving a research and development ratio of 3 percent of GDP by 2010. In this context, the question must be asked: How does a research project finally come about? – A research project does not only arise in the retort, a research project does not arise either by saying: Now we are making a large group or something similar!, but a research project is created on the concrete project, on the real economic implementation! And that is why this measure, which helps us to gain access to European research programmes such as “Ariane” or “Galileo”, is a very important measure. We are thus making a corresponding progress in technology and innovation policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this we also come to the resultant consequence. This is not an economic voodoo, as some professors sometimes describe, quite the opposite. It is not that we now do business or demand business from the economy, and in return we get the interception hunters – that would be illogical and also undesirable – but: If the State buys such equipment from security policy considerations, it is of course also internationally usual to fix such counter-actions. As far as the ponale is concerned, this is equally common in the international environment at a level of 5 percent. There is therefore transparency and clarity in this area. In fact, only you are confused, but no one who reads the exact conditions! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you sum up everything if you go through the entire process step by step, then you have to admit: It was a fair process, a transparent process, a correct process – all in all for the Austrian economy a process that will ultimately promise success!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6570	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6588	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite interesting that we have often heard the following: It is spoken of as “airplanes. ” [[Abg. May. Prammer: What are they?- Oh, my God!]] – Mrs. Prammer needed the expression “reconversion”, even one even speaks of “champion”. Ladies and gentlemen! They are interceptors, it is an airspace surveillance device that will be purchased here, a device for securing the Austrian airspace, a device that enables us to actually carry out active airspace surveillance, as it requires the task of a sovereign state. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens]] I am astounded at the fact that Mr Gusenbauer is speaking today of the fact that once again a wrong decision has been taken, which would now be taken back, and he believes that as a government coalition, one should be so perceptive. Ladies and gentlemen! This is also not true in the statement made by Mr Gusenbauer, who knows very well that there has been a continuous chain of decision-making in this area since the beginning of the 1980s, which has always been the subject of airspace surveillance equipment since the acquisition of the airspace surveillance equipment and in which it has always been expressed. I do not want to repeat them now. But the question – and this is what I am addressing to the Social Democrats in this House – is why the SPÖ has made such a swing since it was no longer in the great coalition. She's always been for it before! – As a reason, you always hear: Since the collapse of the eastern block, since the end of the Cold War, “warplanes” – as the SPÖ always stresses – are no longer necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! The collapse took place in 1989. Now I ask you as a former state-bearing party: Why, for the benefit of citizens and taxpayers, as you think, did you not assume your responsibility and did not put the airborne interception hunters, the Dragons, out of operation to at least save the operating costs for it? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also ask you: Why do we operate the golden hood system in Austria, a very efficient, but certainly also costly, airspace monitoring instrument? Why do you not have any appropriate requests in this regard during the time you were a government party, especially since you should have a state-political responsibility to the taxpayer? – Well: because it obviously corresponds to your populism, your way of making politics, to change your mind on such questions! – Or do we need the “gold hood” system to see how unauthorised overflights take place, or to be able to make us foot-free in the first row a threat to our state, to our airspace, a restriction of sovereignty? Why has the Socialist Party not become active during its reign? Ladies and gentlemen! I know a suggestion; it comes from the former Klubobmann Kostelka: He has indeed suggested that we should use ground-air missiles instead of the interceptors! If I tell you that every year about 20 to 30 injuries of Austrian sovereignty, injuries of Austrian airspace are taking place, and if I tell you that 31 such injuries have already occurred in this year, then you can calculate how “effective and efficient” You could have used these ground-air missiles! – You should have essentially limited yourself to watching these injuries. I can also make a small comment because the clubman of the SPÖ has offered a very cabaretistic presentation: If he had made this a little more melodic – I do not know if this would have called for an order; I address this question to the President here – then I assume that he might have traveled to Riga instead of Alf Poier to the Song-Contest. Ladies and gentlemen! A word about the compensation transactions: You – and this is what I mean by Mr Gusenbauer and also by Mr Cap – are always talking about compensation and the lack of transparency. I assume that in your view, you assume that former compensation transactions – at the time you were in the government – are the measure of all things. – I can tell you: They're not! They were certainly critical, but I am saving myself the criticism here. Essentially, I do not think that mistakes made in compensation transactions in the past are repeated today. I think this is very crucial. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This requires a transparent presentation of these counter-actions. They have already been mentioned, and it has already been said to what extent they take place. And I can tell you one thing: It assumes a corresponding impetus for the domestic economy. Counter-businesses have a positive impact on the labour market. I know a very innovative Upper Austrian company, very honoured Ladies and gentlemen, after the type decision, a contract already awarded has returned to Austria in the amount of several hundred million schillings. This is a company with 700 employees, a company that is innovative, a high-tech company, a company that has an annual growth rate of 10 percent in the personnel sector and a sales increase of about 20 percent. I think that's meaningful. There you cannot say, Mr Gaál: Because SMEs do not do business – which is not true by the way – we are against the interception hunters!, as you have tried to argue. Ladies and gentlemen! We're not going to join this mutual play, as the opposition does! This federal government and the representatives of the government coalition are in favour of pension insurance and not of playing out. We stand for a positive labour market policy, and we stand for the security of this country – and this, of course, also in the air!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6661	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. The wish is to set the clock to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6679	Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever has believed in the course of today's debate that the confusion about the figures that have been delivered to us in the Committee's deliberations on interception hunters is decreasing, he has frantically deceived himself! On the contrary: The confusion has been raised again! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To reveal what variant costs is the absolute minimum of political responsibility, which can be desired in this case. – But not even this minimum is guaranteed. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the true scandal based on a debate on pension reductions and the compulsion to introduce a health tax which is now to be imposed on the entire population. It's not acceptable! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] At the end of the day, there are three things that have to do with us: First of all, these are the numbers. These – I have responded – are not present! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I know you trust blindly, but should you not consider whether this trust is actually guaranteed if we are presented at each committee meeting a new variant on the costs of the interceptors, intermediate solutions, permanent operation and so on? Don't you even think that's suspicious? – I don’t know how far your trust goes, and I don’t know if you won’t even complain bitterly that you’ve turned your eyes here in the wrong moment. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let us – point two – finance and counter-business. This is one of the most exciting topics, not for nothing, it also dominates today's debate. If it is now said that in addition to the big profiters of the so-called counter-businesses, there should also be some broths for small and medium-sized enterprises and that this would manage the so-called gross offset, and if it is still known that this is taking place under the roof of the Chamber of Commerce, then my confidence in this variant is not necessarily rising rapidly. I just want to say one thing: If you know that certain Easter holidays at Arlberg, where Stronach and Grasser have understood themselves very well, took place again this year, it is not difficult to think about where the focus of the counter-businesses will be. This is obvious at least in the announcement. I am afraid the transparency will be the same as in the cases of Draken and Thomson. Since I am a member of the Defence Committee, I have repeatedly asked that at least once again these old counter-actions be disclosed. Nothing has been put on the table by these old counter-businesses. – Before the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economic Affairs announce that they will reveal everything in the future, perhaps sometime in 2020, of which no one has anything anymore, please and finally disclose what has long been required of us and should have been done for a long time! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] One – third – point is still very important, ladies and gentlemen. We are also talking about the European level. They were from the government parties who constantly claimed that the new threat images were so much different, which is why we need a new concept for Austrian security policy. – Yes, we need it, but we really need it, not just in the form of confession literature! If you say today – Mr Bösch has done it again – that terrorism has been fought with interception hunters, I wonder where you have been since the attack in the USA on 11 November. ==References====External links== That is a shame for a defence policy discussion! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] If you know – and Mr Bösch knows – that at European level the establishment of a arms agency, i.e. the creation of a European monopoly for arms production, and if you know that we are shopping with these monopolys, then, ladies and gentlemen, pan-European dimensions of this business become even clearer and clearer. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6786	The resolution on the termination of Eurofighter Typhoon's procurement process, which has just been read, is currently under negotiation and will be put to the vote. The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. I would draw attention to the fact that the remaining speaking time of the Freedom Party is 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6807	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The subject of interception hunters is certainly a very emotional issue and certainly a subject on which the discussion is very difficult to hold. I'd like to say: I too am very critical of this purchase, because I am very well aware that this is a serious decision to be made here because it concerns a lot of money. I too share the opinion of Mr Kogler: It is a pity that the business platform announced by Chancellor Schüssel has not been implemented. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You know, I'm not bad at you, but – and I want to stress that – you're putting my patience to a real test. If you think about what you have to offer, you have to say: sad! Your variant for airspace defense was always: We don't need any more planes, we take radars and missiles and shoot down the people who fly over! I'm giving you to think about what that means. – That is to say, with your system, ladies and gentlemen, we would have shot 30 aircraft out of the sky this year alone. That's what I'm giving you! That's a problem you'll have to live with when you shoot missiles on any planes that aren't identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6842	The next item is the report by Mr Herz, Member of Parliament. The remaining speaking time of the Socialist Group is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6861	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What has the Minister meant all the time today? He said: impeccable, clean, correct, transparent! These are the vocabulary. [[Long-term demonstrationist applause with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] - Still applause! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, where do you think he takes these vocabularys that you so strongly acclaim? [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Because it is!]] He takes them from two opinions he ordered himself. It says that everything is perfect, clean, correct and transparent. [[More recently, long-lasting detonatative appeal to the ÖVP and the liberals.]] In another opinion, ladies and gentlemen, which he has not ordered, there is something completely different, namely that the Republic of Austria even threatens claims for damages. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who ordered the opinion?]] But, Mr Scheibner, enough of the opinions! [[Abg. Scheibner: Who ordered the opinion? Say that!]] Mr Scheibner! We have an institution – I need the time to explain this to you – in Austria we have an institution, that is, the Court of Auditors, which independently has a high reputation, which is credible and is not the soldier of the government. [[numerous calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman]] Mr Platter has faithfully said that the Court of Auditors will check afterwards. – Minister! ==References== In May, together with the Minister for Finance, Minister for Economic Affairs and Mr Scheibner, the Eurofighter is a sensational result. This has enabled you to carry out an ex-post audit of the Court of Auditors. They themselves have made it possible for the Court of Auditors to review. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But now it comes: President Fierce says that his report on the award will be available in July – but in June the Minister wants to sign the contract! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! What is the reason why this minister fears the Court of Auditors' report, like the devil, when everything is so impeccable, correct, clean and transparent? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Why, Minister, are you afraid of the Court of Auditors' report, like the devil, of the consecration water? This is a reason why we will support the request to set up an investigation committee. Now to the platform. – No euro, no cent will come out of the Eurofighter budget, the Federal Chancellor said before the election. He had to take out the emotions, he meant later. So this is the synonym of a smooth untruth: the “take out emotions ”? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What does the Minister of Economic Affairs say about the economic platform? This is not foreseen, he says in the “Presse ” of 17. May. In the meantime – you have to let that break on the tongue – Schüssel already praises the platform again and says that it was not a campaign gag. So please, Erwin Zankel, the editor-in-chief of the “Small Newspaper ” in his “Denkzettel ” misses the right answer: “Rosslusser. ” Virtually like the Chancellor's economic platform where Eurofighters should land free of charge. After the election day, the government continues to pursue the horse-studentry in mint. This is the reality." [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Where is the proposal for improvement?]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council today gave a very clear and clear information on the economic platform. President Fierce today in the original tone: There is not the slightest indication of pre-financing of the interception hunters by an economic platform. – As far as the Federal Chancellor's statements before the National Council election are concerned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, because you always look out to Germany with such great enthusiasm, which is extremely popular, especially at the ÖVP: The German Court of Auditors recommends a shift in the purchase of the Eurofighters and says that about the later maintenance and logistics, there is still no clarity about the total cost of the Eurofighter around two years before the start of use. Furthermore, the costs of armaments were not yet fully known and uncertain. [[Abg. Scheibner: How many planes do they have in Germany?]] What do you think, ladies and gentlemen, what the Minister has replied to this objection today? – He said: If we don't look at Germany, we'll take care of our problems in Austria! – and that, where you have repeatedly said for months, we have to compare ourselves with Germany. A horrendous one, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Your comparisons are immense!]] I quote: Made for Austria – Jörg Haider stops the catch hunt purchase! FP-Bundesrat Gudenus: There's a suspicion of corruption. The third President of the National Council calls for a re-examination and says: The voters were deceived. – If these are not the reasons why, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, today and here, a request for an examination of these Causas, when then?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7050	No one's been reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall proceed to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gaál, colleagues, on the procurement stop for fighter aircraft and airspace surveillance aircraft. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mr Gaál's motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority, and therefore the request is rejected. [[Call the ÖVP: Tombs!]] – I did not hear the expression “death graves”. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on the termination of Eurofighter Typhoon's procurement process. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is the minority, the request is therefore rejected. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7100	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Werner Koglerund Group on the setting up of an investigative committee on ‘1. Examination of the legality of all procedures and decisions within the procurement process relating to the Eurofighter campaign 2. The investigative committee shall, by means of surveys of oral and written information on the subject-matter of the investigation and by taking into account the files of the listed Federal Ministries,... review all matters for legal and political responsibilities. In particular, the following responsibilities shall be involved...: Investment and responsibility of Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel, Vice-ChancellorIn (Riess-Passer and Main), Federal Minister of Finance (Grasser), Economics (Bartenstein) and National Defense (Scheibner and Platter), their Cabinet and their ministries led by them in the course of the entire procurement process for the purchase of combat aircraft;’ Other audit orders are formulated, and finally: “Investment of party-related companies, in particular the PR Agency for the Eurofighter lobbying “100% Communications”, and its management.” The request has now been distributed to all Members of Parliament so that a reading by the author is not necessary. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7224	The debate was not called for. Therefore, we shall immediately vote on this request for the establishment of an investigation committee whose subject I do not have to repeat. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their approval to this request for the setting up of an investigation committee. – The request does not find a majority, it is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7262	I announce that at today's meeting, the self-employed received requests from 133/A to 135/A, further questions 438/J to 468/J and a question to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is for Wednesday, 4. June, in view. It will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
