ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e1793	The meeting was opened. I very much welcome the ladies and gentlemen of the House to the second special meeting this summer. Meeting of the National Council at an extraordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e1815	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has the National Council with resolution of 27. In accordance with Article 28(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 28(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 2 Federal Constitutional Act on the basis of a request from more than one third of the members of the National Council for an extraordinary meeting of the XXII. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The non-reading parts of the official protocol of the 30th century. Parliament's management session remained unanswered and undisputed. Mr. Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen has been reported to be prevented. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e1847	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e2051	At the beginning of the meeting, MEPs Dr. Josef Cap, colleagues, tabled a written question 784/J to the Federal Minister for Finance on ‘Friendly Economics instead of Economic Policy by the example of ÖIAG and voestalpine’. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Barbara Prammer, ladies and gentlemen, asked that this question be dealt with urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e2082	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the Members of this House are Magistrate. Mainoni and Miedl requested to report to the Transport Committee on the Protocol of 3 March 1990 on the implementation of the Protocol to the European Union. of 9 June 1999 on the amendment to the Convention on International Railways (COTIF) of 9 June 1999 In May 1980 (Protocol 1999), together with the Declaration of the Republic of Austria, 46 of the Supplements, a period of until 17. ==References== In addition, according to § 43 para. 3 in conjunction with § 57a and b GOG of the National Council, a debate on this request is required. As for today's sitting, as you have heard, the urgent debate on a written question has been requested, the brief debate will take place following this one. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. I am now interrupting the meeting – to your “surprising” – until 3 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e2126	I'll start the interrupted session again. – Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take the places. [[The SPÖ delegates wear a round red plaque with the inscription “No Voest Sales!”]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e2158	Before dealing with the urgent question, I announce that in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure have requested to set up an investigative committee to inform about the conduct of the Federal Minister of Finance in respect of the implementation of the ÖIAG Act since 4.2.2000, in particular the preparations for the sale of the Federal Shares of voestalpine AG, as well as the compliance with the Employment Act 1998 in connection with the appointment and appointment of Supervisory Boards and Boards of Austrian Industry-Holding-AG. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. The debate and the vote will take place after the vote on the request for a deadline already known to you. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Josef Cap, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Finance on Friendly Economy instead of economic policy, on the example of ÖIAG and voestalpine (784/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e2195	We now come to the urgent debate on the written question 784/J. In the meantime, this has been done by all the Members, so that a reading by the scribe is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e2446	Before I give the floor to the first questioner on the grounds of the urgent question, I am still aware that the following statement was adopted by the President-in-Office for the period from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.: The questioner has 15 minutes for the reasons of the urgent question, the member of the government in question, that is, the Federal Minister for Finance, to answer the urgent question 15 minutes or, if no further word is made from the government bank, 23 minutes. Next: One speech per group in the duration of 8 minutes, possibly another word by the member of the government or another member of the government in question in the course of 8 minutes. As in the last special session, this time of speech can also be divided into two members of the government with 4 minutes each. Next: One speech per group of 5 minutes, possibly one further word by a member of the government of 4 minutes, if the above-mentioned speaking time is divided from 8 minutes to two members of the government. Finally: A further round of Members with one speech per group of 5 minutes. Any actual corrections as well as word messages for business treatment will only be called after 5 p.m. I now give the floor to Mr Dr Cap as the first questioner to justify the urgent question.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e2483	Mr President. High house! At the beginning of the summer, we tried to reach that Parliament could work through in the summer. We wanted several committees to continue to operate. The report on the review of the occupation of positions in ÖAIG, in the national economy. He shows scandals and also what a privilege stadium has developed there, in violation of the anti-privileged laws. In the course of the planned total privatisation of voestalpine AG, it has been shown that a special meeting is necessary, where it is necessary to ask questions to the Minister of Finance which he, as we hope, is also able to answer. [[Abg. Scheibner: First you said that the reason was another, not the ÖIAG! There's something else in the urgent request!]] I am missing a little bit from Mr. Vice-Kanzler's head, who completely declared yesterday that he is against the privatisation of voestalpine AG. Today he apparently fell back again at the Council of Ministers meeting, so he has also avoided sitting here on the government bank today. But maybe he'll still show up. Mr Finanzminister! The fact is one thing: voestalpine AG is the most successful company in Europe in its industry. You know that in the last six years this company has paid € 102 million to dividends, in addition to annual tax benefits of € 170 million. Investment alone amounted to €623 million in 2002. voestalpine AG, which in its ownership structure has a mixed form between public and private property and is of course Austrian-structured, is therefore a successful company My question to you, Mr Finanzminister, is therefore: Why does this total privatisation actually have to take place? What profit is associated with this for the company? What is the advantage to the company? You have to answer this question, because otherwise something remains in the room, which is already suspected of the longest time, namely: This company is to be ruined, at the cheapest price that can be achieved. And this is an immense scandal, a blow to the face of taxpayers and taxpayers and the owner! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The whole thing is going on in a highly dubious way, because the vice-president has said that Minister of Finance Grasser has only one audit assignment. We have looked at the Council of Ministers' presentation, and it is in fact within it that there are two options to examine the privatisation of voestalpine AG. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's wrong!]] Today Vice-Kanzler Haupt was once again pulled over the table or convinced or put under pressure, however, I do not know, at least in the APA issue, the objections would be too late, for Karl-Heinz Grasser submits opinions that the decision on the privatisation process is already fully in the hands of the ÖIAG. This is not the case at all, because the crucial meeting of the ÖIAG Supervisory Council takes place on 5 May. September instead of where possible the total privatisation will be decided. My question in this context is: Why could the Council of Ministers not have made a correction today? Why could the Council of Ministers not have decided to stop privatisation today? – Because this government is under a ceiling and it seems that this company really wants to throw away. You have to say that clearly here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Since the President of the National Council is sitting here today, who stops in a very interesting interview, I would like to ask the question: Who benefits from this total privatisation? In this interview, the questioning journalist observed: “As it looks, the country Upper Austria and the Raiffeisen Bank are getting into the Voest...!” – So one of the Riffeisen organisations close to the ÖVP wants to get in there. Prinzhorn replied – I quote –: “They don’t get in, they’re already inside. It is obvious that they want to expand their positions.” Now comes the crucial sentence: “This makes it possible for a strategic investor to earn a considerable amount of money in the case of a takeover offer.” – Quotes. What does that mean, Mr. Prinzhorn? – The head of the Raiffeisen-Landesbank Oberösterreich Scharinger and the Raiffeisen-Organization buy this, make a Patzen profit, see that the many millions of dividends flow into their pockets, and then when Mr. Frank Stronach knocks on from the Magna as a strategic investor and offers more for the stock, then is sold. – That’s the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In addition, the following are added: Raiffeisen-Analysts say – this is so beautiful in the newspapers; who else should confirm this? – 37 € per share is a fair price. Others who are not close to the Raiffeisen organization say that goes up to 45 or 50 € high. I say: If this is sold at this low price, then €200 million will be wasted. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But accept this with the government decision! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] As you have made an intermediate call, I would like to tell you: I am reticent, correctly holding back, but when Jörg Haider at the Rieder trade fair in relation to the buyer Scharinger, who wants to shop there even more and who acts as if there was an oberösterreichische majority, which is only a shame and a deceiving, says – I quote –: “Schringer and Co are a dirty party, they will sell immediately in the event of favourable stock development,” I have to say: That's the way it is! He is right to do so, because Mr Scharinger will also be under the pressure of his owners and will therefore, of course, sell. That's how it will be! You can make decisions here as much as you want to apply from 5. September, when this Supervisory Board Decision has been taken, all are nothing more, because once privatized, then it is privatized, and afterwards everything is possible. And since nothing benefits from this “smear guarantee” of the Federal Chancellor, who acts as if he could put the laws of the market economy out of force, and says: I guarantee an Austrian majority! Yes, he can guarantee that when the dividends of the Raiffeisenverband are cast down, they will access. But he will no longer be able to guarantee that voestalpine AG remains in Austrian hands. That's the truth! You have to say this clearly today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr. Peter Michaelis of the ÖIAG, which, according to the Court of Auditors' audit report, you have passed the anti-privilege laws with wonderful benefits – that is, the man with the rental allowance at the level of, I believe, 40 000 € and the man with the high subsidy for the resettlement of, I believe, 50 000 € – said in the “ZiB 2” interview of the respondent, Ms. Langer: Shareholders are shareholders. When foreign shareholders report, they will be taken into account as much as the domestic shareholders. Well, that's the law when you go to the stock exchange. That's when you sell and privatize. Do not pretend in your comments as if on the one hand you would completely privatize and on the other hand do not change anything! It's a queer of the population, a debilitating of the workforce! But Mr. Landeshaupt Pühringer is still there and believes that this is a successful election campaign that he is leading there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Furthermore, the interview by Minister of Finance Grasser in today’s edition of the “Press” on the tongue must be broken. We all assume that there are some who want to break something under the nail when they initiate this so-called private economic total privatisation. He says to the Voest sale: “But the inner value of the Voest is certainly higher.” That's what we've been saying all the time. We mean the stock price is too low. He also says: “This is what we are giving the share of course fantasy.” – That’s what we now call concealment of assets. That's imaginative! This is the imagination that the Minister of Finance has and will benefit from Mr. Scharinger and his Linz coffee house syndicate. So from the responsible, I even say, private market understanding, Mr. Finanzminister, you are really far away. You have to see that with all the clarity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now I'm asking: What is that? Is economic policy? – This cannot be described as an economic policy. It's what a "standard" editor, Mr. Michael Moravec, on 30. August, under the title “Dumping Inadequacy”, writes very well: “In Austria, the party felt and the friendly economy is held for economic policy.” This is the new policy, the new economic policy for which this government and the finance ministers are right. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Now I'm going to tell you something – I'm hearing it formally that you're going to come back with the history of the national lights: If we social democrats, and also phase by phase together with the ÖVP, would not have been so committed to ensuring the location in Linz and Donawitz and would not have worked for the restructuring, especially under Federal Chancellor Vrannitzky and later under the Federal Chancellor's climate, then today this company would not be in this good condition. [[Abg. Scheibner: How much percent have you privatized?]] You must have found this out here once! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervening calls and ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Read the eight points in the “profile” about the backgrounds of this privatisation, where editor Liselotte Palme says, nor does it agree that under Karl-Heinz Grasser the renovation took place, even that was wrong compared to the leadership that was previously. The only thing he has accomplished – and I will now come to the next issue – is that he has thrown out Mr Streicher and Mr Ditz. Why? – Because they have said that the Allerösterreichisch is the most Austrian, if the Republic is a nuclear shareholder, 25 percent plus a share. That's the most Allerösterreichisch! - But you didn't want to! That's why the two gentlemen were put in front of the door. The Court of Auditors then complained, among other things, in its audit report – as well as many others – that qualified managers were deliberately put at the door for ideological reasons. I say: Because one wanted to privatize, in the sense that one proceeds party-politically. Mr President, you said in your interview that the only beneficiaries were the investors of the ÖVP. They formally said that it was now moving into the kingdom of the ÖVP. They also said there was actually a deal between Scharinger and Stronach. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] That is what you said, Mr President Prinzhorn. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] Now be man enough and stand for this your interview and don't always call in between! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The list of errors in the Court of Auditors' audit report has been listed for some time. Infringements against the anti-privilegation laws were found as follows: OIAG: defaults in respect of claims and pension arrangements; Postbus AG: Executive Board pension arrangements are not in line with the contract stencil regulations; Federal forest: The design of the Management Board contract is contrary to the contractual stencil regulation in several punks. I could continue this list with the examples ASFINAG, ÖBB, Austria advertising. You broke the anti-privilege laws. Especially one of the two parties – the ÖVP never wanted to reduce the privileges – the FPÖ, which has designed its entire election struggles, has contributed to an increase in privilege. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where? You have to explain this to us.]] This has been the case in the pension agreements and in the proceedings as in a privileged stage. What about the Minister of Finance? He called for praise from the Court of Auditors. He rejects the criticism and says – this is the best statement of Grasser, to be read in “NEWS” of 21. August – “the meager donation of salaries for the Wende Managers is partly even “painful” to him.” Do you know what is embarrassing? – That you still sit up there as Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Then Minister of Finance Grasser must have had a conversation with the Chancellor, because suddenly he changed his course. In his comment on the audit report of the Court of Auditors on the privilege stage in the ÖIAG, which is destructive, he said suddenly in the “ZiB 2”: Where a lot of work is done, a little bit of a mistake can happen. – It is noted that this statement has caused him physical pain when he says that a little bit of a mistake can happen there. It's not that simple, because there are lawbreaks! The President of the Court of Auditors says that it is a “step in the face of the rule of law” if one believes that it is possible to reorganise lawbreaks afterwards by changing the laws. I mean, That's an indecent attitude!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e2711	To answer the urgent question, Mr. Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasserzu word reported. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time is 15 minutes. The light begins to shine 2 minutes before the end of the speaking time. – You are speaking, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e2732	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. Because you, Mr Cap, once again called for a privatisation stop because you are the owner of the state, because you have conjured the state as a business owner, I will be holding you back again and again: No one manages businesses worse than the state! [[Call the SPÖ:You!]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! This is the conviction of the Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser, but it is a quote from no one less than Otto Bauer. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Otto Bauer, ladies and gentlemen, who is well-known to you, who is also known to us as an icon, but as an icon of social democracy, Member of Parliament, who wrote the first party programme of social democracy, has already said in the 1920s and 1930s: [[Abg. Arbitrators: Very good, but a little long ago!]] No one manages businesses worse than the state. – That means, Otto Bauer continued to be more advanced at the time, was then more innovative than the SPÖ is today. It is a pity for your economic policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'll tell you one thing: It is not the question of whether the opposition is right, which says that the State should continue to hold shares in businesses, or whether the government is right, which says: [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: poverty certificate!]] We continue our privatisation course in the interests of jobs and companies. Mr Cap has referred to it: You have a bad conscience on this question! They shall be responsible for the following balance sheet: From 1982 to 2000, the taxpayer had to pay €1,415 million in the repayments of the state-owned industry among social-democratic German chancellors, under their responsibility, and he had to pay €2,392 million in interest. That is to say, the sum of €3 800 million, which your catastrophic policy in the state has imposed on the taxpayer as a burden. – As a result of this policy, ladies and gentlemen, more than 50,000 people have lost their jobs during the same period. More than 50,000 workers have lost their jobs! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is courageous that you are making a special meeting on privatisation policy, because I remind you of Court of Auditors reports that could not have been a major disaster, such as privatization scandals like the AMAG, such as voestalpine mining holding. I remember: How did you privatize Semperit? I remember: What charges did the taxpayer have to bear for the industrial companies of the Landesbank, for Eumig, for funders, for climate technology? – 428 million € damage for the taxpayer! I remember: What did the tax payer have to pay for industrial companies at CA, for Steyr-Daimler Puch, for Andritz, for Heit? – € 582 million in damage to the taxpayer. I would remind you of the German Chancellor Vranckky's Danube Dam Shipping Debakel: 380 million € damage to the taxpayer. That means, ladies and gentlemen, your balance sheet was: Politicians and political secretary to the Supervisory Boards!, governing, intervening in the companies, destroying tax money at billions of euros, thousands of jobs have been lost, and we have handed over a debt of 6.3 billion euros in the ÖIAG. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: bowl, that's what you have to say!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was high time there was a turn in financial policy, economic policy, privatisation policy. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Say the bowl!]] – We have made it better, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have called the politicians you have put in the Supervisory Boards, we have replaced the political secretaries. Today, there are top managers, the best managers who show in the private sector of the Republic and internationally how to run a company. [[Abg. Gaál: Read the Court of Auditors report!]] Ladies and gentlemen! ÖIAG Supervisory Boards are responsible for more than €2,000 billion in turnover in their own companies and for more than 650 000 employees. - I'll tell you one thing: These personalities can rely on the Austrians, they can have it, they have proved it. They have reduced ÖIAG's debt from €6.3 billion to below 2 billion in just three years; they have significantly increased the value of the respective companies. ÖIAG has been renovated for the first time for 30 years. Our goal is: Never again red numbers in the ÖIAG! We have black numbers! – That’s how it should stay, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The last point before I answer your questions: If you are calling for a privatisation stop just now, since there are country elections in Upper Austria, this proves to me only one thing: that the risk that politics is interfering with the company's shadow is more up-to-date than ever. They're trying to play as Saviour of the Voest. I'll tell you: That's not what the Voest needs. The Voest doesn't need a premeditation by politics! They were – German Chancellor Vrannitzky, Minister of Finance Climate – who, after decades of deficits of the Voest, brought Voest to success with the partial privatisation in 1995. I'll tell you: We continue the successful policy of this partial privatisation. We say: The partial privatisation has been great, one has returned part of the voest to the Austrians, the small shareholders, the financial investors, which has worked very well. We are proud of the Voest: We are proud of the achievements of our employees, we are proud of the achievements of this company, and this will continue with full privatisation, even better than before. That's the right way for this company. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can therefore come to answer questions 1 and 2, which I draw together. I believe that politics has set very wise and prudent privatisation targets. We have defined what is privatising in the Austrian interest, and we have said: The Federal Government wants the unit of the company Voest to be preserved. There will be no destruction of the voest. We have said that we want the decision-making centre to remain in Austria, of course, we want Austrian core shareholders to continue to exist in the Voest. [[Call the SPÖ: How?]] We have said that research and development must remain in Austria. We have said that we are for safe jobs in Voest and we want to strengthen the competitiveness of this company. You know that the ÖIAG Privatisation Committee has proposed to the Supervisory Board, which will meet on Friday, that these objectives be achieved through privatisation through the Stock Exchange. – I am convinced that this is a very wise way – a way, ladies and gentlemen, with which one will have the opportunity to involve the employees of the Voest even more strongly than that so far, in the company with which one has the opportunity to give many thousands of small shareholders in Austria shares of the Voest, with which one has the opportunity to participate in the Voest. Ladies and gentlemen! If we remain fair in the debate, we must see the following: Thank God today already 36 percent of Voest in private Austrian shareholder hands – today already 36 percent! If ÖIAG now sells 34.7 percent of the company via the stock exchange and if only half of them are taken up by small shareholders – by employees, by Austrian financial investors – and there are many great interests! – then I say with great certainty to you, ladies and gentlemen: The employees will be more involved than before. This is good; they identify with the company, they bring the performance in this company, which is important for the success course of the Voest. There will be a strong Upper Austrian core, and I am sure there will be more than 50 percent Austrian shareholders. – Last week the newspaper wrote: The Voest remains Austrian. – This is our way, which is ensured by privatisation via the stock market. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Bad time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Board of Directors – the Board of Directors! – the Voest says: Let's go this way, privatization over the stock market! That's a good way, that's the right way for the Voest! – That is why we have every reason to say: No political interference, but we do what the company itself wants. This privatisation via the stock exchange is a good way for the company. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Question No 3, by Mr Cap, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is asking for the benefit of this privatisation. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: There's no levelless way! That's last-class!]] – Ladies and gentlemen! A little look back: In the time when the Republic – and this was the case for many years – had 100 percent state property in the Voest, the Voest has committed deficits for decades. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures]] During the 100-percent state property period at voestalpine AG, a total of €3.8 billion of loans had to be committed to the company, and the taxpayer took over the liability and refinancing for this. [[Abg. Bures: Answer the question!]] And that was the reason – that was the reason! – why climate as Minister of Finance, Vranitzky as Federal Chancellor said: That's not how it goes! The only way the Voest leads to success is to partial privatisation. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Question!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You do not need to worry, therefore, that we are now striving for full privatisation – we are continuing what social democracy has begun in responsibility for the Voest and what it now wants to know nothing about in the opposition. [[Abg. Bures: Answer the question!]] The current debate shows that the interference of politics in the Voest is harmful. We are taking a wise course with the privatisation via the stock market. [[Abg. Bures: Answer the question!]] This will lead to the independence of the Voest, which will lead to the success of the Voest on the market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As far as Question 4 is concerned, you know that this question is not within the scope of the Federal Ministry of Finance. I have received an opinion from the ÖIAG, which I may quote as follows: The assessment of voestalpine is based on the exchange price. This course results from supply and demand and is therefore not influenced by policy. The exchange price is influenced by many components: economic success of the company, turnover, EBIT, earnings of the company, economy, general stock market situation. Question 5: I should also like to quote an opinion from the ÖIAG: The 9 percent VA-Tech shares were sold at a price of € 24.65 – the book value per share was € 15.5. This corresponds to a package price of about €33 million. ÖIAG continues to hold a 15 percent share. An Austrian investor has purchased a package of almost 20 percent, but not from ÖIAG. I am very glad that a strong Austrian nuclear shareholder has developed, a core shareholder who obviously has a long-term interest in this company. With the Böhler-Uddeholm, ÖIAG has succeeded the same thing: a strong Austrian nuclear shareholder outside the ÖIAG. This is a good way for these companies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Questions 6 and 10 I can pull together. On the basis of the depoliticization of the ÖIAG carried out by this Federal Government, the Federal Minister for Finance exclusively exercises the rights of the Republic of Austria as sole owner of the ÖIAG in the Annual General Meeting. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] That is, as Minister of Finance, there is no right to influence as regards the conclusion of board contracts, and that is a good thing. I would nevertheless like to tell you what measures we have taken. First of all, I have a letter from 2nd grade. April 2003 all companies within the competence of the Federal Ministry of Finance point to the imperative application of the Employment Act and the Contract stencil Regulation. That is not a question. I asked Chairman of the Supervisory Board Dr Heinzel for a report. I made this report available to the President of the Court of Auditors. I asked for an examination of the Financial Procuratorship, and there was a discussion between President Elder and Chairman of the Supervisory Board Heinzel. The President of the Court of Auditors has already acknowledged the progress made in this discussion in public. I'd like to hold on: There has been no criticism by the Court of Auditors at the level of the board of directors. Question 10: There is no damage and therefore, of course, no claims for damages against the Supervisory Board. Since you played so high the stencil regulation and the breach of this stencil regulation, I would like to give you a 2000 Court of Auditors report on 1. In August 1998, on the question of the postal board's contracts, lay the heart at the heart of the post. It clearly states that the contract stencil regulation has been broken under Federal Minister Edlinger, and I am not aware that you had filed a distrust request against Edlinger at the time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] As far as Question 7 is concerned, I would like to point out that I have a duty of confidentiality in this regard and therefore cannot inform you of the ÖIAG's statement on the Court of Auditors' report. Question 8: The Financial Procuratorship has made a legal assessment of the infringement of the contract stencil regulation at the request of the Federal Ministry of Finance. I can make these available in writing to the President in the sense of the time economy and ask him to distribute them. On the question 9: Of course, anti-privilege legislation is being implemented. Negotiations between the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board have already been started. I am concerned that this will be implemented and corrected as quickly as possible. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: I say to you that with us a relapse to the old national policy of the 1970s is no longer possible. [[Abg. Bures: That was embarrassing enough, Minister of Finance!]] We stand for a modern economic and financial policy, for modern conditions, for an interesting location and for a continuation of privatisation for the benefit of the employees and the company.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3057	We are now going into the debate. I would like to refer to the Rules of Procedure announced at the outset. The first speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. 8 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3092	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Although the Minister for Finance did not answer the questions he had been asked, he offered an interesting insight. He has informed us today that his economic understanding has stopped at the level of 1927, and that is exactly what his policy looks like! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In addition, the Minister of Finance has talked about something which is not at all for the debate. He has pretended that the state would own 100 percent of voestalpine and we discussed today whether there is a privatisation or not. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The majority sold the SPÖ!]] That's completely wrong. The truth is that today 65 percent of voestalpine is in private hands and not quite 35 percent in public hands. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Sold by the SPÖ!]] And this mixed ratio was the basis for the economic success of voestalpine, which was the basis for the rise to one of the most successful steel companies in Europe. And this path has proved true, Minister of Finance! For what you propose, there is no proof! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They say that total privatisation is a continuation of partial privatisation. This is completely wrong, because the previous ownership relationship has guaranteed two things: firstly, that there can be no enemy takeover due to this blocking minority, that is, the company is stable, and secondly, through the private participation of the pressure to generate profits and keep the company up to date. What you are proposing and projecting now is that the stability column of the Voest is broken down and only more is done after whether shareholders will thus achieve more or less large price gains. Mr Finanzminister! This may be extremely pleasant for a future shareholder of voestalpine, but for the economic location Austria, for employees and for the entire supplier industry, this is absolutely no guarantee of a good future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They thus praise the role of financial investors. – Mr Finanzminister! I don't know how you've been working on this, but a financial investor buys certain stock titles with a very clear objective: If the stock prices rise and a higher price can be achieved for him, then this financial investor will re-sell these shares because it is his basic objective to have a better interest rate of its capital used. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's wrong! He wants a dividend!]] Therefore, it is perfectly clear if in two years... Mr. Stumbling! I know you may be one of those who personally benefit from it, but the employees in the company will unfortunately have nothing of it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Do not try to create the illusion that you can sell the voestalpine and at the same time continue to be the owner, because all you have told us here: [[Abg. Ellmauer: This is cheap polemic!]] Keeping the decision-making centre in Austria, expanding research and development, and so on, is just a wish list to the future owners of voestalpine. These have no obligation as soon as they are the owners of voestalpine to comply with these wishes. Therefore, your warranty declarations are nothing but matt statements of intent that you use to get over the Upper Austrian country election campaign. This is dishonest, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Shame! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Moreover, it is not a question of whether the State manages or does not manage businesses. I don't know if you know what ÖIAG looks like long before you've become finance ministers: In each of these companies there is a professional management, in each of these companies does not manage the state. The State is to a certain extent With ownership of these companies, and any owner, any private owner, will carefully deal with his property. But since you believe – and that is right! – it is not your private property, but the property of the Austrians, I tell you: If it were your private property, you would never sell the voestalpine, Mr. Finanzminister! [[Congratulations and bravado with the SPÖ and congratulation with the greens.]] They have not mentioned any reason for this – not a single reason! -, why now on 18 November. In September 2003, voestalpine was to be totally privatized. No reason! You have not been able to imagine that now is the highest share price and you may get a lot of money for your budget. You have not been able to say that there is a danger in the next few months and that is why you should be afraid of the company's stock. They have not been able to show that, unlike the current practice, there is a different perspective. They have not mentioned any reason, and this makes the Austrian population quite suspicious. An Austrian parade company is obviously to be sold here to a Clique, which will make a huge business. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: You confuse this with Bank Austria!]] Mr President, it is obvious that the debate is no longer being followed. I mean, however, that all that he said in the "standard" is absolutely right, because what you are doing here is not a privatisation, but you are trying to make public ownership of ÖVP property, and that is neither privatisation nor economic policy, my very much revered Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You claim you had rehabilitated the ÖIAG. – It is shown to you by all serious economic journalists that in the past the duo Hollweger/ Becker has carried out a large part of the privatisation, then Strings and Ditz, and that the current management of the ÖIAG, even as regards privatisation, is the most unsuccessful, the best-paid management, the management that has triggered the largest Tohuwabohu in privatisation. Mr Finanzminister! Draw the consequences: Let the Voest work in peace and develop! Stop You this privatisation – this is a command of the hour!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3243	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Molterer. Speech time: 8 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3261	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! And above all: Dear employees of voestalpine! If there had been a need for proof that privatisation was correct, ladies and gentlemen, then this discussion would have brought this very evidence. What Mr Cap and Mr Gusenbauer have now said is actually the argument why privatisation is correct. Mr Gusenbauer, if you say that the Voest is to be developed in peace: Yes, that is what we want, and privatisation is the right way for that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This summer, which Mr Gusenbauer – you have to go to the culinary scene – started with a recipe, namely the recipe of the enjoyment man, that perhaps a cone should be driven into the coalition with asparagus food. – It won't work again today. He asks for a second special meeting, so that Erich Haider in Upper Austria will receive Sagittarius. I'll tell you: There are obviously no topics for the SPÖ in Upper Austria, because the country Upper Austria is well managed by Josef Pühringer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Mr. Pühringer also needed a little shot help!]] Mr Gusenbauer is today looking for privatisation in this culinary, in this recipe. I think this is a very interesting issue, Mr Gusenbauer, because it is also possible to find out important differences in your party's economic policy and what we want. The recipe, Mr Gusenbauer, after which you cooked in the national policy in Austria, is still in our stomachs today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Very hard in the stomach!]] The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that only between 1981 and 2000 the debt in the ÖIAG increased to €6.3 billion in writing. This is converted into Schilling, ladies and gentlemen, at the ÖIAG in 2000 a debt of 87 billion! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Who was then Minister of Economic Affairs?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Marizzi: Who was your Minister for Economic Affairs?]] [[Call the SPÖ bowl!]] Mr Gusenbauer! Between 1982 and 1999 – want to do that [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel!]] You obviously do not like to hear it, but I will say it anyway – between 1982 and 1999, ladies and gentlemen, from the budget an amount of say and write 3.8 billion schilling to ÖIAG companies. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] That is 52 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen. And this is the effect of socialist national policy: Apart from taxpayers' money – for ÖIAG's debts – 50 000 jobs have been lost at the same time! Ladies and gentlemen! We know this recipe. This is still in our stomach today, and that will certainly not be the recipe for the future, with which Austria will be kept fit for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let's stick to the theme of Voest. – As Upper Austria, I say to you: I understand the emotionality of this debate. The Voest, yes, that's a management company. But we must not forget – and we will not forget it and point out – that just a few years ago this voest was in a deep, yes, existential crisis. It has not been long since we discussed in this House whether the Voest is a bankruptcy. And do you know what happened then? – It has been given the right answer, and I do not want to say that the right answer was then under Chancellor Vranckky and Federal Chancellor Climate to initiate the privatisation of the Voest. And if we can say thank God today: Yes, this success story of Voest has led us to have a parade company that we have a company that is in broad areas world market leader that we have a company that is innovative, a company that is competitive, then the cause is that privatisation has been initiated, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore it is in the interest of Voest, the employees, and the business location Austria, to continue this line in a consistent way. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Why do you change it then?]] I would like to tell you what annoys me in the debate today: You can't do economic policy a la..., I don't know when. You are questioning... – So with your Otto Bauer you have to do it yourself. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's the grass!]] I will not interfere, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Why are you talking nonsense like that?]] They question private investment today, at a time when this successful Voest already owns 66 percent private shareholders and employees! Yes, does that mean that you question private property and responsibility for it? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What kind of nonsense are you talking about?]] I'll turn the spear around and tell you: Only because the Voest has gotten this opportunity – through a reasonable political decision – is the Voest today where it is, can it invest, the employees have employment, has the Voest success and can actually occur professionally on the world market. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Why do you change it then?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Why do you change that?]] Not least that – not least that! – the management of voestalpine AG supports exactly this course of the Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen! This management also knows why: because it does not want to fall back in certain times. Now I'm quoting something you probably won't like very much: The Socialist Party Board unanimously approved the proposal by Federal Chancellor Kreisky to appoint, instead of the divorced ÖIAG Director General Spirit, its deputy Green Forest to function and instead of Green Forest, to appoint the central works councillor of the Voest, Walter Brauneis. - Quote. That's how it was: It was decided in the SPÖ's party board! This time is over, ladies and gentlemen. [[Lively condolences with the ÖVP.]] That you have a problem with this, I understand, because you must, for example, answer that a trade union bank is sold to Germany at a high percentage. You have to be responsible for the fact that Bank Austria has become a flop of 100 percent, because now the Austrians have to buy cheaper. It's wrong what happened! And you have to answer the pleurisy of the “consumer! ” Mr Gusenbauer! I would never climb to what you said today – never rise! I would not say that Hannes Androsch, who has taken over 100 percent of salinants and now runs a successful company, has de facto become the owner of SPÖ property. I'd never say that. I would never say that for example, 100 percent ownership of AT & S is by Androsch and Dörflinger SPÖ property. If you keep it that way with private companies that are willing to take risks, you have today exposed yourself to economic policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] We will take a course, ladies and gentlemen, which ensures that the Voest remains an Austrian company, that the Voest will be successfully led into the future with a strong core shareholder as a company – in the interest of the employees and in the interest of the country.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3521	The next speaker is Mr Walch. Speech time: 8 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3539	Mr President. Dear Federal Chancellor! Dear members of the government! Mr Cap, Mr Gusenbauer! Today you make such a “weather” because in Upper Austria you are country elections. You have long faced the interests of Voestler! We are the ones who preserve the voest and secure the jobs. [[Congratulations and bravado with the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] - Please listen! I shall put forward a motion for a resolution today, and then you will withdraw yours. [[New ironic hustle and bustle at SPÖ.]] Please: Read – think – talk! I really have to say to Mr Cap's statement: It's interesting! There, Mr Cap turns out to be from the SPÖ and criticizes the “corruption” of the nationalists. – Mr Cap and Mr Gusenbauer! I need to help you get a bite on your feet: Who sold most of the national lights in Austria? - It was you! During your reign you sold more than 50 percent of the national lights! But not only that: You left us a lot of debt, worth 2,200 billion. Tens of thousands of hard-working employees have lost their jobs there due to the lack of SPÖ's economic policy. That's how it looks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And it is also interesting how this is handled at SPÖ. Mr Haider from the SPÖ Upper Austria and Mr Gusenbauer are not in agreement. We liberals already agree, Upper Austria and Vienna. [[lively ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] May I quote colleagues from Upper Austria, “New Volksblatt” – please listen, otherwise you can’t tell anything outside again! –: [[ongoing calls to the SPÖ]] [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] There is no reasonable reason to sell the winning company voestalpine, the Upper Austrian reds compete in the election campaign. - So far, Haider. What does Gusenbauer say? – Gusenbauer says: There are no good reasons for state ownership in production companies. However, I am in favour of an Austrian core shareholder who is supposed to be private. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Yeah, what's going on? – Mr colleague, you will not be under the name of the “New Volksblatt” that you are going to turn your interview around there?- Oh, my God! They belong to you, don't they? I don't know who they belong to. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is also ÖVP property!]] Why does voestalpine have to be privatized at all? – Because under a socialist government – or although the ÖVP was there too, we have now brought it so far that we are together – together! – preserve the nationalized in the way it belongs. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] For this we are the Freeman in Austria, and I am proud of that too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 6.3 billion Schilling OEIAG debt has left us the socialist finance ministers and Federal Chancellors! The Minister of Finance and EIA and FPÖ have chosen the procedure to reduce the debt there. And behold, something happened to you, which is, of course, unthinkable: Within two years we have the debt of 6.3 billion – well watch out! – reduced to 2 billion! That's how it looks! Despite the debts you left behind, we have got under control by ÖVP and FPÖ as the only one. Now to the special meeting. I need to tell you a little bit about what your friends are doing in the voest. In the voest there is an balloon action, and in this balloon action a socialist trade unionist reports and says: We must do everything we can to break this coalition! – In reality, that means: The voest's us anyway, we just want to blow the coalition. – He said that there before about 50 people, and there you showed your true face! [[Abg. Scheibner: Abuse is that! That's great!]] Dear Voestlers! Let the liberals and the ÖVP represent you there accordingly! Then you will get your jobs and the location will be secure! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] One deals with the really dubious arguments in the Upper Austrian election campaign, with the Voestlers or with their workplace, because Landeshuptmann deputy Haider says publicly: Now the Russians are already interested and want to buy the Voest! – You would have sold them, we won’t sell them. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] And: The case of Strull is only the tip of the iceberg. There was something wrong with the law, but then there is a Supervisory Board Chairman Stringer – SPÖ – there is the Supervisory Board member Central Works Councillor Oberchristl – SPÖ – where there is as Supervisory Board member Sulzbacher – SPÖ – and they express their full confidence! For such a thing, you get up to ten years of imprisonment in other countries! Yeah, the Scharinger was there, too. [[Call the SPÖ:Scharinger!]] I'm also criticizing that. But now the legislator is on the train! He should check what really happened. If we did this to employees in the private sector, we would be dismissed without time and used to replace costs. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think it's... Oh, it's about to end! [[The red lamb on the speaker's sleeve begins to flash.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I could name a whole list of names and show what you have done with the employees in the state as far as your debt policy is concerned, and much more. However, we liberals, together with the ÖVP, have tabled a motion for a resolution – now I only have to find it (the speaker in his documents; Cheerfulness) – in which – I have already found it; be careful! – the Landtag Decision of all the parties in Upper Austria is included. You will certainly withdraw yours if I have read ours. The motion for a resolution is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm looking for you: Cancel your requests, provided you have some! This is employee policy, that is economic policy – only in this way can one secure a location or a voestalpine and the jobs in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3755	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Walch, Dr. Mitterlehner and colleagues on the continuation of the successful privatisation measures by the Austrian Federal Government is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Werner Kogler. He's also talking to us for 8 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3780	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! According to such hectic and moist debates, one needs to focus on the essentials with a sober perspective and objective findings. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But technically competent!]] Perhaps we can use half a minute to dispute a few things, even between four political groups. First of all, the point that no one will argue that in the long history of the nationalized industry after the war, it was important to carry out the nationalization that there were then crises and difficulties that cost the taxpayer a lot of money. We must also add, however, that more tax money has been used throughout Europe during the period of the steel crisis and that there are now much more subsidies in agriculture. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Nothing against agricultural subsidies, but perhaps we can calm down a little and focus our attention on the essentials, and it is also essential – and all four parties should also confess – that the Voest has written a unique success story in recent years, as many here probably would not have thought possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Yes, because it was restructured, absolutely right! You can also say that you don’t even have to use the word “give. ” To do this, they say yes because it was properly restructured – but with what ownership structure? Obviously with the one that is now present: a mixed property structure. Mr Gusenbauer explained that I do not have to repeat it: It is an optimal owner structure for the development of the voest in which it is now located. We have a voest concept that can continue to be successful – since you have to use the conjunctive: be – so that the diversification and expansion of this company can continue. Why is that so important? Voestalpine is unique in Europe as regards the corporate structure: On the one hand she has a steel segment, on the other hand she is a car supplier. It manufactures special metals that no one else can produce; therefore, there is the interest of Magna. And what happens in this situation? Instead of looking at this completely ideology-free and saying: For the next few years, there's nothing to privatize here – that would have to happen to you somehow Spanish – the Federal Government comes around the curve, gets in and screams: Hold the thief, because the state is a bad businessman! This is your performance that you gave here in 2000, and you have to defend yourself against it! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That doesn't even have that much to do with ideology. I guess so, but it could rule this consensus, but no: It must be ensured that the friends and the surroundings of Mr. Scharinger receive shares in voestalpine at the best possible prices. [[Abg. Großruck: A successful economic operator!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] And that's what you call depoliticization in Upper Austria. That's how it looks! If we are in Upper Austria right now, my colleague: You have the situation there that a bank director holds a head of state. That's the problem! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And Mr. Pühringer pretends to be head of state. In fact, it has long been the case that he should act as a switch official in the branch. Now we have the problem that this privatisation should be done via the stock exchange. There would be different ways of privatisation. A way was cut off from the EU, quite clearly, for it said: Strategic Investors Can Don't rule out them like that! That's what we're going to come back to. Now you do privatization over the stock market. But even there it is really not that easy, even there you have to turn the thing so that at the end a few black and black companies are left with mussels and mogels – technically. But you will be able to do further massive damage to the Vienna Stock Exchange Square – Mr. Prinzhorn knows it. And you go here and say that's good for the capital market! They disagree in the back and in the front! If you finally have a few single owners, you have no influence on them at all. I think it is very strange that the political groups of the Greens and the Social Democrats of the EIA, a conservative and economic-liberal party, should at least explain what market economy is. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Private is private, and you can't do it anymore. They announce here a bowl/grasser-market-economic-communist model. They want to privatize according to the motto: Wash me the fur, but don't make me wet, and afterwards pretend as if you were going to rule. This is unbelievable from the beginning to the back, and it does not even live until the election day in Upper Austria. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You have no guarantee that in the post- and possibly very short period of time exactly these shares of the strategic investors you want to exclude – we have shown you in the Industrial Committee, Mr. Finanzminister, that you want to keep people at fault – then you will be bought out with a very high offer. I'm telling you, there's evidence for this. They call your presentation at the Council of Ministers, which reads: Through syndicates with industrial partners the whole thing has to be produced. Whoever reads the “Kurier ” today can read: All those named by you, Scharinger Group, First, Oberbank, don't want any syndications. Why don't they want any syndications? Because, of course, they do not want to bind themselves – and they are right, I think, from the point of view of their owners. There's no connection afterwards, even if you explain this to the people. This is the problem of this procedure. The last one: the low price. You obviously harm the taxpayer, otherwise it would not be possible for you to talk about price imagination. I'll tell you one thing: Phantasing You do not talk about the courses, but make a good economic and tax policy. That would have been appropriate for a long time. Otherwise, take the hat at last! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I should like to invite the Upper Austrian Members of the FPÖ and the ÖVP to vote in favour of a motion for a resolution which I will now submit, namely to secure and guarantee the Voest site in Austria: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, please agree. You don't know, with your orientation problems in your sitting, you're now under the tabletop or above. Under the plate because you are not caught by the fall, or above the plate, because you have already been pulled over the table again. [[Abg. Scheibner: With your level you are very, very down! In the last basement you stand with your level!]] Come on. They point out somewhere on this page, but confess You're finally! The only thing that is new to my colleague's head is that he says different things in the two-hour rhythm, yesterday still in the day rhythm. You fired it as a credible party! Go inside, and don't light up the public with her boarding school! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3913	Ladies and gentlemen! Before I give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, I would like to point out that the last sentence of the motion for a resolution by Mr Walch and Dr Mitterlehner of the applicants Maximilian Walchden has not been read. If, therefore, this sentence is to be introduced, I ask the neighbor, the co-applicant Dr. Mitterlehner, to read this sentence. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Walch! Read – think – talk!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The request of MEPs Kogler, Sburny, friends regarding security decision against the sale of voestalpine AG is under negotiation. He is sufficiently supported. But here too I ask for clarification. The written request reads: “Don’t be sold by the ÖIAG for the time being”, Mr Kogler said, “retain”. So I would also ask the next speaker of the Greens to clarify what has been brought in. The Federal Chancellor, who speaks to us for 4 minutes, now comes to speak. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3955	Mr National Council President! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Voestler on top of the gallery! Today is an important discussion, for which we expressly thank the Government Bank for the SPÖ opposition, because it gives us the opportunity to clarify what we are actually planning with the Voest and why this is in the interests of the company and in the interests of the workforce. Thank you, Alfred Gusenbauer! [[It was a surprise to the ÖVP, to representatives of the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Could you ever have!]] You have asked some very interesting questions, and I can also address them. The first question was: Is now the right time? The answer is clearly yes – I can explain it to you immediately. You have criticized the course with which we are now entering the privatisation. Mr Gusenbauer! I would recommend that you look at the course at which the then government, led by a SPÖ Federal Chancellor and a SPÖ Finance Minister, sold 63 percent of the Voest shares. It was 20 € at the time! Today the course is 36 €. So with confidence, this development is not bad. Thanks to the employees and management for this great development of the Voest! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Second point: You should decide what you really want. On the one hand, especially Erich Haider in Upper Austria, you criticize the fear of foreigners: The Russians are coming! The takeover by enemy abroad is taking place! – That is, I believe, a legitimate concern, which the employees in particular will have in the company, and you have to give a correct answer to that. But the answer, dear friends, can't be that I will then qualify every Austrian interested person either as a derision guide, as a mind, as a beggar or whatever! I do not want to allow us to devalue Austrian owners and shareholders! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I want an Austrian Voest! I want a company where the employees have a strong position! And with an employee foundation where you will have 10 percent of the shares, you have an extremely strong share law position! [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Thank you, Max Walch, Reinhold Mitterlehner, Werner Tancsits, the Upper Austrian Member and our employee representatives! This is a living worker policy to make employees their own businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Gusenbauer, you said first that the ÖIAG has done a bad job in our time. May I correct the numbers a little. Pure dividend revenues between 1996 and 1999, during the time when SPÖ Chancellors and SPÖ Finance Ministers were responsible for it At that time 300 million total dividends were received. [[Abg. Reheis:... Alzheimer's!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] In our time, 2000 to 2002, also three years, 826 million dividends have been received. So who is better, Mr Gusenbauer? The comparison is clear in our favor! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The same applies to privatisation proceeds. Mrs Prammer, you do not have to smile, the figures are clear: 1996 to 1999 € 1.2 billion Privatisation proceeds, in our time € 3.3 billion Privatization proceeds. So the comparison is quite clear, the comparison makes sure: Our policy is clearly better for taxpayers, for citizens and for businesses! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Ready time! Talk time!]] The last point, Mr Gusenbauer: You smiled when it was called, the FPÖ is not agreeable. You don't agree! Today you want to have a government core shareholder. They themselves declared in November: There are no reasons for State ownership in production companies. I am in favour of an Austrian core shareholder who can be quite private. Let's stick to this line! - That was the right cast farmer. This is our line for which we stand, and I agree with you: Leave the voest alone!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4096	Next speaker: Mr Keck. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4114	Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor has just said: I want to! And I tell the Chancellor that he has to want what the Austrian people want, and the Austrian people do not want to sell out Austrian property, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Look at the gallery! Don't laugh now, turn your look at the gallery, and see these people sitting up there, in the face! Look these people in the eye! Then you will notice that these people are afraid of the future, fear of their family and fear of their workplace. [[Call to the ÖVP and the Free: Before you! Before you!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Tens of thousands of jobs have you broken down! You must be scared!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] For these people up there, ladies and gentlemen, are employees of voestalpine from Styria, are employees of voestalpine from Linz and are employees of voestalpine from Lower Austria. To this day, these people could not be mentioned as a clear reason why you want to sell the voestalpine. No reasonable economic or logical national arguments were put forward. And everyone knows that a sale destroys the growth strategy of the company and, of course, jobs. And everyone also knows that, after total privatisation, no one can guarantee the cohesion of this company any more, nor can the stay of the Group headquarters, research and development in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Tell me, ladies and gentlemen: Why does this federal government want to sell when all investors try to increase their shares in voestalpine?- Oh, my God! Explain it to me, and explain it to these people at the top of the gallery, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! There is no objective reason for the sale of voestalpine! There must be other motives for bowls, grasses and co. There are no economic and economic reasons for the sale of voestalpine, and there are no economic reasons for the sale of voestalpine. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm telling you, you're finally learning: The Minister of Finance is not the owner, he is the owner only, so the trustee for the actual owners, and that is – and that's what you write behind the ears! – all Austrians! And not you, not the Federal Government, and not the Minister of Finance Grasser! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Remember at last that the overwhelming majority of our citizens want at least 25 percent plus a share to remain in their possession. The majority does not want an oberösterreichisch-Austrian solution, as the Upper Austrian head of state Pühringer always prays. This majority does not want a solution at all, because the voestalpine has nothing to do with it, but nothing has to be resolved either, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any case, it is clear that the Minister of Finance misunderstands his role. He is not a stock dealer to whom the Austrians have entrusted their money to deal with their shares. He misunderstands his business. Mr Finanzminister – I would be grateful if you would be careful – if you saw otherwise, say goodbye You're finally in your private business so highly praised! Try to prove there what you have never shown here, because here in this house your balance is quite poor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this House are freely elected representatives of the people. Each of these mandates has the task of exercising and implementing the will of the people, of its electorate in voting behaviour without any party-political influence. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] I therefore call on the Styrian, Lower-Austrian and, in particular, all Upper-Austrian Members of the Government to compare subsequent motion for a resolution with their consciences and then to vote as the electorate of their electorate wishes. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria needs a voestalpine, and Austria needs the voestalpine employees in a constellation as it is now present. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, you see the people at the gallery in the vote in the eye!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4256	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Keck by Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Verzetznitsch, Mr Keck, Mr Dobnigg and Mr Colleagues concerning the protection of the industrial site of Austria by the ÖIAG as a core shareholder of voestalpine AG, introduced in the course of the urgent question of Dr. Cap and colleagues concerning ‘friendly economy instead of economic policy on the example of ÖIAG and voestalpine’, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. [[As the applause continues, President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You've had enough time to express your condolences. The last speaker, a greener, will no longer have the time. The next speaker is Mr Reinhold Mitterlehner. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4289	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear employees of the Voest! Mr. Keck, could you possibly misunderstand your role? Could it be that exactly what you have mentioned is that there is fear that emotions are there – but because you scared them because instead of using material information on this subject to stage political theatre in the face of the lack of land-based topics here? [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, ladies and gentlemen from the Social Democratic area! If you want to know something about the economy of friends, if you want to get hurt, read the Court of Auditors report on the years to 1999 which has been referred to several times! There you will find enough in it when it comes to free procurement when it comes to concealing public property. Look After what you did at AMAG in 1996: 1.2 billion schilling grants made to a schilling sell a year later. A year later, in 1998, the company made 400 million schilling profits. There you can see how to really deal with state property if you have the responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Cap! I will tell you a few reasons why you should privatize today and really today, in these days and not later. First point: the Polittheater. The company should actually work quietly and not be pulled in here, which is no longer objective. Second point: Have you ever noticed why Austria has so few listed companies? – This is linked to the fact that the capital market is not working properly here, because far too long the state that has held public-owned stock packs. The stock exchange welcomes it when the stock exchange is privatized here, because at last everyone can finance themselves accordingly through the capital market in Austria and do not have the problems like up to now. Third point: Private investors decide on profitability, and public owners decide according to other criteria. And you've always made that mistake. Read in the explanatory remarks on the question of nationalization in 1946! This is a major objective, namely the creation of employment. And you've always believed you can realize that. And it had to be paid heavy teaching money if someone believed he could intervene in the market. And then the Wifo reports say: The voest has gained in productivity. Unfortunately, this productivity was suffered. Why did you suffer? – Because we have fewer jobs there because you believed you could act against the market, and in the end it was wrong. Therefore, any decision by an owner against the market is a decision against the company, a decision that preserves the structures, a decision that costs jobs and public assets. We have experienced everything exactly in the form and unfortunately must understand painfully. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, privatisation is the right way to act here in accordance with the economic situation. And if you want the proof that it's true, also from another, I'll read you a quote from Stephan Schulmeister: “There is no sustainable argument for government participation in all those areas where there is private entrepreneurship if one is really interested in economic functions and not in hidden political sub-targets.” And this is exactly what you are talking about, ladies and gentlemen. Why did Mr. Keck scream like this? – Because he is concerned with maintaining a socialist area of rule, because he is concerned with ensuring his means of influence and those of his colleagues, because he is concerned with the influence of post-posting. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We don't want one. We do not want new privileges for the ruins of these times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And for the second: You, ladies and gentlemen, carry out these goals on the back of the staff. And I find that particularly strange and particularly remarkable. And now you say in this context, now the company is being ruined. Mr Cap, I do not understand the contradiction: On the one hand, you say you should reach the highest price, then you are for a strategic owner. If you are for a strategic owner, you are for foreign participants. So here you are in conflict with your own request. I think it is now the right time to privatize, just as the resolution in the last sentence says: “The National Council assumes that the bodies of the ÖIAG determine the optimal time and proceeds of privatisation on the basis of the above criteria.” I'll tell you: If we did not, the discussion would continue, the course would fall, the interests of the employees would be damaged and this would give speculators the opportunity to enter into this and de facto do what we do not want to bring the Voest under their control. The right way, the right time: Privatization now!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4358	Mr Mitterlehner has read the lack of the final sentence of the motion for a resolution, which is therefore fully filed and is under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4473	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Magnette for Dr. Bleckmann speaking. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4492	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Colleague Keck of the SPÖ has made such a kind of Keck’s spokesperson, or: As the tick thinks, so is he: The majority does not want a solution at all. – Yes, the majority of SPÖ does not want a solution! You want to get back here on these benches so you can sit up again. [[the speaker refers to the ministerial bank]] That is why he said that you or the Austrians do not want a solution. You're wrong. The Austrians also want a solution for the Voest and are interested in the fact that there are solutions in the sense of Austria. And that's what we liberals use for. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] Yes, read the motion for a resolution! That's what it says: ‘It is necessary to ensure that, in the case of a final sale decision, the objectives set out below are met’, namely ‘the increase of employee participation’. That's what I'm asking you: What exactly do you have from the SPÖ against the fact that employee participation is increased? These are the best shareholders, their own employees! These are the ones that should really have the greatest interest in the company. You'd have to say, Yes, even more should be sold to the employees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] – You do not want to, because the real interests of the employees are not your interests! However, we liberals very much want the employees to have a say. We also want the shares of Austrian shareholders to be expanded, employee participation increased and an Austrian core shareholder structure of more than 25 percent guaranteed. The important thing is that there is an Austrian core shareholder structure of over 25 percent, which ensures that Austrian interests are safeguarded. But I'm asking you: Why do you think that Austrian interests are not respected when Austrians take part? Or don't you trust the Austrians that they want the best for Austria? [[Abg. Scheibner: No, they want the politicians in there!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You have no idea, that's the problem! You see only through your red party glasses and fear that perhaps sensible, proper solutions will be made for Austria. That's the problem you have! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I miss the great words of the SPÖ when it comes to discovering scandals within the voest. I miss the call if the Director-General and the Supervisory Board of the Voest are under a cover when it comes to concealing the insider trade of the Director-General. In this context, I miss your shout! The Director-General knew that the stock will rise sometime, he quickly bought a few more shares and then wondered that his account was so much money because he had made very high profits. He then went to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and said: Looks like something happened to me. And then he said to him: I'll be fine if no one gets anything! Unfortunately, the matter of insider trade has become reckless and come to the public. With the resignation of the Director-General, there was a confession of guilt. But before that, the Supervisory Board, together with its Supervisory Board chairman, issued to the Director-General a personal license, knowing what happened there, namely insider trading. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who is the chairman there? - Strings!]] Where is the removal of the SPÖ from those persons operating in the Voest Misswirtschaft? – That’s the real scandal where there was no cry! Why didn't you call me? – You know the answer: The chairman of the Supervisory Board is your ex-college and your ex-minister string, and a red crow does not scratch an eye on the other. – This is the point: When it comes to your own comrades, your own privileges, your business of friends, there is silence in the SPÖ – in the case of Strull, in the case of Strings and also in the case of Vergestnich. There's silence! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Take a look at your own door before you throw stones here when you sit in the glass house, because if the stones themselves fall on your head, it can hurt very much. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Take a look at how you did privatizations, for example only with voestalpine mining technology. You have sold them, but you have given a grant of €35.5 million under your aegide. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Detto at the AMAG. Listen to this, maybe you didn't read it! I looked at how you privatized the SPÖ. In 1996, you gave a further €87.2 million grant. In 1998, shortly after the sale of the company, the company made profits at once. Before, however, the state still had to grant huge subsidies so that the company could be sold. That's the way you've run privatisation. They quickly gave the company money shortly before the sale and then sold it to friends, to their own shareholders. This is your way of privatizing! Be careful that if you sit in the glass house, you do not throw stones, because of privatisation you have no idea!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4605	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4623	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Government! Until a few months ago, actually weeks, there was no talk at all about selling the Voest – and that for good reason. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Stand in the government program!]] It was no mention of a current sale of the Voest. The government programme states that the Voest is to be sold within this legislative period, i.e. until 2006. And there is a very good concept that marks a successful path for the Voest until 2006. The Voest goes this way very successfully, and it was planned that it would continue until 2006. That means there was no reason at all for the Voest to be sold now. There has also been no problem now that, I understand, Mr Keck, there is a need for a solution. The only problem has been the intervention of the government in this matter, and now we really have a problem. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Federal Chancellor first said that the Voest has dropped €826 million in dividends in the last three years. I therefore ask you: Why does the Voest have to be sold now if it could get even better through the chosen route by 2006 if there could be more profit? What, then, has happened that now, at once, without regard to losses, without regard to the workers, on the holding and also on the economic situation in Austria, the Voest must be sold immediately? An article in the “profile” from the end of June that revealed a strange action “Minerva” where it became apparent that within the voest there was apparently a working group that planned to sell the voest to a strategic partner, probably Magna. This discovery by the “profile” article created a bit of unrest at once. It was not the voest that had the problem, but it was created by this working group which became known because no one wanted to sell to Magna or to a strategic partner. There was a corresponding uproar in the population, because it was clear: If that happens, then there is a breakdown of the voest and then several hundred, if not a thousand jobs are lost. So after this plan failed, there was a little uncertainty. Since then, there has been a zigzag course for the government: Sale to Magna yes, sale to Magna no, sale to strategic partners yes or no, to the end now, convertible bonds yes or no or in total via the stock exchange. In order to end this uncertainty, there have been applications in the Upper Austrian Landtag which should ensure that the ÖIAG remains a core shareholder because it was clear that this is the only way to bring security back to the company, to restore a calming of the situation and to ensure that the company is able to continue well. These applications were decided in the Upper Austrian Landtag and all had a core: 25 percent plus a share is said to remain owned by ÖIAG. The only one who never wanted this and who always kept himself covered was the head of state Pühringer, who had already spoken of a so-called Upper Austrian solution at the time. We now know what this above-story solution looks like. It is essentially the award of the ÖIAG shares to the Raiffeisenbank. That is the state of affairs the ÖVP is always talking about! What does Mr Grasser say today? – With this solution, we want to keep the headquarters in Austria, not a breakdown of the Voest. Safe jobs, strengthen the competitive situation, you want to say, with this change. How will you guarantee this? How will you, Minister Grasser, Mr Kanzler Schüssel, but also Mr Landeshauptmann Pühringer guarantee that the day after the stock exchange these parts will not be resold that neither the Raiffeisenbank nor the Oberbank, nor any other Austrian shareholder will resell these shares? How will you prevent this? How can you guarantee that there will be no resale at Voest or in Austria? – You can’t guarantee that! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In contrast to the government, as it is clear to us that it is a difference whether these 25 percent plus a share remain in the hands of the ÖIAG or in the hands of so-called Austrian shareholders, we ask you to accept our motion for a resolution, which leaves these 25 plus 1 in the hands of the ÖIAG.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4672	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). He'll talk for 4 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4692	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! My dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen. It meant a previous speaker in the discussion – it was the chairman of the Social Democrats – literally, and that was very striking for me: Let's just let the Voest work in peace! Mr Gusenbauer, let me say: That is what we want: let the Voest work in peace – without political influence! Ladies and gentlemen! Today to discuss whether the state is a good or less good entrepreneur is, I believe, lost time, because the evidence of this has been made sustainable and very clear in recent decades. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me – and I am very happy to do so – show you once on the basis of figures, how the course has actually developed, since one speaks of privatisation in the voest! As you know, this federal government is on 28 May. ==References====External links== ==References== It was announced in February 2003 that according to the government programme, the Voest should also be privatized by ÖIAG. Course at that time: 22,17, course on 1. September 2003: 36,3. This means an increase of 60 percent. This means that employees' shares have also increased by more than 60 percent, and these positive effects should also be mentioned today. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have discussed how we can best ensure that the maintenance of an Austrian core shareholder structure, the preservation of the company's unity, the preservation and expansion of research and development capacities, the maintenance of decision-making centres in Austria must be important concerns of policy-makers – not only in Upper Austria but, of course, throughout Austria. In a resolution that the government parties have developed in a good and constructive way, it is determined to increase employee participation, as far as possible, from 6.5 to 10 percent. This means, and this is also to be said at this point, that with 10 percent, except for changes in the statutes, all rights, all possibilities for employees are. – That was not the case in your time, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy! So if it says here that the shares of Austrian shareholders are expanded, employee participation is increased and an Austrian core shareholder structure is to be secured by more than 25 percent, then that is something we all obviously want. We are insecure with an inaccurate discussion of how it is led in part, the population, in particular the Voest, the affected employees and their families, and this did not deserve it from God. Let's end this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should make this discussion more flexible and realize that we actually have a common goal, namely to keep the extremely developing Voest at rest in the future and thus ensure that it can continue to develop well, that secure jobs are there, that the shares can rise, and that, above all, the core competence remains in the country. This is particularly important to me in the field of research and development, in which the Voest is something like a flagship in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4753	The remaining speaking time of 16 minutes I am dividing to the next speaker in such a way that each one speaks 4 minutes. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4775	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few clarifications at the beginning. Today, there have been many figures – by Mr Finanzminister, but also by Mr Bundeskanzler – called the Federal Minister for Rehabilitation Karl-Heinz Grasser. He's always talking about reducing from 6 billion to 2 billion. In fact, with accurate analysis it appears that during the period 1993 to 1999, Hollweger/Becker, 5.51 billion were generated in rehabilitation proceeds, in the period 2001, Strings/Dez – the period that was already initiated before – still amount to 3.2 billion, and the real proceeds in the time Wieltsch/Michaelis amount to 134 million €. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If you read and interpret ÖIAG's balance sheets, Mr. Federal Minister, you will find that in your time of government from 2001 to 2002, ÖIAG's equity fell from 48.4 to 48.15 percent. That is, you have brought about a worse situation, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the Federal Chancellor here claims that 826 million dividends have been paid to the ÖIAG in his term of office, I must say that my calculations have shown that they are only 379 million. - Where is the difference? I would like to ask for information here. Study ÖIAG's annual reports, and then you'll see how the dividend flows actually do! Legendary number three, which has been very massively presented today, the incredibly high subsidies to the state-owned industry. – Also a number: In the 1980s, a total of 900 billion schillings in Europe were introduced into the steel industry. Austria and the steel subvention of voestalpine was the last place, only Germany got less at the time. – Minister! Look Get closer to Austrian industrial history, and then talk about a success! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Legend number four, Minister for Finance: You say that you have contributed to the depoliticisation of the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG. – The truth is that in 1986 the conditions were created for the Supervisory Board to be unpolitically composed. People like Tessmar-Pfohl, Industrial President of Styria, Kessler, Kehrer, these were people who were sitting on the Supervisory Board at the time, and you're always talking about political officials?- Oh, my God! There is something wrong with your historical knowledge, Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Finanzminister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Finally, let me say that in the privatisation process of voestalpine there is a classical inconsistency with Mr Scharinger. He sits in the voestalpine Supervisory Board and is also a bidder for shares. – This is a classical incompatibility! It is also close to insider trading. It is therefore necessary that we draw attention to the supervision of the financial market. Mr President. For these reasons, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4862	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Moser by Mr Cap, Mr Kogler and others on the failure of confidence is therefore well supported. The next speaker for exactly 4 minutes is Mr Großruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4883	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! A question to Mr Moser: How much mistrust against the Minister of Finance was that? [[Abg. Nürnberger: Until he goes! Until it results!]] We already have inflationary mistrusts, and I can only tell you one thing: The more you put, the more you become disbelievable! We will always express our trust to our Minister of Finance, as you can bring in as many mistrusts as you want! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ is now a savior of the state-owned or even the economy in general. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] There I keep it with the Bible, where it says: By their deeds you will recognize them. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer shakes his head.]] Let us now look at the actions and, above all, the actions under SPÖ government, among SPÖ chancellors and finance ministers! ÖIAG's debt development from 1981 to 1990 was €4.8 billion or 70 billion schilling. By 1999 this debt rose to 90 billion schilling. Every Austrian – every Austrian, from her to her child – was involved in the national debt with more than 10,000 s per head. – These are the numbers we want to have spoken today. I remember the words of Chancellor Kreisky, who said: A billion schilling debts make me sleepless nights less than a unemployed person. – The resultant balance sheet was terrifying: 100 billion Schilling owes more and 50,000 jobs less. That was the record, ladies and gentlemen. At the latest on the basis of this equation, you need to realize that your economic policy does not go out. The state is a bad businessman – we know that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They want to be saviors of the national lights. Why, has it now come out clearly: You see the nationalized industry as a socialist self-service shop where you can drive, as you want to, where you occupy posts, as you want, where you employ people according to party books, as you want; an example is also the ÖBB, the discussion about it will still be held. – This has led to nothing, but it is your ideology, and it has come to light today. But she failed somewhere. You use yourself as in a self-service shop, you buy one, you order – and the taxpayer pays at the cash desk. This is your economic policy in the field of national lights. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Failed, ladies and gentlemen, you are at your own company, the “consumer”. I remember: This was also a self-service shop, but the taxpayer has not had to pay any more by law – in the end about the compensation of course – and you have sent the “consumer”, your own company, with 20 billion schilling debts into bankruptcy. Your Director-General Gerharter has been dealt with with by millions and sent to pension. – You have done that, and that has been guided by the Austrians when it comes to credibility! Here's the oberösterreichische Weg under the head of state Pühringer and ÖVP much prefers me, namely: To create framework conditions so that a proper economy is possible. The figures in Upper Austria, as far as economic policy is concerned, prove it. Grief reports such as "Buying Russians" or "Fearmaking" – this is perhaps the slogan of the SPÖ. We as ÖVP make hope, we give people optimism, and we solve problems. That distinguishes us from your policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this discussion about the Russians who supposedly want to come and buy to Linz, a four-liner: Comrade Alfred, as you know, once kissed Moscow's ground. Yes, that's how time changes – he's afraid of the Russians today’.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4957	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 4 minutes speaking time. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4975	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today's session is certainly not, as we might think, a decision-making session for the 5th. September, at which a Supervisory Board meeting of ÖIAG will take place. It is not about sale or non-sale, about jobs or not jobs, but rather a continuation of the social-democratic opposition strategy. I don't want to call this a summer theatre, ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to play with the feelings of the workers, the Voest staff here in this House. But you, ladies and gentlemen, and you can say that! – pursue a strategy of uncertainty, scandalisation. Mr Cap has said that money is being wasted here, the population is being disillusioned, the workers are being dispelled, the scandal has been spoken of. In the absence of – and I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy – real topics for Upper Austria, you are trying to lead here in this House your election campaign for the Upper Austrian Parliament! What actually happens? The SPÖ has declared its position. There is a motion for a resolution from the government coalition from ÖVP and the liberals who provide information on this issue, which is a clarification of this successful course of privatisation and which clearly shows this privatisation policy and its conditions. The aim is to strengthen employee participation from currently 6.4 to 10 percent – something which, in view of the share rights, puts Voest's employees into a completely changed, improved situation – and 15 percent of the shares will continue to remain in the Republic's power of disposal in the coming years. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian core shareholder structure is secured by more than 25 percent. It is not a question of filleting the company or demolition, and it is not about reducing employees, jobs – they will be secured and expandable in a successful company – but about keeping the decision-making centre here in Austria. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] Let me point out one point: If you read the motion for a resolution, you will find that the ÖIAG institutions have the best time to choose. So I'm sure there's no talk of sluggishing. The great way the Voest has taken is to continue. You recognize this when you look at the stock price. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Personally, Otto Bauer's statement from 1927 is all better than the debacle in the wake of social-democratic mismanagement and false financial policy, with which you have to end up. In figures: 8.72 billion € or 120 billion schilling or the loss of around 50,000 jobs at this time, I believe, volumes of what policy you have pursued.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5015	Your speaking time has expired, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5030	However, I am convinced that with this privatisation policy, Voest and its employees are going to be in a good future, and we wish them all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5057	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5076	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr Verkehrsminister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is clear in today's debate that you are presenting us with a perfide double game. You have repeatedly pointed out that you want Austrian nuclear shareholders, but you have not pointed out that there is no guarantee that the Austrian core shareholders will also retain the shares. Who, Mr. Bundeskanzler, is telling you that on account of any development, Mr. Director Scharinger is not forced to sell already tomorrow? We want a core shareholder in state hands, because there we have security. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The Voest and its employees deserve security, as well as the Upper Austrian economy, the subcontractors deserve security and guarantee. That is why I do not understand that 15 Upper Austrian Members of the Government will support this request by the Federal Government, which covers the future in complete uncertainty. Mr Mitterlehner! The subcontractors, small and medium-sized enterprises, depend on the Voest – how does their future look when there are no more Austrian nuclear shareholders? Can you guarantee that tomorrow, the next year, that in ten years still outweighs the Austrian package? Do you give me the guarantee for that? Mr Mayor – I know there are many mayors here – Mr. Mayor Ellmauer! Do you guarantee me that the Upper Austria solution remains an Upper Austria solution? I believe that – and this is clearly documented – the Upper Austria solution is a smooth re-politicization at national level. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Who's behind the investor? – These investors are clearly attributable to the ÖVP – the banks, partly the insurance companies; the Upper Austrian insurance is anyway a precursor organisation of the ÖVP and more or less also a co-owner of the head of state Pühringer and his policy! [[Abg. Großruck: Enter the economic data of Upper Austria!]] And this Upper Austria solution – or the Austrian solution, as Mr. Bundeskanzler says – has a very massive horse foot: It does not guarantee any security, it does not guarantee a future for Austrian companies, and it puts the Voest on sand in its current offensive stock market situation more or less in its future. [[Abg. Murauer: What guarantees do you have? Talk about your guarantees!]] And that's our problem: They put the voest on sand, on uncertain future prospects! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now, quite specifically, the question: If you sell over the stock exchange, who will then, as it were, offer with strawmen? – It is not guaranteed that certain funds do not have certain wires to Magna, that Frank Stronach is not at work in the background, and that he may not be able to form strategic majority by some shopping possibilities of anonymous shareholders. That is not to be ruled out, and on the other hand, let us keep our trust! That is why I should like to make the following request in all detail: [[Quoted print version removed]] Don't sell, that's the key word, because that means security – and it depends on it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5168	The motion for a resolution, which has now been corrected by Mrs Moser, corresponds to the written version, is under negotiation, and it is all right. Mr Herzegovina has now been notified to the House. His group's remaining speaking time: 8 minutes; voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5190	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think a small sum is already appropriate: FPÖ-Scheibner and ÖVP-Lopatka meant that this special meeting was a summer theatre. I tell you, Mr Scheibner, that you did this in the press on 28 October. August said! [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't say anything at all!]] –: This meeting is extremely important because you, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP, prove, with the proposal from Walch/Mitterlehner, that you first decide in law – according to the law of shares – impossible and that, second, you are unconditionally wasting the voest. [[Abg. Scheibner: The opposition has said that this is immense...!]] [[Abg. Scheibner:... but to their request they did not say anything!]] I'll tell you: You'll regret this day! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, your summer theme, ladies and gentlemen, your distraction maneuver Khol/Gehrer – party, children and so on – has, of course, gone a long way if even Minister Strasser finds something for “fucking”. He has good gastric nerves, which he needs in his own actions as far as the Gendarmerie is concerned, and that may mean something! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The role of the FPÖ in the whole. Mr Scheibner, I have to quote you again. ==References== In the context of the ÖIAG, you said April 2000 that in the future party policy will stand out from economic decisions. [[Abg. Scheibner: Nice to read my statements so well!]] Well, that's where I hold you against what your financial and budget spokesperson Prinzhorn said today. [[Abg. Scheibner: Well? And you're moving this into an election campaign! This is your...!]] He said that privatisation is purely party-political and benefits primarily from the ÖVP and its close investors. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: The date! The date, I said! Stay with the truth!]] – But this has not prevented you, Mr Prinzhorn, from cheering enthusiastically when the Minister of Finance has praised exactly what you have damned in the ground and the ground today. – So much for your sensitivity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] Oh, my God, at Princehorn, it's pretty easy: Either things benefit him or his friends – or it's bad and party policy. - But you're right today. The “FORMAT” also writes that the political influence has never been as harsh as it is now. A very special perception of the political influences of the Wirtschaftskammer-Boss Leitl, he says, Haider does not need to require a special meeting, it is enough to have a FPÖ party board. So, ladies and gentlemen, what about party influence, depoliticization? – To say something to State Secretary Finz today, I think, is superfluous. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: What about State Secretary Finz,...?]] But, Mr Jarolim, if you ask, I will be happy to come back to him. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Mr. Herbs, put your... back in the Court of Auditors Subcommittee!]] Privileges. – Mrs Colleague, because you, and above all the FPÖ privileges, have always done so beautifully. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You're a notary lawbreaker! A notable lawbreaker who does not comply with the Rules of Procedure!]] Where is the FPÖ, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to privileges? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You have not lost anything in the Subcommittee at all!]] – A manager was taken from Germany, who has long been on the finishing list in Germany. Do you know what that means? – This is a synonym for the fact that the finish is coming. You then doubled the salary, imposed 43 000 € rent aid, took 50 000 € for a move at the expense of taxpayers, and the shirts also allowed Mr. Dr. Michaelis to be washed by the taxpayer – or he had the washing paid for at least by him. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is the one who does not comply with the laws, who does not read the Rules of Procedure.]] And the Minister of Finance “is ashamed” because, in Austria, managers are paid so “small” salaries, these managers are treated so “dirty”! Where is the criticism of the FPÖ, ladies and gentlemen? On the subject of EIA and its economic policy. – My God, the commentators do not come out with a headline at all, so I will quote several: ‘Fuch at the sale of Voest; or How to leave millions lying. Government disregards the simplest business rules by means of time pressure’, or: “The privatisation of voestalpine is political puss”. – Political coup, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl:... read the “New Time”?]] As to “Rerule Austria, ” I quote from the “Small Newspaper”: “Rerule Austria – the old electoral campaign is slowly becoming a dangerous threat.” – That’s how it looks, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: There was no applause now!]] I would like to make the following request – you can help here, Mrs Fekter, if you want laws to be complied with in Austria –: [[Quoted print version removed]] So, but now there are some comments on the subject.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5449	Colleagues! The voluntary speaking time has expired. You can continue: The remaining legal speaking time is five and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5464	Thank you, Mr President. . I cannot spare you a quote from President Fierce, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, from 20th century. August 2003: ‘..., this regulation’ – Mr Finanzminister, Federal Chancellor! – “It was adopted by the Federal Government and therefore I believe” – in other words, “the Federal Government is also responsible for being respected.” If you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, do not agree with this motion for a resolution Dr. Cap, comrades and comrades, then you will behave in a way that is diametrically opposed to what President Fierce calls for, and also – I add this – Korinek. It speaks of a very worrying and dangerous situation for the rule of law. The economic damage you do is immense. The ÖVP confuses economic policy with party policy; the FPÖ is watching this drive, preventing control. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the electorate will present the bill to you. And you will receive the first deputies in Upper Austria and in Tyrol!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5499	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Cap regarding compliance with the Employment Act is properly filed and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. Here too, the situation is like this: Voluntary limit on speaking time: 5 minutes, remaining time of the ÖVP: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5520	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! We know that my colleague Herbs has a problem with private investors in Styria. He does not want the Red Bull chief Mateschitz to invest in Austria-ring either, because private investors are obviously something crazy “hazardous”. [[Abg. Scheibner: Everything against the Austrian companies!]] As a matter of fact, the SPÖ mayors also reach out to the head, and Colleague Herbs is in fact also alone within the SPÖ with this presentation. I would, however, like to say something to Mr Cap's question, as a matter of principle: It was striking during the last discussions here in this hall that basically a position is never formulated. One quotes from newspapers, one acts as a commentator of commentators, and one asks one question or another. [[Abg. Sburny: Minister Grasser too!]] I am glad that a question by Mr Cap has been left today, and I would like to refer to it now. He asked the question: Why does voestalpine have to be sold now? I would like to address less of the business facts, because the assessment by the management that privatisation, namely full privatisation, is a right way, I basically trust more than an evaluation from the SPÖ party headquarters. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to address the political debate because it is already interesting that in spring, although privatisation was decided on in the government programme, there was nothing to hear, there was no campaigning. Now, obviously, a few weeks before the country elections, is being campaigned! – It is actually very transparent. The SPÖ is not about the state losing influence – it's not about it at all – but about the fact that the SPÖ party headquarters in Linz and Vienna are losing influence – and that's good that way; I tell you very clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have delivered the proof of this in recent weeks, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ: Indeed, in an inconceivable way the red frights brigades in the companies have been mobilized again, and you have done a great deal of damage to the company from my point of view in an almost negligent way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dobnigg.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I can tell you a very personal experience: I was Voestler myself, for two years, I came to research and development in Leoben as a young academic. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls for representatives of SPÖ]] I just had the bad luck that in this department research and development was the last black works council body. And in order to get rid of this uncomfortable works councilman, one has simply and simply solved the research and development. [[Calls and calls between ODP and SPÖ MPs.]] 160 employees – gone! That's your policy – I can't provide you with a better example today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I think ladies and gentlemen, in this House, in our role as a politician and as a political leader, we should be a little more humble in dealing with the terms “location security”, “workplace security” and many other terms where we do as if we could secure these things. What actually secures – and voestalpine has proved this – a successful company? – A top management and staff who are willing to take this path on the world market! Both are thanks to God for the voestalpine to a sufficient degree. I would just like to add the following: What really is happening to me at the voestalpine is the redimensional of the works council structures. It is still unbearable for me that we have reduced 5,000 employees in Donawitz and today have four times as many works councils as in 1980! [[Mr Fekter and Mr Zweytick.]] This is a flaw, and you have your responsibility. I therefore ask you to: Rescale the operating councils! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Dobnigg and Dr. Matznetter.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I firmly believe that the time is right now because the government, the ÖIAG and the management have found a way to ensure that this privatisation will take place properly. I believe that now is the right time because employees have proved by impressive achievements that they can not only exist on world markets but also expand world markets. – A warm steiric happiness!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5628	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5646	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! I would call this extraordinary meeting of the National Council a disgrace, for the following reason: As a Member of Parliament, as well as many others of us, I feel abused in view of the way in which the Voest is being dealt with and how the Social Democrats are permanently exploiting this House – the second time now. [[Abg. Sburny: Abuse the house? What do you mean by “abuse ”?]] But please, at least we have the opportunity to tell the truth and also to light the past a little, because if we are already sitting here – and many of those sitting here have contributed to privatisation in the past! – then we will put the facts on the table again. You can't say it often enough in this House! [[Abg. Sburny: What do you mean by “abuse”?]] [[Call the SPÖ: Why do you abuse yourself?]] It surprises me that the Social Democrats here in this House are the saviors of the national states. From 1981 to 1990, the taxpayer, Mr Moser, had to pay a total of €4.28 billion to the national authorities, which is €59 billion of schilling. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] If you charge the financing costs, there are 8.72 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] €8.72 billion! I could already live with it if the status of employment, i.e. 103 000 workers, had been kept equal. But no, it was reduced to 51,000! This means that 52 000 workers have cost 120 billion schillings of unemployment benefit! – That was your national policy! The party book economy has always played a role – and then you have the naughtiness to get out of here and want to teach us how really privatized it is! – This government has had many successes, and I will come to talk afterwards. [[Abg. Sburny: Where?]] The negative examples of privatisation have already been addressed. These include voestalpine mining technology and the AMAG, which were privatized under social democratic governments. The circumstances described by Mr Bleckmann here are very precise. The mismanagement in the field of national lights reached a peak with the bankruptcy of the “consumer”. A debt of 26 billion schillings was accumulated under this socialist economy! There were billions of losses for many suppliers. In addition, we lost 15 000 workers or jobs. 15,000! – That was your job with the nationalists or even in companies where you were sitting as social democrats. How often has the Court of Auditors challenged the entrepreneurship policy of the Social Democrats? What did you do? It negates, laws amended. They have run around and have taken no account of what it looks like in state-owned operations. What a disaster this friendly economy has triggered in all these companies! I come again to the insider trade in voestalpine to speak: This has done a lot of damage to Austria's economic location! The Supervisory Board chief Franz Struzl was promoted to this position by the then Minister of State Streicher, then he was protected by him, and probably he is now sent home with full references, on vacation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck]] This will also be your policy in this case, and you have to represent it at the Voest – and not just shudder in here and believe that this government is working wrong. [[New calls of the Agg. Keck]] We have always focused on workers, and we will ensure that the nationalised people are privatised in such a way that these jobs are preserved. [[Piffe and call from the gallery]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] Compared with the time when the Social Democrats were responsible, ÖIAG's debt has been reduced from 6.3 billion to €2 billion. And the interest burden of the remaining debts is financed by profits themselves, it is no longer a burden for the Austrian state. But unlike the Social Democrats – and I would like to stress this here again – we will protect these employees and we will look forward to this privatisation in such a way that the core shareholdership remains in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You must finally take note of that! [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We have advocated this policy, and I hope that with your policy of the past, you will not shape the future of this country for a long, long time!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5782	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. The remaining speaking time of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5800	Mr President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! High house! The SPÖ already appears during the whole debate as a great savior of the Voest and paints the devil of privatisation on the wall. I would remind the audience that more than 65 percent of Voest were privatized during the SPÖ's reign, and not only to Austrian shareholders, but more than 29 percent went abroad! Ladies and gentlemen! Out of the responsibility of the SPÖ, the Upper Austrian election campaign is carried out on the back of the Voest employees. I don't think it's right that the election hack is being carried out on the back of these employees. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The diligent voestlers and voestlers have not deserved fear from the SPÖ, especially when the top candidate threatens to sell to the Russians or when emotions are to be awakened with a chain of lights. [[Abg. Keck: From whom...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The fact is that the SPÖ did not vote on the 28th. No constructive solution at all on September. I am sure that only distractions should be made, as there are no concrete other rural issues from the SPÖ. Because only with zoology, foxes and elephants can you lead a bad campaign. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: With lions...!]] Today's motion for a resolution confirms only the line of the liberals, and this shows what we liberals have always been working for: in particular for the participation of the staff, which is to be increased and which gives much more rights to the employees! I am also pleased that a demand from the Upper Austrian Councillor Steinkellner has been enshrined in the motion for a resolution: that the Austrian core shareholder structure is guaranteed by more than 25 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals know about the importance of the company of Voest for the well-being of thousands of employees and their families. I assure you that we will continue to work for their concerns!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5871	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The Green Group's remaining speaking time: 8 minutes. The watch is gladly set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5889	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the spectator banks, on the government bank and here in the High House! Do you know what irritates me about this debate? – That the representatives of the government parties believe that they want to take a step that they now want to take, namely privatisation, by being able to justify by saying: In the past, other bad steps have already taken place. – This is the only argument you have brought us today! [[Abg. Großruck: But not at all!]] Did you notice how bad you are together? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Have you noticed how much your argumentation is already on the sand and that you can do nothing more, Mr Grossruck, than say: In the past it was much worse, and that is why we can now also allow it. [[Abg. Big Truck: Oillinger didn't watch!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That's your argument. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true at all!]] That's sad, it's quite a blow to every form of politics as an interference in the economy in favour of the human life conditions! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You would have to argue why you believe that this privatisation is now the right time! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Let us hold on, ladies and gentlemen, to the government parties: A few months ago, at the beginning of this year, you intended to privatize the Voest not now, but at the end of the legislative period. [[Abg. Murauer: Oillinger doesn't understand everything either!]] My colleague Sburny has already asked the question: What happened that within a few months one has completely changed the scenario and makes a completely hasty privatisation, an exchange course? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Why haste?]] So what happened? In between, the project “Minerva” – flew up, came to the public! Now the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance have clearly decided: If we are already so deep in it, rather put an end to it than to hold the issue in the political debate and possibly lose it because we have nothing to argue about! – This is your concept: We have nothing to argue about. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! If You explain to Parliament – and you have done so – I want an Austrian Voest!, I will tell you: That's nice, but that doesn't help us at all! The will of the Federal Chancellor here does not stand for the work at all. On the contrary, it would have helped us, Federal Chancellor, if you had said: I guarantee an Austrian Voest! – You knew very well why you couldn’t say that and didn’t want to say it! If the representatives of the government parties, especially the representatives of the FPÖ, who do not meet with the look and feel, talk about having now guaranteed 25 percent plus 1 for an Austrian core shareholder, I will tell them: Show me the Austrian nuclear shareholder! Today, the “Kurier” has clarified in a list the composition of Austrian shareholders: Raiffeisen with Mr Scharinger, I believe, holds 7 or 8 percent; some other small financial investors hold 2 or 3 percent. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Oberbank has 3!]] – Where is the core shareholder? The core shareholder needs 25 percent to guarantee real rights as a core shareholder. But there is no him, and you can't guarantee him either! The FPÖ has fallen even further by this request, which you are making here today, than it had already fallen down when the government of the privatisation order decided. At the time, it was still in the privatisation order: We want these Austrian investors to syndicate, i.e. agree on their voting behaviour. This has been lost in the motion for a resolution tabled today by the EIA and the Free Trade Unions. Not even that you want to guarantee, and you can't guarantee it, ladies and gentlemen! You from the FPÖ are the invaders all over the line! There is nothing left to justify the maintenance as its own party. Is that clear to you? All over the public, ladies and gentlemen, it is said: The ÖVP has prevailed! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Two or three of the FPÖ's mandates have the forehead to claim here that the FPÖ had prevailed. Where? How? – You have fallen behind what you decided in April and then in June on the government bank together between ÖVP and FPÖ! The future rest is a statement of intent, which you present today until the stock exchange is here for the audience outside. After the stock exchange: bye, adieu, dear world, we don't care what happens then! - That's your recipe! Then there is politics outside, then there is no Austrian nuclear shareholder in the form of the state, and then, Mr Walch and Mrs Achleitner, you do not benefit from saying: It may not have worked with the core shareholder in the form of banks, and now we want the ÖIAG again. - That's what you're saying. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ has completely resigned on this issue – as well as on the question of tax reform, as well as on the question of the interception hunters, as well as on the issue of pension reform. As a party, ladies and gentlemen, Don't take them seriously! What I consider to be much more problematic is that the members of the ÖVP in the Federal Government – together with Mr Grasser, who behaved above things – have been here trying to deceive the Austrian public, who have deceived Parliament, for months, by trying to quell the public and us, as if it were possible to guarantee something here. It is not possible – you know that too. And now, in the end, you are also taking the decisive step, namely, Austrian public assets quickly for short-term interests or also for the interests of some investors, whether banks or strategic investors. This is about the money of the Austrian taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen, and that is what you are doing now!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6036	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. The remaining speaking time of his group is 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6065	Mr President. High house! On this sad day of Parliament, I would just like to make two points. First note: It's no coincidence that just JP Morgan gets the order to allocate the shares here. [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] It is not by chance the institution that has merged the Raiffeisen-Landesbank Oberösterreich with the Landes-Hypo. And: There is an § 48a Stock Exchange Act. Under this law, if they have knowledge of circumstances that, if they were publicly known, could significantly influence the course, they should not have to buy themselves or buy others. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr. Scharinger sits in the Supervisory Board of Voest, he knows the numbers, he knows future data of the company, he knows silent reserves. This man must not buy himself, nor be allowed to buy close institutions. This would be insider trading and would eventually have to be the subject of the authorities and courts. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Damage for Austria, damage to the stock market and damage to the Voest!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6112	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We come to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Walch, Dr Mitterlehner, on the continuation of the successful privatisation measures by the Federal Government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request by Mr Walch, Dr Mitterlehner, for a sign. – The request was accepted by a majority vote. (E 20.) We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Kogler, colleagues on safety decision against the sale of voestalpine AG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Gusenbauer, colleagues and colleagues on safeguarding Austria's industrial site by remaining ÖIAG as a core shareholder of voestalpine AG. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, The request is submitted by 20 Members. The desire must therefore be met. You know that the polls to be used are in the store. They shall bear the name of the Member and the name ‘Yes’ or ‘No’. Only official votes can be used for the vote. I would ask you to set up the voting line. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to vote. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of Dr. Gusenbauer's motion, and those who vote against Dr. Gusenbauer's request to put "No" vote in the urn. I now ask Mr Wimmer, as the writer of today's day, to start calling for the name. Member of the European Parliament May Auer be willing to redeem him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6199	Mrs Haidlmayr and Mr Huainigg have also given their votes. - Yeah, good. I declare the vote terminated. I would now like to ask the officials of the House to carry out the counting and then make known to me the result of the vote. To this end, the session has been suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6236	I'll start the interrupted session again. I would ask you to take up the seats and to announce the results of the vote on Dr Gusenbauer's request as follows: Members cast: 180, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 83, No votes: 97. The application therefore did not find a majority and was rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Binder, Brosz, Broukal, Bures; Cap, Csörgits; Dobnigg; Eder, one; Faul, Fischer, Fleckl; Gaál Anton, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glavischnig, Gradwelt, Grossmann, Grünewald, Gusenbauer; Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hoscher; Jarolim; Kaipel, Keck, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kummerer, Kuntzl; varnishes, laps, lights, lunacek; Maier Johann, Mandak, Marizzi, Matznetter, Moser Gabriela, Moser Hans, Muttonen; Niederwieser, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Parnigoni, Pendl, Pepper, Pilz, Pirklhuber, Prehauser, Prammer, Puswald; Rada Robert, Reheis, Rest-Hintersief, Riepl; Sburny, Scharer, Schasching, Schieder, Schönpass, Schopf, Silhavy, Sima, Spindelberger Erwin, Stadlbauer, Steier; Trunk; For the purposes of this Regulation, Walther, Weinzinger, Wimmer, Wittmann, Worm. Members voted with ‘No’: Achleitner, Amon, Auer Jakob, Auer Klaus Hubert; Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Bleckmann, Böhm, Bösch, Brad Alfred, Brinek, Bucher; Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Edelwall, Eßl; Fassleven, Fekter, Felzmann, Franz, Freund, Frieser, Fuhrmann; Gahr Hermann, Glaser, Grander, Grillitsch, Großruck; Hakl, Haubner, Hofmann, Hellererer, Hornek, Huainigg, Hütl; Ikrath; Kainz, Kapeller, Keussnigg, Khol, Koßl, Kurzbauer; cross-country skiers, ledolter, lentic, light-egger, lopatka; Machne, Maier Ferdinand, Mainoni, Marek, Miedl, Mikesch, Missethon, Mitterlehner, Molterer, Murauer; Neudeck, Neugebauer; Pack, Partik-Pablé, Praßl, Preider, Prince, Princehorn; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Regler Roderich, Riener, Rosenkranz, Rossmann; Scheibner, Scheuch, Scheucher-Pichler, Schephermair, Schöls, Schultes, Schweisgut, Sieber, Spindelegger Michael, Stadler, Steibl Ridi, Steindl Konrad, Stummvoll; Tamandel, Tancsits, Drinkl, Turković-Wendl; Walch, Wattaul, Wegscheider, Winkler, Wittauer, Wöinger, Wolfmayr, Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6420	The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Cap, Mr Mag. Kogler concerning the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance under Article 74 of the Federal Constitution. Such a decision requires the presence of more than half of the members of the National Council. I therefore note that this quota has been properly given. I should now like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion for a reluctance by Mr Cap, Kogler, give a sign of this by raising the seats. – I note that this motion for a reluctance has not been found and has been rejected by a majority. The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Cap, colleagues in respect of compliance with the Employment Act and with the Treaty stencil regulation. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign in this regard. – The request does not find the majority of the House, it is rejected. That's what we've done. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6475	We shall now come to the short debate on the request of the honourable Members. Mainoni, Miedl, who has the content of reporting to the Transport Committee on the submission of 46 of the supplements, is an international protocol on rail transport of 9 December 1989. ==References====External links== ... [[From the gallery, on which members of the voestalpine staff, recognizable on their workwear, sound thank-you.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are no rallys from the gallery! I would ask you to keep your peace, and I would like to ask you to do so. We come to the request made by Mr Mainoni, the motion referred to above, for a period of until 17. ==References== After the end of the debate to be held, the vote on the request for a deadline will take place. We are going into the debate. Everyone knows the rules of the game: The speaking time is 10 minutes for the explanatory statement and 5 minutes for each speaker. I call Mr Mainoni. The speaking time is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6522	Mr President. Dear gentlemen of the Federal Government! Our proposal for a deadline gives me the opportunity to talk about the Austrian Federal Railways or their reforms and to make them the subject here at this meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Railways are undoubtedly one of the most important, if not even the most important company in the Republic of Austria. In all discussions on this special society of the Republic of Austria, this should always be borne in mind. I personally break a lance for the Austrian Bundesbahnen, but especially for the employees of this company! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Austrian Federal Railways are the largest providers of public transport and long-distance transport. The Austrian Federal Railways are thus Austria's largest mode of transport. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian federal railways alone make a turnover of around 1 billion € per year in passenger transport! The ÖBB employs 46 000 people, so about 150,000 people live on the income of the Austrian Federal Railways. Every year, the Austrian Federal Railways transport and write 185 million people, and in this context I also refer to the environmental aspects – and I hope that the Greens will also give me the right to do so – which the Austrian Federal Railways have to offer. However, the Austrian Federal Railways are, economically speaking, not only an extremely important factor in Austria, but they are also one of the largest clients in Austria, which must not be overlooked. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, 15 000 jobs in Austria are converted to: Duration secured by orders from the Austrian Federal Railways. The Austrian Federal Railways are of course also historically significant. Let me say just one sentence: The Austrian Federal Railways or their predecessors were founded in 1834, with the Linz–Budweis route. Ladies and gentlemen! The good reputation of this company – and that is why I was now well worth reporting in advance about all these achievements of the Austrian Federal Railways – and its great importance for Austria should not suffer that there are some abuses! But also these misdeeds belong to them, and they are to be addressed! For example, the privileges of the ÖBB service law cause additional costs of € 350 million annually. [[Abg. Oillinger: What privileges do you mean?]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is not what I am reporting, but that is what the Court of Auditors reports. The topic of health care is also striking in the Austrian Federal Railways, and this is also to be addressed: There is no doubt that 1.26 million sick days per year are above average in Austria. The fact that 3 500 people are constantly absent from the Austrian Federal Railways due to illness is also striking. If you analyze it, 75 percent of the absences are attributable to a quarter of the staff, and from the age of 50. On average, the employees are 71.5 calendar days in the state of illness. That should also be thinking! And in the last three years before retirement, the staff of the Austrian Federal Railways have even 99 days of sick leave per year! – These are circumstances that are very likely to be described as maladministrations! Another factor of the Court of Auditors' analysis is that staff costs continue to rise by 2.5 percent per year, although a quarter of the Austrian Federal Railways staff stand has been reduced since 1992. – Obviously, there is something wrong with this area too! The purpose of the reduction is to reduce the cost of staff costs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] No, no, no, You can't do that! Ladies and gentlemen! All these points – and only a part of them have been taken out of the Court of Auditors – prove and demonstrate that reforms are necessary. Reforms in the Austrian Federal Railways are therefore necessary because we must first implement the European Union's requirements. Moreover, of course – and this is also not to be neglected – the financial needs, which are mostly borne by the federal government, need to be reduced. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what we're confessing, that's necessary. When we look at the figures, we see that the total financial needs of the Austrian Federal Railways amount to €4.4 billion annually. 3.4 billion are covered from the federal budget, and around 1 billion annually are raised by the borrowing of the ÖBB infrastructure and the rail infrastructure company. The ÖBB infrastructure and SCHIG together already have €10 billion in debt. – Ladies and gentlemen! All these figures give us an intrusion to how urgently a reform is necessary. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now more about the main objectives of the ÖBB reform: The main objective is to create a modern, competitive, transparent and non-discriminatory corporate structure of the Austrian Federal Railways by separating the infrastructure from the sales sector and by splitting sales into competitive and independent industry companies. Another main objective is to ensure that there is sufficient mobility provision for the country as a whole – Mrs Colleague, you will agree with me on this – and this already exists and should be maintained or optimised in this way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: It is suboptimal, Mr. colleague!]] – If you are of a different opinion, I am pleased to hear your word message about it! Ladies and gentlemen! One important point is the removal of unlimited cost-effectiveness. At present, there is a legal rule that the federal government should automatically comply with a cost-covering obligation. This too will no longer be possible materially in the future. This also involves, of course, reducing the need for funding by creating organisational and legal bases for rationalisation and for sustainable cost reductions. – These are the main goals. Ladies and gentlemen! What does the reform look like? Our Minister of Infrastructure and the Secretary of State will certainly explain this in detail. Important for this structural reform will be that there will have to be an ÖBB-Holding AG. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] These will be subject to subsidiaries in the form of an infrastructure share company, a freight share company, a passenger share company, a trektionsGmbH and a Technical Service GmbH. Furthermore, the holding company – which is also not unimportant and has already proved successful in other companies in the past – will be subject to a personnel management and service GmbH and ultimately a real estate management GmbH. The subsidiaries of ÖBB Holding AG, as I have already said, are to be established in the legal form of stock companies. The holding company as such will be designed as a slim, strategic company that is free of the operating tasks. – The details of Infrastructure AG, Goods Transport AG, Personenverkehr AG will certainly be presented by our Minister of State or by the Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen! The reform is urgently necessary, as you see it, and we are also taking it quickly. This request to set deadlines, which we have tabled, is proof and a signal that we are addressing a rapid solution to the problems ahead, and we are ultimately stressing the importance and importance of rail transport for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6625	I call Mr Miedl. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6643	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The actual reason for today's deadline is the so-called COTIF Agreement of 9. May 1980. It's been a long time. However, this agreement does not call for any other requirement than that the 41 countries which have joined this Agreement develop uniform standards in the field of technology, legal possibilities and the transport of persons, goods and goods. I think that's good and right and you should do that. My previous speaker, Mr Mainoni, pointed out how necessary a reform of the ÖBB is. I am getting closer or closer to this opinion, because we have a mandate from the European Union, which is supposed to do nothing but actually make it possible to liberalise the railways. This means that the EU's mission is to be transposed into national law. Thirdly, there is a report from the Court of Auditors which deals with defects in the field of public health. It was essentially staff developments, early pensions and sick persons that moved the Court of Auditors to work. The numbers of works councils have also contributed to this. So far, so good. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that, in view of these developments and this finding, it is a duty and a duty of any government to take action. [[Abg. Broukal: It depends on how you act!]] I believe, Mr Broukal, that you will right me that anyone who does not act here is guilty of a serious neglect of his duties. At least I think so! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Broukal.]] Mr President, I should like to thank That's exactly what I'm talking about! If I present a plan now, and this plan includes... – Mr Broukal! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] You know, I've always estimated you to be much more serious. [[Abg. Broukal: Not serious enough!]] You're not worthy of the polemics you're showing. It is about reforming a major transport company, the largest transport company in this country. That's where we have a commitment to do something! [[Abg. Broukal: But you are not talking about reforms! They're nearing the staff!]] What does the government propose now, represented by Minister Gorbach and State Secretary Kukacka? – A holding variant with an infrastructure AG, a freight transport AG and a passenger transport AG. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Let's just put it that way. We can then discuss it. The government proposes financial objectives. It says it has to be covered because the state grant is very high. It also proposes to reflect on the historical participation and the many rights of staff representation. – I myself was a staff representative with the police and experienced what rights can be used there. [[Abg. Broukal: Now you want to explain to me that you are for less rights! Explain this to me!]] – Mr Commissioner, I am amazed at what is possible at the ÖBB in this regard. We should talk about the staff. We know very well that any healthy company can either develop or possibly go to the bottom of the staff. We should also talk about service law. The reform model Kukacka-Gorbach contains just these five blocks. Mr Broukal! If you had dealt with the content of these reform proposals once in one of your broadcasts, I would say that this is serious and would like to make my contribution. But you didn't, and that's the criticism of your person! – Mr Colleague! [[Abg. Broukal: It is first of all about protecting the railways and not about polemizing!]] I expected you to deal with the matter and not to polemise. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Broukal.]] Mr Broukal! What's the SPÖ doing now? What does she do to make the ÖBB competitive internationally? That's why it has to be! [[Abg. Broukal: Pursue 12,000 people! Shame!]] What does it do about the problem of whether or not the company has to claim or go down? Who are the benefits of diffamation, Mr. Broukal? Mr Broukal, this is about reforming one of the largest companies in Austria. [[Abg. Broukal: You defame the railways all the time!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] These are parade companies. [[Abg. Broukal: Mr Gorbach is not acting like the head of the railways, but like the worst competitor of the railways!]] I call on you to deal with the issue in a matter of fact and not to deal with it in polemics! [[Abg. Broukal: It's time you stopped the polemics!]] Mr. Col., you signal in the direction of ÖBB: It can stay with the old man. We don't need to change anything, and that's wrong. [[Abg. Broukal: No!]] I haven't got any other signal from you yet. We should... – The railway is not being broken! – Mr Colleague! [[Abg. Broukal: You should not talk the railways broken!]] [[Call to the liberals: They're already broken!]] No one does, and I'm not going to let that happen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We should get to work quickly. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask you a question: Could it be that the SPÖ is becoming more and more afraid of its policy because it wants to beat profit and political change from the uncertainty of the people who work in the enterprises? [[Abg. Broukal: Who has claimed that 12,000 railers are superfluous? – They were!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] You do not have us as a partner, but we are always involved in the reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6902	I have a very small request, namely that in a debate on a deadline request at some point – at the beginning or at the end – at least half a sentence on the subject of deadlines – per or counter. The next speaker is Mr Eder. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6924	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's very easy: We reject the deadline request. – This has once been said. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is very strange that the reform of one of Austria's most important companies will be announced on the occasion of a deadline debate and that the Federal Minister and the State Secretary will listen, but not present what they are actually planning. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard a lot of announcements of ÖBB reforms! There are announcements by Mr Kukacka State Secretary, after which announcements from the Federal Minister are answered, there are concepts of the Board of Directors, there are all kinds of statements and comments, but we have not received a real conception until today. That is why we cannot discuss this today either. I would like to say the following: There will be some pillars. Of course, we confess that the Austrian Federal Railways – like any other company – must be discussed repeatedly, adapted to the market and always set preferences. For us, one of the cornerstones is to discuss this question at all, that nothing is allowed to happen in the Austrian Federal Railway, which makes Austria's economic location worse. – On the contrary: It needs to be improved. There must be nothing wrong with transport policy. Nor should the social dimension be completely lost in sight, just as the ecological dimension must always be kept in mind. My previous speaker, Mr Miedl, spoke about the debt of the ÖBB: Then we'll talk about the ASFINAG! Under the leadership of the Federal Chancellor, when he was still Minister of Economic Affairs, he has accumulated €11 billion in debt. And put these €11 billion into debt once on all shipments in Austria, which have so far used the motorways for free. Then they are all more than pleading, more than the Bundesbahn. – That would be the right bill! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One should not say that the Bundesbahn has debt and is pleading – so one cannot maintain the argument in the long run! – but the sparklers have built their villas by the sea, their land and their houses at the expense of the Austrian people who finance the streets. I can also say clearly: We introduced the Road Pricing Act for trucks in 1996. To date, however, there is no road pricing for trucks! In Germany, the law was introduced last year, there one is already talking about testing, and the Germans will do the same. We would have done it in Austria too, but they didn't want to. The Früchter Lobby has been constantly here. [[Abg. Gaál: The Frächterlobby... Mr. State Secretary Kukacka!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the Railways Constitutional Act, because this is always spoken about and demanded that it be amended. In May 1997, this Railway Constitution Act is an independent application by the current State Secretary and then Transport Spokesman of ÖVP Mag. Kukacka was brought in, supported, defended and co-decisiond. You can't turn around unbroken things that you found good three or four years ago, at once, because you're suddenly different! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Make better!]] Mr Kukacka said in his speech, for example – he may remember – that he likes to agree to this law because it corresponds to the proven Austrian Labour Constitution Act on all essential points. [[Ah-noise at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Broukal: Today he says he has been forced!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: He has exercised the free mandate!]] The Freedom Party has been so excited about how many trustees there were at the conference center. That was a call for the liberals! You have to see that too. Mr Meisinger complained at the time that, under this Constitutional Labour Act, far too few trustees are possible in the train and that the minorities too – literally! – the possibility to become works councils at the train. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, but not at the conference centre, Mr. Colleague!]] Mr Kukacka said at the time that it was enough space, even for the minorities, that this employee co-determination was granted and that he wished for a correspondingly strong and constructive employee co-determination in the railways, so that § 6 and so on could be observed. Kukacka, as a Member of Parliament, has contributed this! Today you read: ÖBB-Reform – Kukacka against union participation rights. [[Ah-noise at the SPÖ.]] Yes, he has changed a lot, Mr. Kukacka! [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: You quote only half!]] I can only hope that the Federal Minister will finally intervene here and create order in this ministry! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, not to leave the ÖBB reform to Mr Kukacka State Secretary. Take this into your own hands, because someone who has no heart for the company he is reforming cannot really reform this company! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make it clear here in response to what Mr Miedl said in an issue, namely that SPÖ should not act against the Board of Directors: The SPÖ has never acted against board members in public. The SPÖ supports concepts of the board if they are for the benefit of the companies, for the benefit of Austria and in this case for the benefit of the staff of the Austrian Federal Railways. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7075	The Federal Minister now intervenes – at least in the debate. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7093	Mr President. Estimated Mr Kukacka State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. If you vote today on an application which sets a time limit for the Transport Committee and thus makes it possible to deal with the amendment of the Convention on International Railways in the National Council faster than usual, this shows the importance of this mode of transport rail as a whole – internationally and, of course, nationally. It is good to say this: first of all, because the Second National Council President likes to hear something said on the real occasion of the debate, and secondly, because I seriously believe that this mode of transport will still gain enormous importance, both in our country and cross-border, and, if you wish, is a hope-holder. That is why a reform is essential: on the one hand, because of strengthening competition and ensuring non-discrimination-free access to third parties in the field of rail transport – you know that is EU law that needs to be implemented – but on the other hand, to make these Austrian federal railways competitive in a liberalised market. A reform is important in order to secure jobs in order to be able to offer a good transport partner to the economy, to the companies, but also, of course, to provide the individual customer with a corresponding customer service, which corresponds to a modern mode of transport. However, this is no longer true in many areas of the Austrian Federal Railways, as they present themselves today. Ladies and gentlemen! You won't hear from me that the debt lies with the ÖBBlers themselves. In addition to management errors, which have probably also happened, of course, a mismanagement policy has also been pursued in recent decades. – I say this without wanting to go into party politics. However, some things have gone wrong, otherwise the situation of the ÖBB could not be as much as it does today, otherwise the Austrian federal railways could not have an annual grant funding requirement of € 4.5 billion – € 1.3 billion of which pension subsidies, you know – otherwise there could not be plans on the one hand in board sets – “switch” or “Power 2005” – that by the year 2010 7,000 natural exits would not have to be re-occupied – and yet everything would go on, otherwise it could not be that 5000 people could be saved through optimizations and on the other hand 6,3 million overtimes a year, which are naturally expensive. – This is also not an accusation to those who make these overtimes, because it is the system that has been changed. Ladies and gentlemen! I will not follow the calls and now present this reform in detail, just as the Secretary of State and I have done today before the Council of Ministers to provide intermediate information, because I would like to discuss intensively with trade union representatives and staff representatives in the next few days. I would also like to take up a word by the opposition chief Dr. Gusenbauer: He said he was for a reform. I have heard this very attentively and with great joy. Let us see that we find as broad a consensus as possible to bring this so important reform for Austria, for the ÖBB and for the employees of the ÖBB, so that we have all the great pleasure with the transport mode ÖBB that it is competitive that it is modern and dynamic and offers secure jobs. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've already said in this house: This federal government has the courage and the right strategies to give this Austria the momentum it deserves. The ÖBB are also a piece of Austria, and they need new momentum. Believe me! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Courage for Unreasonableness!]] If you deal with details such as vacation arrangements, overtime arrangements, service hours, the involvement of staff representatives and so on, you will realize that the best management of such obsolete systems and old structures cannot lead a modern company successfully. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] Mr Eder! The main objective, therefore, is to create a modern, competitive, transparent and non-discriminatory corporate structure of the ÖBB through separation into self-reliable recognizable structures, i.e. areas such as passenger transport, freight transport, infrastructure, and of course personnel management, and then to ensure sufficient mobility in the context of the apparent transport of persons and goods for the whole country, the removal of the unlimited cost-covering obligation – since there is no longer any other way to ensure that, on the basis of § 2, the costs that have been incurred are simply replaced, regardless of whether they are used or less meaningful – and finally, the reduction of the grant requirement by creating organisational and legal basis for rationalisation and sustainable cost reductions. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But this is only coming back!]] Mr President, I am coming to a close. In this context, I will first discuss with those concerned because these are far-reaching measures: first of all, fundamental reforms in Austria, and second, far-reaching measures for those concerned. I would just like to mention: Together with the State Secretary, who has also prepared this reform, we will of course also talk about things that it will not be easy to talk about, because taking away someone who has become fond of old conveniences and amenities is never a great thing. However, we will talk about the payment arrangements, about health insurance, about holiday rights, also about the separation of personally hazardous and weather-spent activities in the track and administrative activities. We will not affect the additional leave for the disabled. But we will also talk about handover to third parties and insourcing, so we will give someone a job before we send him to early retirement. We will also talk about continuing employment in the company in other uses, if an area is not running so well, as well as about the need for more flexibility in the ÖBB in order to make it a successful, forward-looking and competitive company. Believe me, I'm going to take the matter as if I'm an ÖBBler myself, and from day to day develop more enthusiasm for this company that is supposed to have a good future in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7173	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7191	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! It is a pleasure to be able to speak today for the second time, because this debate really shows something important again, namely the past government policy in connection with businesses. The ÖBB trade union Haberzettl said it looked more cruel than it is. – I can only say: It's a lot more cruel. If one reads the Court of Auditors' raw material report more precisely and if one considers the Austrian Federal Railways in international competition, then one must finally find that some of these privileges exist. This is a true jungle. Previously, this Minister of Finance Grasser has been accused, but we still have the jungle that you have caused, and we cannot open it up because everything is bound by contracts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] I think it's relatively bad of you if you're now criticizing something you've done for decades. I am also grateful to Minister of Finance Grasser. We'll be very careful to get rid of what happened. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, I would like to talk about what privileges these are. Previously, Voest workers were here at the gallery, where you looked up and applauded. However, the Voest workers would be “thanks” to you if they looked at them – even then in the time of the Social Democratic Government – reforms were made and how the Bundesbahn was handled, where the trade union and the workers’ representatives were still almost entirely in control of the company and where it is hardly possible to carry out reforms. The disease in 2001 was 1 260 000 days of illness according to the Court of Auditors' Raw Report. That is, in total, 3 456 ÖBBlers are not in operation at all. If you look at the average sick days in the last three years before retirement, then the number moves between 99 and even 298 days. That's a strange job setting! If this were all, maybe I could still live with it, but there are still special holidays. Why is it justified, please, that a ÖBBler has two holidays, just because he is on holiday in winter? I've never seen this with my employees, myself I've never been able to use it when I was in an employee relationship, and I don't think it's possible with the Voest either. Or holiday and holiday supplements: Whoever consumes a holiday on a Saturday or holiday gets a holiday. – Unique! I would like to thank myself as an entrepreneur if I had such employees that I still have to reward for being on vacation. Next point: 6.3 million overtime! It looks like we actually need a lot more employees at the ÖBB because so many overtimes are being done. I looked at this more closely: The figures do not come about because ÖBB officials work 50 hours per week, but it is a service right with privileges that makes it possible for each railway staff member to be on average 72,5 working days per year not in the company and that additional overtime is credited, even if he has only worked 40 hours. I wonder if this is still normal, or if there has just been a gift to the people in the past and a party book business has been conducted. The subject of promotions quickly prior to retirement: According to the Court of Auditors, the gross pension in individual cases was up to €965 above the cover. – You have to imagine that! We have decided on a pension reform which will reduce people's pension, because they are supposed to pay for this pension reform. At the Bundesbahn it is the other way round: People get 965 € more than they did before. You could continue that list for an infinitely long time. We can see that there is a need for reform. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Worm, Reheis and Eder.]] I am glad that Minister Gorbach has spoken such clear words: a confession to the ÖBB, to the rail, to the expansion of the rail, but to the removal of these privileges which are unbearable! [[Abg. Reheis: Your policy is unbearable! It's not going to happen anymore!]] This company should be healthy, should participate in a healthy competition, but not continue to face the downfall under this social-democratic hostagery. We give the ÖBB 4.3 billion € per year, and 347 million € per year alone cost these privileges. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] That is “wonderful ”! That is what we are talking about saving and running a business into the future, and what is being done? We'll do better with Minister Gorbach, I'm sure! [[Abg. Reheis: The Minister has found better words!]] His suggestions are good. This Federal Government and our Minister Gorbach have the support of the liberal Members.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7280	The next item in the debate on the request for a deadline is Mr Mag. Kukacka the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7299	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a brief comment on some of the points that have been raised here. Mr Eder, I do not think it can be surprising for anyone that this ÖBB reform is actually being implemented. You know exactly how I am: We have been discussing this issue for over ten years. Each of these reforms has at best been addressed half-heartedly, and now this government is going to implement this very important project in the sense of a forward-looking transport policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is already in the Coalition Agreement and can therefore not have surprised you. There have already been the main features of this reform, which we have, in part, already presented to the public in recent weeks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Eder: We are at a time-limitation debate, Mr President!]] I would like to say the following, Mr Eder: If you quote me here, then it would have been fair to quote everything, not only half of it, not only what suits you, but also to point out that I have already said at that time, we do not think it is in principle right that a special company constitution law is created here, but we believe that, in general, the employment constitution law should also apply to the ÖBB. [[Abg. Eder: That would have taken more time!]] [[Abg. Eder: The more important half!]] That is exactly what we want with this reform! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want to make a normal company out of these Austrian Federal Railways, a normal company with all the criteria that are necessary for such a company. [[Abg. May. Worm: Many will be able to afford the train!]] We have proposed reforms in three areas: First of all, in the field of corporate structures: We need a comprehensive, new structure, which makes it clear that operational units in particular have a very important task. That is why we create stock companies there, which is why we make these corporate units responsible for results so that they are forced to focus primarily on the market and the customer, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have a second reform approach: We want to change the right to serve and the rights of employee representatives, but we do not want to take away anything from them, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ironic no-run at SPÖ.]] We want to see for the ÖBB what is legal and customary in other large, comparable companies in that country, as in the Voest, for example, we have discussed today. It is precisely these co-determination rights of the trade union and employee representatives that there should also be in the new labour constitution law. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] What is good and right for the Voest, this must also be right and cheap for the ÖBB on this question, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] They say I don't have a heart for the ÖBB. Ladies and gentlemen! Just because the Federal Railways are at my heart – not only since I am State Secretary, but already in my entire time as a transport politician – I think this reform is necessary and I believe that the ÖBB also needs them to ensure a good future for them! [[Objection to the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7431	As the last speaker in this debate, Mrs Dr. Lichtenberger. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7450	Ladies and gentlemen! This is quite an interesting deadline debate. On COTIF, on this international agreement, no word will be lost at all. [[Abg. Eder: They don't know what it's all about!]] Most people present or the applicants of the application probably do not know what this is all about, or they may have read the cover that was included in this law, and it is clear that, as it is literally said, there is an international, EU-compliant railway law that has no direct impact on Austria or that there is no need for adaptation for the structures. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why the deadline is quite absurd. Mr Wittauer shot down the bird by not even able to mention the request only once. The pretext was obviously a request that had nothing to do with what you listed here, namely to warm up the old leader of the ÖBB vaccination. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! If you are talking about ÖBB reform proposals here, then one thing is quite clear: As regards important transport policy concerns such as, for example, fair and accessible transport for people who do not have a car – and this group will grow in the next few years – to guarantee that you do not understand this in detail. On the question of how we can make freight transport through international cooperation really more efficient and better, how we can create more capacity, you do not think at all. The only thing that comes to your mind – and this clearly shows where it should go from your point of view – is the abuse of the railways. They have been accused of the privileges that the new entrants have for the most part long failed to have. They're talking about skims here and they're definitely doing polemics. You have to know what's behind it. Ladies and gentlemen! What do you want? Do you even achieve with this ÖBB reform? – They obviously want to outsource, release, release, release a few thousand or more thousand – here again and again the proposals differ – OBB staff either to a staff company. Obviously because they were not pleasing to you and because they did not choose good black or blue in the past. That seems to be the real reason. What to do But you in return? – They propose a corporate structure that creates more management posts. And that's obviously the goal: Where work is being done is being dismantled. Finally, that means that services for transport will not be provided, ladies and gentlemen. Let's not do anything! There will be cut off, deleted, the customers will stay on the track. But the board sets are increased so that you can accommodate many black and blue protection children. That is what Mr Kukacka seems to be at his heart and nothing else. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I am sorry, instead of constantly hearing a debate on the future of the ÖBB a blasphemy of staff. We need powerful Austrian Federal Railways in cooperation with the neighbouring railways. [[Abg. Wittauer: And to do this, we need to destroy the privileges!]] It must finally be put in order so that we can offer and guarantee the transport services that we will be dependent on in the future. But, Mr Kukacka, whenever you talk about railway reform, you are at the second sentence at the very latest at the railway conjecture. I can't accept that, because it hurts the company that disapproves at the end of the day. In this way, you will certainly not be able to gain the employees' participation in the railway, although I can tell you that there are many among them who are just as interested in a reasonable, good reform as everyone who is interested in the fact that there is a functioning public transport. So, if you just hack around on them all the time, you won't do that. If this round hackery is still partially garnished with half-truths, then it beats the bottom of the barrel. I would also like to make one point: If you are always talking about the grant requirement of the Bundesbahn, then, ladies and gentlemen, please expect the railway pensions... [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7507	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7522	Yes, I would like to conclude:... just as you, for example, do not charge your former employees to the big fans in Austria when you talk about their business success. Ladies and gentlemen! This deadline debate was weak.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7555	No further words are available. We shall come to the vote. - Please take the seats! Mr Jarolim, telephone and vote is not possible. We shall vote on the request, the Transport Committee for reporting on the Protocol of 3. In June 1999, 46 of the supplements, a period of until 17 June 1999. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this deadline proposal to give a sign. – The deadline application was adopted by a majority. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7592	We are entering the negotiations on the request made by Mr Cap and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the implementation of the ÖIAG Act since 4. February 2000, in particular the preparation of sales for the federal shares of voestalpine AG as well as the occupations. The request has been distributed to all Members of the House. A reading by a writer is therefore not necessary. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7714	The speaking time for reasons is 10 minutes, then per group per 5 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7735	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The State Secretary leaves us. As early as July 2001, Mr Herzegovina and the Social Democrats requested that the appointment and appointment of Supervisory Boards and Boards in undertakings subject to the Court of Auditors' control be submitted to the Court of Auditors' review. I remember the mockery of the government parties when this request was made. But at the time, we have already assumed that this order and these convocations will not take place in accordance with the law. In August of the previous year – no, in September it was accurate – the following was to be read in the “Kurier” on the raw data of the Court of Auditors report: [[Call the ÖVP:Well what now? September or August?]] “The black and blue government gripped deeply into the taxpayers’ pocket.” – That’s all I’m not quoting here. Then – already then, in the “Kurier”! – criticised the contract of Mr. Peter Michaelis, which – already known at the time – made up €684,000 a year. Its rental subsidies – interestingly 14 times a year – were criticized of a total of € 43 000 At the time, the “Kurier” already criticized the hard-to-understand reasons for the redundancies of the officials, the board of directors and supervisory councils. There was no reason. I can still quote one sentence: “Rüffel für Grasser. His fat also gets Necht-Finanzminister... off.” – He didn’t shatter around for long for the selection of the consulting office, didn’t adhere to procurement laws, and chose a company of his trust, Egon Zehnder. The fact that the fees have increased insanely, that there have been telephone fees made by Mr. Supervisory Board Chairman Heinzel to his company of 4 300 €, all of this was already read in the “Kurier” in 2002. Now we have the actual report of the Court of Auditors, which the Minister of Finance initially complained about and said that he should have deserved his praise – we have heard it today – and that he is also ashamed of the fact that the Gagen – about €684,000 a year for Mr Michaelis – are far too low. In my opinion, the Minister of Finance should be ashamed of the fact that he meets such statements at all. And he should be ashamed that, although he knew what happened here, he has not done anything for a year and has watched these violations of law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way: The laws that were broken here, namely the 1998 Employment Act and the 1998 Contract stencil regulation, were passed with your votes in memory for the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. Now just don't stick to it anymore! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Edlinger didn't stick to it!]] The Minister of Finance KHG is obviously not interested in laws at all. Whatever was the trigger for this, I do not know, but it was obviously not quite in his skin to the Minister for Finance, and he has asked the Chairman of the Supervisory Board to report on it. In today's debate, we called for this report to be presented to us and for the Minister to comment on it. What did he do? – Mentioned with no syllable! That is the first good reason to ask for an investigation committee in this Causa so that we too can see this report and talk about it more accurately. All that the “Kurier” wrote in the previous year, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors' report has now been confirmed. The conversion action has cost taxpayers €4 million, namely to take over the recoloring of non-precious boards, from perhaps even nearby boards on black and blue. 800 000 € were used to get advice on how to recolor, and the consultant – I already said that is the company Egon Zehnder International – was ordered to recognise without award laws without writing out. It didn't matter! Interestingly, there is a good friend of Mr. Finanzminister's managing director. His wife has the office of President Prinzhorn. So it's all wonderfully related, and we don't need the award laws there, we forgive directly. I think that is one more reason to set up an investigation committee. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is a nice bouquet of flowers!]] – Yes, yes, but it is not over yet, Mr Commissioner, it goes further: New contracts were no longer decided by the competent bodies at all, and there are always unfounded high pay requirements in them. To list all this here would lead too far. All this is read in the Court of Auditors' report, and I hope you have already read it, ladies and gentlemen. The Court of Auditors makes it clear and clear that the law on the occupation of a contract is contrary to the stencil regulation that the procurement laws have been infringed. In addition, the non-compliance with the § 7 ÖIAG Act, which you have still formulated in the budget accompanying legislation. You obviously don't know anything about it anymore. In addition, with your government majority or with the majority of government parties, you also prevent control. We have tried in the summer to ensure that the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors is declared permanent in order to continue working in the Causa ÖIAG. – Rejected by a majority. We don't need it! We have also tried to get an appointment for this subcommittee in September. – To this day, there is no date. At the time, we made the request to invite the Minister of Finance and some other personalities to do so again. – Rejected by a majority. How good it would be today, could we carry out these charges and could we talk about the Court of Auditors' report, ladies and gentlemen! In any other country of Europe, the Minister of Finance would probably withdraw himself, if he had received such an destructive report from the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Go!]] In Austria you don't even think about it. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: And the Edellinger? What about the edellinger?]] On the contrary! You bring in the idea: Let's change the law! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Edellinger has had the same problem!]] I am aware that there is a Prime Minister who does so. In our neighbouring country Italy this is common: Let's change the laws, but let's not stick to them! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And what about the Edellinger? That was a similar case! Isn't that true for the edellinger?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is for further reason to agree to this Committee of Inquiry. [[Calls and calls between ODP and SPÖ MPs.]] Do you know what I'm concerned about? We have previously voted on the motion for a resolution Dr. Cap and Comrades, according to which the laws – the occupation law, the stencil regulation – are to be complied with, in so far as they are also being applied retroactively to the Treaties and that in the future these laws will be observed. In Parliament, therefore, we already have to make a request to the government parties to comply with laws! But you still sit dry with this request, vote in favour – only the request to comply with laws! This is worth an investigation committee, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7863	Mrs Fekter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speaking time: 5 minutes. This also applies to the following speakers. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7881	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaßner, on your last sentence, namely to comply with laws, is worth a committee of inquiry [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You voted against it!]] What about colleagues who deliberately do not comply with laws that do not comply with the rules of procedure? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You do not comply with the laws!]] I am of the opinion that such a colleague as colleague herbs in a subcommittee or a committee of inquiry has not lost anything at all! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] I have the speech of Mr Gaßner... [[Abg. Arbitrators: Determine what the opposition is allowed to do in this house?]] - comply with the laws! Mr Schieder, you and everyone, including the opposition, are encouraged to comply with the laws. [[Abg. Arbitrators: And the rules.]] And if a colleague like herb deliberately disregards the Rules of Procedure and, despite knowledge – not negligently, despite knowledge – violates the law, then, I must say quite honestly, he violates the vow and has lost nothing in a subcommittee. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Don't judge that!]] Such a person is not suitable to exercise control! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: That's what a lawyer says!]] It was also very significant that Mr Gaßner, as the founder of this request, namely the investigation committee on the privatisation of voestalpine, did not lose a single sentence for privatisation. What kind of reasoning is that? [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: He has no reason! There's no reason!]] Have you learned this afternoon, Mr Gaßner? For the privatisation of the Voest, we do not need a committee of inquiry! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's it!]] This afternoon you heard that these things went into your pants in view of the SPÖ's special meeting. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: It's about complying with the laws! I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago.]] You do not even know your own request, Mr Gaßner. It says here: “Sell preparation for the federal shares of voestalpine AG”. And then the reason for your request – but you should not know that – is that the ÖIAG Act provides the target catalogue for privatisation, for example, to bring about the best possible increase in the value of companies through privatisation. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Where does this happen?]] No syllable in your reasoning, because you heard in the afternoon that since privatization there have been increases in value, but before that, when the decisions were still in the SPÖ centre, the Voest was almost bankrupt. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's absurd what you're saying!]] A second objective for privatisation is to create long-term secure jobs in Austria. And that's what you've been told this afternoon: By privatisation, for example, the Voest is now as successful as ever, the jobs are as safe as ever. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Why do you sell them then?]] That is why we do not need an investigation committee, because privatisation makes sense. We're not wasting people's wealth, but we're protecting these companies from your party headquarters. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is already significant that an investigation committee is required here, but the founder does not lose any syllables on the point that is the first one here. Now to the second part of the application, namely to the Employment Act and to the stencil regulation. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But now I'm curious!]] On this point, Mr Gaßner, we take the criticism of the Court of Auditors very seriously, and we also understand the need to comply with laws of course. Therefore, this afternoon, the Minister of Finance has precisely explained, the competent bodies are also appointed for the conclusion of the service contracts, e.g. for board contracts in accordance with § 75 Shares Act of the Supervisory Board. And therefore, the Minister of Finance has asked the Supervisory Board to ensure that these contracts are amended in accordance with the law, provided that they are not in any way void in those illegal parts which contradict the stencil regulation. In this respect, the Minister of Finance has also presented to us this afternoon this opinion, which addressed this nullity. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] It is true that we do not agree with a committee of inquiry because the Court of Auditors has carefully examined it. But you can enter into negotiations with us, whether we do not change the job regulations, as your Minister of Finance...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8099	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8114	... also Her Minister of Finance, Edlinger, had problems justifying legally compliant contracts at the post office. So we might change it...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8135	The speaking time has expired! [[I should like to say a few words about this. Dr. Fekter.]] Mr Wimmer came to speak. Same time of speech: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8168	Mr President. My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Fekter, you will be voting today They must explain to the Upper Austrians. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Have you made a vow or not?]] These will not understand your current behavior, perhaps at the same time as your address. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If one has followed the statements made by Minister Grasser today in the afternoon, one knows that such a committee of inquiry, which is the basis of our request, is more necessary than ever, because the statements of the Minister on this afternoon were really adventurous! In every European country, a responsible politician would resign if he made such statements. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Edellinger has not resigned either!]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! The criticism of the Court of Auditors, which has already been addressed today, is really devastating, but it does not matter to our Minister for Finance. For a year he did not touch himself at all, for we know that the first time in September of last year, these abuses were shown and published in the “Kurier”. It is essentially about four points which are largely addressed here, such as the real supercontract of the ÖIAG Chief Executive Officer. This too has been mentioned today. I really think that this is a strong piece to earn €684,000 a year, €43 000 extra for this as rent aid. I say from this point of view, ladies and gentlemen: That's unfair! This is so formulated and made against the law, and so made with knowledge against the law. Ladies and gentlemen! This also concerns the recoloration action in the board and in the supervisory councils. 16 Boards were replaced here alone, 100 Supervisory Boards were pushed in. Red was poured out, black and blue were pushed in. 18 million € in tax money has cost this enterprise. Here too, I think, belongs more closely. These processes should be examined. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors has vehemently criticized the selection of this staff advisor. I do not want to go into what corner this personal advisor has approached, but that all the documents that were necessary at the time to carry out this objectivity are no longer visible today, which are bordering, with confidence, ladies and gentlemen, on a criminal act. I say this quite consciously, because it is a scandal that is happening here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another criticism raised in the report must be broken directly on the tongue: The “sparable” federal government has taken action to save, and the conversions have always been justified by austerity measures. The fees of the Supervisory Boards have increased by 1 958 percent in the ÖIAG area, i.e. by around 2 000 percent, they have formally exploded. This is really a disastrous criticism, which simply screams for consequences, ladies and gentlemen. And how was the Minister's reaction to it, almost a year later? – He would have expected the Court of Auditors to praise him. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe this is pure cynicism, a cynicism that we as social democrats are deeply opposed to. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Minister has today meant that modern industrial policy is a site policy. There are also examples by which you might be able to control this a little. If I think only of how the ATW was privatized or, better said, how a renowned Austrian company was thrown away – perhaps only in four points: 10.6 billion schillings were made good for the Republic at the time, today we know that the English owner needs five years to make this money again, so the purchase price will be earned in five years. The beautiful house of the Directorate-General in Vienna has now been brought to the man, the identity has been erased. The status of the workforce, we heard two months ago, is 5 percent too high, that is, 5 percent are terminated. And I say, Yes, it was a good business, but not for this republic, but for the English owner. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: Today is really a black day for voestalpine employees. You from ÖVP and FPÖ have this to answer, and the people in Upper Austria will give you on 28 October. In September, the bill was presented.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8246	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8264	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A little campaign must of course also be here in this house, even if he should otherwise play in Upper Austria. Perhaps it is really related to the missing issues for social democracy in Upper Austria, because I do not think that the poster series of the SPÖ, which is now to be admired in Upper Austria, is a campaign for a federal uniform animal welfare law. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I myself assumed that this request – and for me it would be a classic case – will be withdrawn from you. I therefore assumed that the first part of this request, in which you are the subject of the investigation, is, as I think, done at the last item on the agenda here in the House. [[Abg. Dr. One: That was too much!]] They argue here that it is in particular about the federal shares of voestalpine AG. I believe that this has been discussed in detail in this House, and I believe that you, as democrats, should and must take note of a vote on it. I am – even though television is no longer live in it now – fully convinced that the path that is being taken and implemented here will be a good way for voestalpine and, above all, for its employees, and that this privatisation will ensure the future of the company accordingly. As to the second part of the subject-matter of the investigation you are referring to, the Minister of Finance has made a few explanatory words to that effect. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: When?]] Today in his speech here, Mr Gaßner! I wonder why you are asking a committee of inquiry, although you know that, because there are excesses with regard to the stencil regulation, talks between the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the President of the Court of Auditors will take place, further discussions will take place and take place in the Court of Auditors. Perhaps you would like to show once again a special degree of transparency, as Mr Herbe has done with the publication of a confidential report on his website on the Internet, and you may also have plans to do so within the framework of the Committee of Inquiry. We believe that this committee of inquiry, we consider this request to be an overall request that you would not have made better, and will certainly not give our consent. With regard to election campaign here in the house: Make the election campaign in Upper Austria! I believe that this is not an issue that is well suited for this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8314	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8332	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. This request is correct, necessary and meaningful! I do not know at all where the FPÖ euphoria comes from, that it now wants to refer the whole thing to the empire of the election campaign, but we have already agreed today not to let ourselves be too much with statements of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: Not at all!]] This Court of Auditors report is simply a tough bill, and I also tell you what it is with: a loud billing with “rerule”! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. In addition to Federal Minister Gorbach, Wittauer took place on the government bank.]] – You really have relatively little incentive to sit on the government bank. [[Call: He's already sitting upstairs.]] In reality, the government looks so that there is no blue man sitting up at all, because you've been leaving the government's armchairs for a long time. You can only take a symbolic seat. But let us come back to the real topic, to “rerule ” accounting. At that time, her parole was called “rerule. ” Let us remember the February 2000 and all that happened back then. [[Abg. Wittauer continues to speak with Federal Minister Gorbach on the government bank.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: ( towards the government bank) That's not how it goes!]] - I'd like to, but they're so loud. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It's kind of a problem. [[Federal Minister Gorbach and Abg. Wittauer goes to the end of the government bank and continues to talk there.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Now both are gone!]] – Yes, so it is with the FPÖ: At first, two of them are bowling together, and then they're both gone! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But perhaps we can now come up with the seriousness of the matter, because there is nothing unnecessary about this committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Scheibner: You won't succeed!]] I'll tell you: You have attached the slogan “new rule ” to your flags, at a time when some have still believed in you. At the latest – especially as regards the alleged anti-privileged fighters of the FPÖ – one should bury all hope regarding your credibility, because never, at least in recent years, has a report from the Court of Auditors, which expresses itself very diplomatically in its allegations, which has shown such mismanagement in the spheres of influence of several ministries, in the immediate sphere of influence. There is nothing to help the refugees of the Minister of Finance. In this Court of Auditors report, mismanagement, the business of friends and privileges is consistently identified on fifty pages, and you cannot disappear. That's where the question arises: Why is the Minister of Finance once again at the centre of such accusations? – My impression is: In fact, there are all the ingredients that have included a typical grass-scandal cocktail of spring that would be there: Counsellors for consultants who don't need people. What was it about? – To order the alleged depoliticized Supervisory Board of the ÖIAG. You need consultants to do that? Although one has already known before that there will be blue-black friends, especially those of Mr. Prinzhorn, who will only sit inside, you need an advisor to do so! That would have been sausage if it hadn't cost so much! On the one hand, they have thrown out tax money from the window and, on the other hand, they have faked transparency, which in reality did not exist. That is exactly what the Court of Auditors now has to say. To this problem you have also missed the tender rules! Not enough that Princehorn-Friends should join the Supervisory Board, even the staff consulting firm from the Freundeskreis Prinzhorns had to come. So far it has been with depoliticization at that time! And now you get all this presented. The tragedy is that you still financed this with a lot of tax money. That alone justify the establishment of an investigation committee. But it goes even further: The contracts of this Supervisory Board, which now registers a multiple of what the old one had in honours – look just as much like: totally excess benefits to the managers, not because of their salary or not so much because of them, but because of payment and pension payments, which are all illegal. And then you want to make yourself in retrospect and say: Well, perhaps the stencil regulation is the problem and not market-compliant, we do not change the Treaties, but we change the laws and the regulation! This is your access! Only when you were caught that this line is publicly unsustainable did you find it convenient to call on the ÖIAG to comply with the laws in the future. To do this, I have to say: Very weak! And then trust. She's still showing herself with moral index fingers on colleagues herbs. That's not going on! Mr Herzegovina has set up an emergency campaign, because what you have mentioned in the Committee of Inquiry has clearly been a cover, but one has proved to be a conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8463	After all four political groups have spoken, the debate is now closed. We shall come to the vote on Mr Cap's request to set up the committee of inquiry referred to in this question. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of setting up this committee of inquiry to give a sign on this point. – I notice: That's the minority. The application is rejected. Request for a permanent declaration from a committee
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8498	It is my request according to § 46 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of Members of the European Parliament. Mr Kogler, colleagues and colleagues, asked the Court of Auditors to continue its work during the part-session to deal with the following matters: Consideration of the Court of Auditors' exercise report on sub-areas of the Federal Government's conduct in III-42 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have made this request by the honourable Member. Kogler agrees to a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Decision to terminate the 2003 extraordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8525	In agreement with the political groups, I should now like to make the following request to the House: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is invited to attend the current extraordinary meeting of XXII in 2003. National Council legislative period at the end of the 2nd century. to be declared terminated on September 2003.’ I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. This request for an end to the extraordinary meeting has just been adopted unanimously. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8556	In order to allow for the immediate completion of this decision by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, I shall read the relevant part of the official protocol in accordance with a written request from 20 Members. This passus is: 'At the request of the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Molterer, Dr. Cap, Scheibner and Dr. Glawischnig, the National Council unanimously adopted the following decision: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is invited to attend the current extraordinary meeting of XXII in 2003. National Council legislative period at the end of the 2nd century. To be declared terminated on September 2003,’. It is a question of whether there is any objection to this version of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. Therefore, the relevant part of the Protocol shall apply in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8598	I can still say that at today's meeting, the requests for 208/A to 210/A and for questions 784/J to 801/J have been received. Question 8/JPR has also been received. We have done the agenda and all the other things, so I can declare the sitting closed. The sitting is closed.
