ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3826	Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to take the seats. The meeting was opened. I very much welcome you all to this week of the National Council. ==References====External links== Meeting of 17 March 1990 ==References== On June 25, 2003, parts of the Official Protocols of 25 and 26 were not selected. Parliament's management session remained unanswered and undisputed. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3854	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasserbecomes by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance Dr. Alfred Finzreiter. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3881	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “growth strategies for Austria” First of all, Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner. He speaks to us for 10 minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3905	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The economic world economic situation is as it is. The growth forecasts are not satisfactory, the economic research institutes reduce all forecasts over the course of two to three months. As a small but internationally highly interwoven economy, we cannot change this. The possibilities of the EU are limited. An effort has been made to bring about a reduction in interest rates. However, the real possibilities will be in the area of the European Investment Bank when it comes to forcing infrastructure projects accordingly. The national scope for action, ladies and gentlemen, is limited to the economists. Erich Streissler has – obviously a little puzzling – the question: What can Austria do in the economic sector in terms of economic policy and economic growth? Is there any need for a policy action to be taken? means: Nothing! However, the state can provide a good mood. And that's exactly what it is: We need this good mood. As you know, economics is the presumption of expectations. Economy depends on the mood, on psychology. This implies a discussion of the competitiveness of the site, but also of the active economic and structural policy in our country with our possibilities. Of course, this is not only a task of the government, but also a task of the opposition, and of course it is so that the opposition must be critical. [[Unrest in the hall.]] But I already see a problem when Mr Matznetter, Mr. Budget spokesman of the Social Democrats, tries to present the Austrian position worse than it is on every occasion – most recently in the “Open” programme. He mentions as examples the...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3945	Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to dampen the general discussions. You can't hear the speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3960	As an example, Dr. Matznetter always mentions the per capita production value, the international growth rates and the debt ratio of 67.8 percent. In essence, however, these allegations of a more precise debate do not stand. If, by chance, you have read yesterday the report by Dr. Kausel – my knowledge of a social democrat – but it does not matter – then you will have seen that he wrote in the “Wiener Zeitung”: ‘In general, there is not the slightest indication of Austria’s loss of position in the EU and OECD areas.’ It is precisely this evidence that can be seen by looking at the facts, such as economic growth. In the field of economic growth, you should see that we are intertwined internationally with three countries, namely Germany, Italy and Switzerland, and that we have more than 50 percent of our external trade relations there. It is therefore right that you make a comparison of the growth rates with these three countries. We are better than all three countries. This means that we have excellent growth rates and are, of course, dependent on economic developments in these countries. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: We have a positive current account. Some of the speakers of the Social Democrats are always trying to present this as if it had suffered from economic policy. – Just the opposite is the case! We have not experienced economic policy, but have achieved it through export effort. In the last two years, we have expanded our exports by 14 percent in the OECD sector, corresponding to market shares. We had an increase in exports by 4.1 percent in 2002. This means that we are in a time that is very difficult to export Europeans. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have focused exports not only very strongly on the existing EU territory, but also on the future candidate countries of enlargement. There is an increase of 7.9 percent there alone. This is very positive in that it is an emancipation strategy that is being driven by what means nothing but that it is correct by the Federal Government that we see and become active in the EU the great opportunity for growth and employment. Second example: the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, much is criticized for having an unemployment rate of 4.3 percentage points. Compare this with 1998! There we had 4.5 percent unemployment rate despite a better economy. This means that we are in a proper structural position in the labour market and are now right, because the corresponding term of mediation has also been reduced. Therefore, economic growth is expected to increase, we will also have corresponding rates of increase in the field of work, and unemployment will decline relatively rapidly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The right strategy in this area is not to act with employment programmes but with further deregulation. There's still a lot in front of us. I would just like to mention the rules on feasibility, but also the abuse we see in many areas, but we are still ignoring them. In my opinion, it is necessary for us to stop abuse without suspecting a flat-rate other unemployed – a difficult but important task. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Thirdly, there is research and development, in my opinion, a key factor. This is not about money alone – 600 million euros are a lot – but it is also about structures. We will soon have a national fund. However, I could also imagine extending the research allowance accordingly to contract research or the creative sector. There are corresponding rates of increase. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, research always depends on the project. You cannot define and develop research anywhere in the neutral field, but always on the project. Therefore, the counter-businesses, a billion € already next year, will be a multiplier, a demand-oriented multiplier that we urgently need for jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am already in the debate with politics, as it has led the opposition lately. Those who want to make atypical and new self-employed people into workers, those who fight structural unemployment with investment promotion, those who want to finance the health system exclusively in solidarity, those who think that the state is the better businessman, do not offer any problem solutions that simply claim to be concerned with symptoms, but do not treat the disease and are de facto longing for an anaesthetic. What we need, ladies and gentlemen, is trust, optimism, active strategy instead of old recipes. However, there is no alternative to the reconstruction of the state. This brings me to a very important part for Upper Austria too, namely the question of how to proceed with the nationalists. Recently, a discussion has emerged according to the motto: Is the state the right one, is the state a good owner? Ladies and gentlemen! I think there are good reasons to say that the state is not a good owner. We live in a time of international interdependence, because we no longer need a public owner when it comes to securing production. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] We see at the capital market, we are undercapitalized. The state, the public hand has proved to be repressive when it comes to capital increases. With it, my Ladies and gentlemen, I am also at the point: Mr. Nuremberger and others – he's not here right now – always believe that they can take a zigzag course, back to programs of old time in the national lighting sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] What have you achieved when you say now that we do not want to conceal public resources, we do not want a job destruction policy? – But this is exactly what you did if you believed you could survive with such strategies that the public owner secures employment. We have paid more than 100 billion Schilling in grants in the national states and then reduced 50 000 jobs. – This cannot be the employment policy you mean! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In social terms, what proves to be inefficient. And here you can read the Court of Auditors reports on the years 1995 to 1999 which deal more or less with privatisations. What do you see there? – There you can see that state assets have been thrown away. I'm just telling you one example: Sale of the so-called company VOEST-Alpine Bergtechnik. There was a book value of 145 million schilling there. A sales value of 200 to 500 million schilling was estimated. The ÖIAG has devalued the book value to a schilling and paid for the loss cover 489 million schilling to make the sale price of a schilling. – Ladies and gentlemen! That's a great, efficient policy! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Tossed! This is socialist economic policy!]] And you know what else's going on? They always say that the Minister of Finance has used consultative fees without writing out. At that time, no tender was issued, and 230 million were used alone for consulting fees, without having the necessary efficiency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Incredible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Is there not!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to be efficient, if we want to be socially efficient, then we need a privatisation policy, as it is done,...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4069	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4085	... also towards Upper Austria, privatization and Austrian barrier minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4112	Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke on a preliminary opinion. Your statements should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4130	Mr President. Mr Gorbach! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Mitterlehner has already stated that the world economic situation is not simple: Weaknesses in the economy, growth flute everywhere. If I can remind you that in June 2002, the Wifo forecasted a further 2.8 percent growth in 2003, but in June 2003 the growth forecast for this year decreased to 0.7 percent – that is, 2.1 percent less than it should have been or could have been a year ago – then you know that economic and financial policy is facing considerable challenges. The euro zone has a growth of just 1 percent. With regard to Germany: Who knows if there will be any number behind the zero at all. To this end, Mr Mitterlehner's analysis: Austria is an economic operator. Our spaces are limited, but, ladies and gentlemen, that doesn't mean that we don't want to use these spaces, can and will. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In these days, Austria shows that it is also possible in difficult environments to improve its location attractiveness. It was reported yesterday by our central bank that, in the first quarter, investments from foreigners to Austria, in Austrian locations, increased from €0.7 billion to €1.2 billion in the previous year – a very positive aspect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the Lisbon process, this benchmarking within Europe, we have improved in number 5 in the last year, while in the previous year we were still in place 8. But I say quite frankly, we are only satisfied if we have a stockpiling place when we are among the three best in Europe as far as our competitiveness is concerned. As Mr Mitterlehner referred to the labour market and I am of course concerned as Minister of Labour when unemployment increases by 4.8 percent over the year, I would like to say that 200 000 unemployed in June – and this is also part of the task of illuminating both sides of the medal: We are, for the first time, the country of Europe, which has the lowest youth unemployment after years of youth unemployment. We are the country of Europe, which has the third lowest level of unemployment in total, which is also noted here. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'll come to the labour market a little later. Let me now come to the rooms that exist and we want to benefit! I see scope especially in three areas: first of all in solving growth brakes. Where there are growth brakes in Austria, for example, where we are final light in Europe in the area of shop opening, we now adopt a modern shop opening law that will allow Austrians to purchase by 9 p.m. from August, which will allow Austrian merchants to keep open until 9 p.m. Second important aspect: In the next few weeks, Austria will have to resist the temptation to force the economy with debt Deficit donation, Austro-Keynesianism, to resort to old recipes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Completely wrong! One sees in Japan where this led or did not lead, one sees it in Germany. So there will be a very great refusal to resist this temptation. Unfortunately, someone's side politicians, that is, stimulating demand-side, is not working. We want to pursue supply-side, supply-oriented economic and financial policies. It is therefore essential to continue consistently the path that this government has taken, a policy which, for example, raises the cost of education. From my point of view as Minister of Economic Affairs, it is the most important infrastructure and economic policy at all to continue to invest in education policy. We currently invest 8.3 billion € per year – compared to 1998 with 7 billion € at that time a remarkable increase! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Or because the Minister for Innovation and Infrastructure is sitting next to me: It is important that we go in the direction of 2.5 percent R & D-Quote. It is important that we invest €600 million more in research and development. It is important that we establish a research and technology foundation with new resources, with fresh money. We will continue to report on this in the autumn. And it is important that we achieve huge successes in terms of infrastructure, traffic and road especially in Brussels. I would like to congratulate you, Mr. Minister, on this. It is important that we are active there and do more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Even though our labour market is more flexible than elsewhere – 1.5 million Austrians change their jobs per year – it is important that in terms of labour market policy we pay more attention to what comes out, i.e. an output-oriented labour market policy. We now know what we are investing, it is more than in the past, but stronger than before, because we pay attention to quality. We ensure that labour market funds really lead to more jobs, to better mediation. We will continue the youth employment offensive, which we have agreed to together, and it will be possible for every youth seeking an apprenticeship to receive at least one course. That is what German Chancellor Schüssel and I have promised, and that will continue to be observed in the future. As a result, I congratulate the economy and thank her for having completed 1.6% more apprenticeship contracts in difficult times in the first half of this year than in the same period of the previous year. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] But it has already been critically noted here, ladies and gentlemen, that there are no comprehensible regional differences in Austria. When youth labour market statistics show Vienna plus 5 600 unemployed – 60 percent and more of the total increase in Austria – this is unexplainable, just as it is gratifying and points to a good economic and financial policy of a regional nature if you can book in Upper Austria, not far away from Vienna, minus 1 200 unemployed in June. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This difference, ladies and gentlemen, is all remarkable. Member of the Mitterlehner referred to the subject of privatisation. Let us not be irritated by short-term developments here! The privatisation of the ÖIAG, Mr President Vergestnich, is a unique success story in the Second Republic. Within a few years, to privatize largely in consensus and reduce ÖIAG's debt from €6.3 billion to €2 billion and thus to create self-financing is a success story that we should not be torn apart in this difficult environment in recent weeks. It will be possible to privatise VOEST in a way that ensures first of all an Austrian core shareholder and, second, that the stand-alone solution remains one of the strongest steel groups in the world and in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I warn you to enter the polemics of these days, which reads: Let's leave the VOEST at the state! – That’s not good for the company, the board doesn’t want it, and the employees don’t want it either. [[Abg. Wimmer: Who's telling you that?- Oh, my God!]] And, dear Dr. Gusenbauer, you didn't want to! We both discussed this issue in a discussion for the “trend” in November last year – that was before the elections, I admit. At that time you said, Dr. Gusenbauer, in the original tone – and you have authorized that you actually said so –: There are no good reasons for state ownership in production companies. However, I am in favour of an Austrian core shareholder, who may well be private. - Quote. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer, I am entirely with you – and we were in agreement at the time. I am still of the same opinion, I hope you have not changed your opinion since then, because it is in itself a reasonable one. – The State as an entrepreneur should have served. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me mention one more point in the principles of economic policy, because it is important, and then, when it comes to resisting the temptation to talk about a new economy with new debts, which does not come anyway: We want and will continue the course of budget consolidation in this difficult environment. Yes, we have presented a budget – and it is so that it shows a deficit of 1.3 percent for 2003, while the European Union as a whole is 2.3 percent in this respect. In 2004, it will be reduced to 0.7%, while the European Union will have an average of 2.2%. Of course, we will also achieve the 2004 tax reform as planned – and in addition to the economic packages 1 and 2 last year, the overall discharge effect in 2006 will amount to no less than €1.3 billion. But now, just because someone else, who has much, much bigger problems, suddenly wants to prefer a tax reform without counter-financing: Let us also quickly prefer tax reform, which I think is a wrong way, because this would be a way back to the past, namely to finance a tax reform on debt and pump. But I think that we should give the right signals in the next few weeks to strengthen the location and especially the economy. I think that the economy and potential investors should soon know what is happening to them in 2005 and: What about the corporate and therefore corporate tax rate in Austria? Will it be possible to reduce it to 31 percent and even deeper in the medium term? At least I believe that this is imperative. How do we keep up with the peak tax rate in Austria when it is different all around and it goes back? – We should define the signal that will happen in 2005 as soon as possible, but we should not go ahead with a tax reform on pump in the sense of debt, this path, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4233	Mr Grossruck. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speech time: 5 minutes, like all other participants in the discussion, including the members of the government. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4251	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Mr Bartenstein, Minister for Economic Affairs, has shown impressively where the way in Austria will lead towards successful economic policy – and this is also to be read in the government programme. On the Technology and Research Plan: In 2004 and 2005, there will be the biggest tax reform that has ever existed in Austria, with a discharge of €3 billion and around 40 billion schilling. Further: The wage costs for older workers are reduced, ladies and gentlemen, and the low income of €14 500 and €200 000 per year are completely tax-free. 200 000 Austrians will benefit from this! This is economic policy and discharge! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the case of holdings, profits not collected – an old claim! – half the tax rate will be charged. To compare the budget deficit: Germany 3.7 percent in relation to gross domestic product, France 3%, Italy 2.3 percent – and Austria 0.6 percent. In Austria, a sixth budget deficit compared to Germany! These are numbers that can be seen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! How it goes – that has already been mentioned today – the Federal State of Upper Austria proves at the forefront with the head of state Dr. Pühringer: There will be a policy with a guarantee of success. Upper Austria is, as it were, a multiple state champion, in various interests. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: World Champion!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] – Listen, and then argue! Upper Austria is, as it were, state champions of what is going on in unemployment policy. In Upper Austria, the unemployment rate fell by 5.7% in June of this year. We have practically full employment: with an unemployment rate of only 3.5 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The comparison makes us sure because in Vienna the unemployment rate is 8.9 percent, which is more than twice as high as in Upper Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And with the red Vienna?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: (in the direction of SPÖ) There you can learn something!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is due – and I say this quite clearly – to a labour market policy in Upper Austria, in which the labour market administration, which has been divided, is also actively involved: with the head of state Dr. Obrovsky, but also with the district authorities who are willing and eager to get out of the SPÖ and finally to work economically and unemployedly. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] To refer also to the example of my home district Grieskirchen: The labour market service Grieskirchen was the first to receive the ISO certificate, it is a labour market service that seeks to cooperate with the municipalities, with the economy, with the authorities, and in just five years the residence of the unemployed could be reduced from 109 days to 75 days. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Grieskirchen is the world champion!]] We had an unemployment rate of only 2.9 percent in the Grieskirchen district, in June. [[Bravorufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: World Champion!]] This is practically full employment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Upper Austria is also a state champion, which is the apprenticeship training, which leads to apprenticeship employment. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: World Champion!]] Of 540 000 employees, 23 000 are apprentices. Upper Austria is also the head of state in the creation of jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: World Champion!]] Every day 28 new jobs are created in Upper Austria! That's 2 800 jobs in 100 days! [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] Upper Austria is also ‘export icons’: A quarter of the total export comes from Upper Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: World Champion!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Olympic winner!]] ==References====External links==* Official website [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: World Champion!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Olympic winner!]] On average, there are 2.7 administrative officials per 1 000 inhabitants in Austria; in Vienna 4.5 – in Upper Austria, on the other hand, only 1.7 per 1 000 inhabitants. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Upper Austria is also a state champion in research and development with 20 new technology centres, 660 new businesses and 3,400 jobs. Upper Austria is also the master of state, which is the result of social expenditure, ladies and gentlemen. And then the circle closes: One can only get the social state if the economic parameters fit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Social expenditure in Upper Austria has quadrupled from 1995 to 2003, while all other expenditure has doubled. First, the economy has to be in order – then we can afford state spending. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Mr President, I am coming to my final point.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4500	That was the closing point, thank you! [[I should like to say a few words about this. Grandruck.]] The lyrics on the next occasion, Mr Deputies! Mr Gusenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4533	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of today's exercise has become apparent through the speech of Mr Grossruck. ==References== On March 1st, in every speech in Parliament, the ÖVP stated that the absolute best in Austria were, of course, the Lower Austrians. And everyone asked themselves the question: Why are they just the Lower Austrians? – Answer: Because they had country elections! Now the elections are over, and the Austrians are immediately declared world champions by the ÖVP. I just wonder if the Tyrolean Members of the EIA do not feel somewhat ill-treated here by their group, since you obviously cannot explain both at the same time to the best. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, this kind of presentation does not, of course, solve the problems ahead. Mr Bartenstein! If you praise the development of youth unemployment, I must tell you that, as a responsible minister, you should be more concerned that over the last three years, the number of youth unemployed has increased from 24 000 to over 34 000 young people and that, unfortunately, nothing has been left of the so-called employment guarantee and training guarantee for apprentices other than empty promises. The fact that you do not think anything else today than to repeat the old promises without mentioning a single concrete measure means nothing more than that you want to continue the initiativelessness in this sector to the detriment of young people in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You should explain another matter to us on an occasion, Minister. You've been holding a suada wordfully here and you've said: Tax reform on pump, that is not possible! – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! I'm trying to take a look at the government program of the black and blue coalition. There it can be found that in 2005, i.e. the year in which the so-called largest tax reform is planned all the time, the budget deficit will be increased by €2 billion and written. Minister, I ask you: What is the other thing but to make a tax reform on pump and debt if you yourself plan in your government programme to increase government debt by €2 billion in the year of tax reform? – Tell So you do not submit to Parliament any untruths, but you are putting forward measures to finance a tax reform. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] On the third point, on the issue of public ownership of undertakings. In fact, it is true that there is not necessarily a systemic reason for there to be public ownership in industrial enterprises. The history of Austria has led to a relatively large nationalized industry, and, as you have correctly said, in recent years, a partial privatisation has been carried out, which has been highly successful in many areas. If you look at the VOEST Alpine, you can see that today is the only profitable steel group in Europe, with a mixed production structure and a mixed property structure. I am of the opinion that it is not necessary to address this question dogmatically and to insist on either a de facto or that in this context, either more state is better or more private property. I'd say, Let's see what the development strategies the VOEST Alpine, their Board of Directors, have presented for the next few years! Everyone who is concerned with this knows that the VOEST Alpine as a highly active group has started an investment programme of €2 billion, that this investment programme will double in the coming years according to all the forecasts of the company and share value, and that the leadership of the VOEST Alpine would have preferred the existing ownership structure to remain stable until the end of this investment programme and then discuss what a future ownership structure should look like. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's not true! That's just not right! Strull says the opposite! Everyone says the opposite!]] Now, at the moment, selling the VOEST Alpine is a concealment of public property and not a real industrial policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's not true! President-in-Office of the Council.]] Something else you need to explain to us: If you try to sell the Austrian Telekom to Swiss Swisscom this week and accompany it with the words...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4602	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4617	...that the state is not a good owner, then I ask you: Should the Swiss State be a better owner than the Austrian State?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4644	The next speaker was Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4665	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We often learn at this time that the world economic situation is very difficult. That is why, as I believe, it is a requirement to consider here how growth opportunities for Austria can be improved and what one can contribute to this from the political point of view. The stand is not very satisfactory. We know that real economic growth, the forecast increase in GDP, has decreased from 2.2% to 1.1% from September 2002 to March 2003. Also the forecasts for 2004 are not really rosy and have been constantly revised. Ladies and gentlemen! When I compare it with Germany, I do not do so because there is a red-green government there and to show how badly it works, but because Germany as our most important foreign trade partner of course has a very strong influence on the economic situation in Austria. It is known that a minimum growth of 2.5 percent is required to secure or create jobs. These effects on the labour market, of course, have led to a comparison, and that has already been done. The unemployment situation in Austria is admittedly anything but satisfying, for every unemployed person is a unemployed person too much. Nevertheless, we must make an international comparison in this situation. I believe that the opposition will also have to see that we are pursuing the best possible labour market policy in Austria, otherwise our figures in this regard would not be so favourable in international comparison. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. May. Molterer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What national policies can be taken to improve the situation? . I think that a large number of measures have been taken over the past two years, which have also not been easy. For example, significant amounts of debt and interest payments have been reduced in the area of national industry. There have been liberalisation steps, beyond what is necessary, which the EU has given us as a whole. I am thinking, for example, of electricity and gas liberalisation, which has led to the fact that these energy sources in Austria are now cheaper to use. The administrative burden has also been reduced. In view of poor economic data, appropriate impulses must be set. In the past, economic packages 1 and 2 have already been set up as a measure. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in 2001 and 2002, the increase in exports contributed to a positive economic growth. In other words, the increase in the share of exports in Austria has contributed significantly to this success, to this improvement in the situation. What measures are under way? – In 2004, for example, the reduction in the tax rate for profits not collected. Now you can say that this measure is not the only happy thing to do. I believe, however, that this is just as much as the tax exemption for income up to a gross turnover of €14 500 is a measure which affects direct domestic demand. It benefits, and a positive domestic demand is crucial for economic growth. [[The red lamb flashes on the speaker's sleeve.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion: We know that counter-businesses, the increase in R & D ratios and a positive basic setting are important for the economic development of this country, and I would ask you to make your contribution to this and not just to be ill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4741	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4759	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In view of the topic of this current hour – “growth strategies for Austria” – I thought that there is a problem-consciousness by the government in the form of something to be done here. That would be quite gratifying if you realized that, but what you have done so far does not at all indicate to you that what you have decided in the budget, for example, does not at all correspond to what you might call growth strategy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Again and again, we have a very low national margin for freedom in terms of economic activity. That is, of course, right, but it is “successful for you to use this small margin only in the negative sense. In contrast to other countries in the EU, you have managed to use the scope in such a way that you have finally strangled down what was still in Austria's purchasing power, on recovery. We have an absolute loss of purchasing power due to the measures you have imposed through the budget and the budget accompanying laws! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is, of course, a way to boost this purchasing power. It's always disputed how fast a tax relief should be, but you say that a tax relief boosts the purchasing power; otherwise you wouldn't do such a thing. The point is: How fast is that supposed to happen? . Our opinion was and still is that this should happen sooner than later and to such an extent that the charges actually exceed the taxes. This is, however, very questionable in relation to the burdens you have decided on. In a very concrete area, which from your point of view is actually necessary for economic growth, you do not get beyond general places. For example, Mr Mitterlehner once again claimed that there was progress in the field of research, development and education, and that was actually a growth-relevant one. The EU has decided that 3 percent of GDP is the target for EU countries in the field of research and development. You have done 2.5 percent yourself by the government, but from this point of view you are miles away! It is not even the touch of an attempt to feel that you want to get there. While you have undertaken to increase the share of GDP to 2.01 percent by 2003 and reach 2.5 percent by 2006, you lack at least 600 if not 800 million € to achieve this goal. And this money is nowhere, absolutely nowhere in sight! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second point in the field of research and development – after all, it is not just about finances – is the question of human resources. In its 2003 research and technology report, the government writes that human resources are a key indicator of what the knowledge-based economy looks like. These resources are not as they should be, yes they are not even in the EU section. If you look at the relationship between researchers and the working population, you realize that this is embarrassingly low in Austria. We do not even come to five researchers per 100,000 persons employed. This is below the EU average, which is 5.4, but is also well below the proportion that Sweden or Finland have, for example, between nine and even 16. That is, there is indeed a deficit, and once you have to put on the table concrete measures to increase the proportion of researchers in Austria. [[New condolences with the greens.]] In this context, a “detail” which is not quite typical: The share of researchers in the research potential is between 19 and 43 percent across the EU. And you can guess where Austria is. - Right! 19 percent. Thus, Austria is absolutely clear as to the proportion of researchers in the research potential. And there are no measures that would change this. [[Abg. Lens: Why?]] Why? – This is how you deal with the human resources in Austria, including the resources of women! You will not want to say that the women are the worse researchers! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is, you will have to look at where this “glass ceiling ” is. There are sufficient studies to this end. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] My final sentence: What we need is not announcements, empty words and lip confessions, but measures, concrete measures, with figures, where you demonstrate how you want to boost growth in areas such as research and technology.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4845	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4863	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! It's been said a few times today: We cannot decouple ourselves from an international development! But there is the famous little difference, for example, between Germany and Austria, as I find it, very clearly: the difference, like the government of a small country that is driving on a success course, as opposed to that of a large country, which is also psychologically rigid, can act as a motivator and an engine. And we have used this small difference in government work for the benefit of our country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] How big the small difference actually is is very strong especially in the western federal states bordering Germany. We were swimming on the weekend at the Walchsee, a small lake, right on the border with Bavaria, and came there to talk to young people, almost by the bath cloth next door. Two of them were unemployed – they had just lost their job in Munich – and immediately asked us: Where could we apply? We're thinking: Salzburg? Vienna? We come to Innsbruck, they said, a friend of ours is already there, and there are jobs there. I asked: And in Munich? This is actually a big city! – That’s where they said: hopeless, hopeless! It became clear to me that we have the lowest youth unemployment and, in total, a much lower unemployment, although as a small country we have to do much harder. A good government policy thus makes it possible, even psychologically, to be better than others. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is also the reason why research and development are not just keywords. We must give the young people in Austria the feeling: We do this, we pick it up; and we have the necessary armor for it! We know that across Europe, no matter in which country, job growth is possible only in small and medium-sized enterprises that are either close to technology, with innovative products, or close to people, with services that need to be provided exactly where the person who needs these services lives. So if there is only growth in these areas, which is also reflected in jobs, we must be clear that it is not just a matter of putting as much money into research and development as possible. We'll do that anyway! What does it actually look like? – The research rate in Austria – and I would like to hear that from you! – today is as high as never before, with the aim of reaching 2.5 percent of gross domestic product by 2006. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] We will do that – and the European objective: We reach 3 percent by 2010, Mrs. Sburny, too. But we must use these funds where they also benefit the average citizen. We must also use these funds for research and development in small and medium-sized enterprises, and I think that is where we have successfully put the lever. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... Mr Finanzminister's PR agreements!]] For example, in Tyrol, in a country with an excellent university, we have established a total of nine centres of competence, half with funds from the federal government – thank you very much, Mr. Federal Minister! – and half by means of the country – also an effort by the state of Tyrol, the head of state, the Council of Economics. In these centres of competence, the great insights of our strength fields – the university at all, the excellent medical faculty of our university – are brought together with the important companies in our country, it is being researched and worked together so that new companies, new growth, new jobs – also decentralized, in the countries, in Tyrol, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4918	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. Speaking time: 5 minutes. [[The ringing of a cell phone can be heard.]] - I hear a cell phone ringing. What is it? - No cell phone. Good. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4942	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the most reasonable growth strategy for Austria would be to support the EU’s Lisbon Strategy – it has already been mentioned – that is, the strategy to make the EU the most dynamic economic area in the world by 2010, with four areas that focus on: Firstly, sustainable growth of an average of 3 per cent by 2010; secondly, more and better jobs; thirdly, higher social cohesion; and fourthly: Sustainability of economic action. [[Abg. Großruck: The Socialists in Germany show how!]] Behind that is the realization that the previous unilateral commitment to the Maastricht criteria could not prevent the economic crisis, which is unquestionably present. I believe that if the EU Commission and the Council were already slightly different from their neoliberal position, then the Austrian Federal Government would also be well advised to do so and not just leave it in the case of lip confessions, as they are included in the economic report. In reality, it is the Federal Government that relies on the old recipes, namely deregulation and privatisation in the sense of selling companies and corporate shares and also on social reduction under the cover of financing the social systems. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, employment policy is at the heart of a meaningful economic policy in the spirit of the Lisbon process. And if the EU rightly calls for greater training and qualification measures, i.e. higher investment in this area, it is to be said that this is not free. This costs a little, and this will tax public budgets in the short term. This is not only at zero rates and not at zero deficit rates at all. In other words, public finances need to be used much more employment and growth-oriented. This requires, among other things, a clear separation of current budget expenditure and investment budget expenditure in this area. However, this also means a significant shift in the tax burden from labour to capital, but not within the meaning of comprehensive wage reductions. Cost reductions may make sense in certain segments of the labour market, such as older workers, but they do not make sense if they are used across the board – we know that from the economy – because they produce mainly take-over effects but do not create new jobs. In the area of wage taxes, for example, the EU itself argued that if wage tax reductions are made, they are to be done in the lower-income third. This is not only a socially justified redistribution measure, but, of course, also helps the economy because domestic consumption rates here are significantly higher than in other areas of income. Unfortunately, the time is not enough to discuss the entire spectrum of the Lisbon strategy here in detail, but there are also some key points for Austria, as I mean. What we need under this strategy is lower taxes on small incomes, higher taxation of capital and lower taxation of labour, higher social cohesion, increased public investment in training, skills and infrastructure. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Why did you reject the tax reform?]] We also need Europe-wide innovation networks and research cooperatives, and we need to concentrate macro-economics on employment and growth. We need improved access to the new media for all, and we also need an apprenticeship offensive. – I hope, Federal Minister Bartenstein, that you have already signed the reception of 57 apprentices for the ÖBB. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What we currently have, unlike what we actually need for the growth strategy, are announced reductions in corporate tax and total wage reductions that will not create new jobs. Additional burdens are announced, such as restraints, which also affect small incomes. A socially unbalanced pension reform has been decided, public budget cuts are being made, there are business-spar models for few instead of venture capital funds for SMEs, a national fragmentation of research agendas, a taboo of the Maastricht criteria and therefore neoliberalism and sponsored homepages for ministers. – All of this, ladies and gentlemen, will not create any additional growth!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5012	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5031	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I think it is known to all of us that we too do not live in an island of the Blessed. We too depend on global economic development, especially on the economic situation in Germany. Here you can hold: While in Germany a red-green government stands for a standstill, the highest budget deficit and social reduction, in Austria we consolidated the budget – even if you do not want to hear it – but at the same time strengthens purchasing power, sets growth impulses and relieves the lowest income. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Wrong!]] You've missed that in the last 30 years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's all wrong what you say!]] With two economic recovery packages, we have facilitated business start-ups and for the first time gave apprentices the opportunity to obtain money from the state, thus bringing apprenticeship training closer to student training. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Over 30,000 apprentices are unemployed! A whore!]] But one of our central election promises was child money, and here we really write a success story. If Mrs. State Secretary and Mr. Vice-Chancellor have recently honoured the hundred thousandth child money baby and the corresponding arrangements for multiple births have been decided, I say: First of all, it is a purchasing power boost with more than €300 million, and second, I would like to stress that the success story of Carinthia's child money has gone out. I still remember very well this debate in Carinthia, where child money was made ridiculous by the media and by red and black, and all decisions were blocked by the government of that time. It wasn't until the Kärntner Landeshaupt said: Now we are making a popular survey!, decisions were suddenly possible. You can see: Some things just need longer. In this context, I am also thinking of apprentice free rides, because these too have been taken from Carinthia. Our Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Social Affairs Herbert Haupt has finally made it possible for apprentices to travel freely throughout Austria, even if: You don't want to hear that. That too is your failure for more than 30 years, a failure of social democracy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: That was the Bartenstein!]] But we're also capable of learning. In the course of the pension insurance debate, we completely failed that we also abolished the ambulance fees. [[Abg. Silhavy: That must not be true!]] We, the ÖVP and the FPÖ, have done this, and I ask the Social Democrats and the Greens: Why didn't you agree to the abolition of ambulance charges? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] But I also ask you: Why, in the course of these decisions, did you vote against the tax reform, including one of the central election promises by the liberals, namely to relieve the lower incomes in the first step? And if you don't want to hear the numbers...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5142	Mr Parnigoni! In the plenary, there's a limit on telephone calls! Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5161	... Workers who are relieved of it, of which 350 000 single-earners and single-parents alone, and – I am delighted with this – 730 000 pensioners who really need every cent. And these are offset by this first step of tax reform. I say this very emotionally: We liberals, first of all the head of the Carinthian state, demanded vehement last year. Neither the coalition partner nor the finance minister was convinced that this meant a stronger purchasing power and that the last year should have come around this time. But I also say: I am glad that it is at least now that this has been decided and that there is now this discharge. If we continue to debate a second step in the tax reform, I say: It must be legitimate, in some cases, to think of some measure earlier, namely in the direction of further relief, in particular of bureaucracy and a simpler tax system. – That was always our demand. We have always stated that it is not only about discharge, but also about simplification, that is, it goes towards a simple central tax system. We will really negotiate with the coalition partner what is still to be done – perhaps a discharge in one area or another before 2005. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5201	The last speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Speaking time: 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5230	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Grossruck has no longer come to his poetry, which follows at the end of his speeches. It was still Upper Austria's election, but I do not blame him, because all the political groups here do so in a certain regular manner. What I blame you for is that it obviously belongs to your election strategy, that you are working from the EIAP to ensure that the Minister of Finance in Parliament no longer has to answer for the Pallawach he has in the last months. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is already relevant for Upper Austria. We'll be back soon. Let's leave the homepage, let's do everything that follows, but we're talking about location policy – which has a lot to do with growth policy in particular – because, as rarely before, there's been damage to the national government shares that still exist, and thus to the company voestalpine. No one less than the Minister of Finance has been able to secure government governance in the Group through a privatisation order and with the agreement of the ÖVP in the government – I am in favour of it. This is for you location policy, growth policy? That's a good development for the voest? – This is inconceivable, it has never been among the reds, as you would say, which is such an unfavorable intervention. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Where did this lead in 2002? – In this way, it is not only directed into the company, but, above all, despite all the demands of depoliticization – Mr. Prinzhorn, you know now – the supervisory councils have always been politically motivated and exchanged. In 2002 Mr. Wolf came to the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG. Please, what for? It is clear that there is a clear conflict of interest. The Minister of Finance has intervened – this has not been demented – for these operations, which is incredible. That's what you call depoliticization, Mr President Prinzhorn? Does that match your idea? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What damage Upper Austria threatens has long been presented in the media. This kind of takeover has only one interest – that may be so in capitalism; I do not want to make great accusations here to Mr Stronach or Mr Wolf, because it is the failure of government policy behind it – to take out the automotive part. And this is therefore very problematic, I think, especially for Linz, because Linz and the voestalpine in this division have an advantage over MAGNA: They're technologically better, they're building better bodies. That is why it is indeed threatening for the Oberösterreich site, if you wish, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer. And on the other hand, you should do something if you constantly march around with such flags as you on the occasion of this current hour. But you prefer to hide the Minister of Finance from Parliament, so to speak, with the help of all kinds of tricks, so to speak, to keep him away. He was now ten days in Bali with Mr Christl, there was obviously still a small debt open, tomorrow and the day after he is in Berlin at ECOFIN or where, although he is very rarely going to ECOFIN; this does not fit in front and back. That's an election strategy you won't get far with. You should agree this week that the “small” investigation committee in Parliament can meet during the summer. Perhaps the Minister of Finance has time to come in between, then we can also discuss the problems of Upper Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Grossruck, I do not want to go over your speech in this way, because you have also brought figures on youth unemployment in Upper Austria. But as is the case in election campaigns: The closer the electoral day goes, the more precise you have to look at the statistics. It's exactly what happened throughout the country: In particular, in the area of youth unemployment, the statistics are partially covered by the fact that more and more training is being provided. I compare June 2001 and June 2003: There is a massive increase in the number of unemployed young people in training. I'm not saying it's bad, it's much better than they're on the street, as you'd say. But this is not a fight against youth unemployment that you want to spend here. Youth unemployment has risen in Upper Austria as well as elsewhere. Stop with the fairy tales, and join your Tyrolean and Carinthian friends, who is now a statemaster – they will soon have a campaign! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The contradictions are not enough. The Federal Minister...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5317	The final sentence, Mr Deputies!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5332	Mr President. In this case, I have to come back to you: If we are already so far that the Eurofighters are a central industrial policy project, then good night growth policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5360	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5378	In order to be able to negotiate item 6 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. This is the report of the Building Committee on the request of Mr Grossruck, Mr Bures, Mr Neudeck, Mr Gabriela Moser, colleagues on a federal law that amends the housing law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give the right of approval to the withdrawal from the time limit for such a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. There is also the required two-thirds majority. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5408	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5559	Deputies Grillitsch, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Scheuch, ladies and gentlemen, prior to the entry into the agenda, asked for the self-employed motion for a resolution tabled at the same time: Amendment No 175/A (E) of the motion for a resolution (Doc. Ordinary Grillitsch, Dipl.-Ing. Sheuch, colleagues, on the results of the European Union Agricultural Council in Luxembourg on 26 March. In June 2003, it was urgent to deal with it. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5585	I would also like to say that before entering the agenda, Mr Lichtenberger requested that the Transport Committee report on the request made by Dr. Lichtenberger, colleagues, concerning a federal law amending the road traffic regulations in 1960 and introducing a general ban on night-trafficking for trucks over 7.5 tonnes in Austria be introduced. ==References== In addition, the request made by five Members pursuant to Article 43 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on this request for deadlines. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5612	The debate on points 2 and 3, 8 and 9, 11 to 13, 14 to 18, 25 and 26 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We are therefore going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5637	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 157.5 minutes, Free 108 minutes and Green 117 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. 1. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (80 of the Supplements): Federal Law, which amends the Opening Act 2003 and amends the Commercial Code 1994, the Labour Peace Act and the Sunday and Holiday Operating Time Act (170 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5676	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak was Mr Magistrate. Hans Moser. I'd like to set the clock to 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5703	Mr President. Minister! High house! After we have already experienced such a “great” economic policy discussion today, where it has been found that Austria is in the absolute top line, I would like to bring the discussion back to the ground of reality, because since 2000, since there is a blue-black government, the development in Austria is heading towards a economic disaster. This can also be noted today if an opening law is presented here, in which numerous objectives are again packed: Strengthening the economic location, avoiding buy power outflows, creating jobs and so on. Now I would like to ask the question: What is the relationship between opening time law, economic growth and job creation? – Mr Bartenstein, you yourself – unfortunately, he is not present – cannot explain this context in a reply to a question.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5728	The Minister is behind you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5743	Excuse me, he showed up in the meantime. [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: I wasn't gone!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I didn't see you, you were somewhere back there. The Minister himself writes in the answer to the question: “The expected creation of additional full-time and part-time jobs as well as the expected increase in turnover cannot be estimated at any rate, as they depend on numerous uncertain factors (such as economic activity, actual opening hours, consumer behaviour).” – So there is no clear answer that would explain the impact relationship. There may well be a statement, however, if you look at a statistics given in another reply to the question, in relation to the development of jobs between 1996 and 1998. The number of part-time jobs increased by 25 000 or 26 percent after the first liberalisation and the number of full-time jobs decreased by 18 000 and 5 percent respectively. So it is quite clear that there is no link between these two areas! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, you are not given any approval for your policy, but also from your own circles. I would like to ask you: Voices Don't you take the procedure with your colleagues? There are two findings: The first one is an ÖAAB application in the framework of the Federal Labour Chamber Day on the 18th. June in Dornbirn, where you ask colleagues to distance themselves from this law. But much more interesting is a letter from Landeshuptmann Pühringer to the Catholic diocese of Linz, in which he writes: There is no national interest in extending shop opening times, quite the contrary, I understand myself as a protector of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are handed over to large corporations at totally liberalized shop opening times. Their quality of life is also broken. Especially interesting is the last sentence in which Land Captain Pühringer asks: I would be grateful if You may also be able to communicate this position to your readers. - Quote. One can see quite clearly: There is a clear resistance here from your side, Mr. Minister. Take note of this position accordingly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This opening law is a further frontal attack against the 600 000 trade workers directly and indirectly concerned. This law is also a frontal attack against Zig thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. If you implement this law, Minister, I ask you: What to do Are you actually opposed to the death of small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of trade? What to do You're against the threatened local care? What to do Are you opposed to the dramatic increase in concentration? We Socialists are the lawyers of social compensation and fair competition. The 2003 Opening Act contains nothing of both. That is why we will vote against this law. We will vote against this law because it is carried out on the back of 600,000 poorly paid workers. We will vote against this law because it will lead to a further deterioration of the local supply and the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. We will vote against this law because it is in stark contradiction with the confessions you have made in your coalition agreement on the compatibility of family and profession. Minister, make a policy for Austria's economic location! Place the sponsorship for the companies of Austria! Make your location policy, and take care of Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5802	Mr Mitterlehner. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speaking time: 7 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5820	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Moser, I believe that your field of view was not only restricted in connection with the Minister, but also in terms of the economic needs and impact of the opening times. Because what you have said is actually not a modern national economic attitude, but an attitude like 30 years ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was always like this: We have recently had x novelles on the trade order, on the opening of the shop, but hardly any other matter triggers such emotions, such discussions as this. Why? – Because certain activities, certain habits are changed. There are, of course, companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, which I have to admit, that we do not need any change. There are workers who say we don't need that. But there are also consumers who say that we need no change that the existing shop opening times are sufficient. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Leitel said that too!]] However, you should look at the degree of hardness of opinions, and the degree of hardness of opinions is a changeable one. If you asked people about Saturday afternoon opening a few years ago, about 1997, most of the consumers thought: We don't need that! The same with the entrepreneurs. However, if you are asking today: If you do that again?, you will receive a large majority for not being abolished. That means: In the form are settings, claim and reality two pairs of shoes. You can also see this when you're taking regioplan investigations – you probably know them; you just don't like them! It is very interesting what can be seen, which can be derived from changes in shop opening times already carried out. The companies have been asked: What do you find out? Increased sales? – 24 percent say yes. Increased customer frequency? – 29 percent yes. Shifting customer frequency: 94 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] There is, of course, also what you have mentioned, the increase in the part-time labour force rate and, on the other hand, only a significant increase in full-time jobs. Now I have to ask you, Mr Colleague: What is against the fact that there is more part-time work? – This is an improvement of the offer that benefits the workforce individually – nothing negative! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What we also do not support: We do not want a KAPOVAZ, the so-called capacity-oriented variable working time, where the entrepreneur calls and says: Come on. You're working! - We don't want that! But a correspondingly high number of part-time workers is actually a mark of a modern economy. We should actually meet this mark for a modern economy to a higher degree. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs Silhavy, if we are talking about a regulation at the shop opening time as if it were exclusively directed against the workers, I ask you: What are other countries doing in the European comparison? I admit that the big change in purchasing power will not occur. But you will have the problem if you do not do anything against the restrictive shop opening time, that you may lose purchasing power, and this situation we have at the borders to the enlargement countries before us, because they have opened the shops until 10 am in the evening, which have also opened on Sunday. This means that it is necessary in the sense of the location to respond accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] How does the legislator react? – He does not react as you always say: simply prescribe and so on, but he responds tailor-made. Tailored why? – The head of state can limit between 5 and 9 p.m. and 6 p.m., and he can also extend the period of 66 hours, involving workers and involving employers and representatives of interests. In other words, I think we have an instrument, a system of stocks. If some heads of state, who believe today, do not need it, there is no need for it, will speak differently in a year under the influence of the facts, he will talk differently in a year when he realizes that the pressure is also given by the enlargement states. He must also see that in other countries exactly these regulations have long existed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Total working time. You and others have said in committee: At 5 o'clock in the morning, the poor worker must already be on the holding and be there all the time. The appropriate transport facilities are not available, and the necessary kindergartens are not available. That's the situation now. Calculation You're on: If you keep open, you can reach a maximum of 93 hours in the frame. Some businesses open in the morning, open the breakfast shop, and some businesses will open up in the afternoon, as studies show. Therefore, there is the possibility that one can live up to the family situation. Ladies and gentlemen! Whatever we've done, and I think that's system-compliant: The national leaders can provide longer opening hours on the basis of a regulation, where it requires regional needs, such as at airports, railway stations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] It is even true that in some areas, such as bakery, confectionery, flower shops, one wants to keep open for more than 72 hours, i.e. 75 hours, because there is a need. You will also want to go as a visitor to a hospital that you can buy at least flowers there. On the other hand, if you want to employ employees on Saturday, there is the need for you to negotiate this with the collective contractual partners. In other words, there is protection for workers. Of course, it is also a matter of one thing: Of course, the opening hours of kindergartens and public transport have to be checked at some point. But you will never be able to realize that in Austria at once, because everyone says, no, we don't need that. That's why my thesis, our thesis, is: We have a very modern opening law, which is tailored to the conditions, to the circumstances of the respective federal states. This will allow us to solve problems forward-looking. You should not reject that, you should agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5905	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. If desired, the clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5923	Mr President. Minister! High house! The government has set itself various objectives for the opening law. Mr Moser has already mentioned this: Hardly anything of it is fulfilled by this law. First of all, I would like to refer to the comments made by Mr Mitterlehner, who spoke about the jobs. The bad thing about part-time jobs is not in principle that they exist, but the bad thing is that a job is divided into three people, and you know as well as I do that 70 percent of trade workers are women, and it is just typical that this bad situation is taking place in this area. They do not create jobs, but they divide jobs, which is extremely bad in times like this, in terms of pension insurance and purchasing power. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Bartenstein! They have called the opening law an essential factor in the growth strategy. So I can't see this anywhere, and the authors of all the studies I've seen so far can't see it. In fact, there is no increase in sales. Mr Mitterlehner has previously mentioned percentages of the RegioPlan study. But you also have to tell us what's inside here: Among the 24 percent who say they have a sales increase, there are still enough companies that have not recorded a reduction in sales, because there is a shift from the small to the large businesses. And second, even the large companies that have a sales increase, for example in the shopping centers, say that a large part of the profits will eventually be eaten up by the increased rents. That is to say, a factor in the sense of economic growth cannot at all be said at this shop opening. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point is the question which is desired by consumers at all; You've already mentioned it. According to studies, consumers do not wish for new opening hours. Even if you say that's not a fixed result, which varies depending on what I offer, it turns out that where there is a shift in sales, for example abroad, what you always claim is due to lower prices and no longer due to the longer opening hours. That is, centers such as Parndorf or probably in the future also Kleinhaugsdorf are an Eldorado for people who want to buy cheap branded goods, but they are certainly not about extending the opening hours, but about prices. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What was interesting to me was what Governor Liebscher said on Sunday in the “Open Saying ” program in relation to the opening hours. He said: It's a symbol. Unlike you, Minister, who tells you that this is a factor for economic growth, says Governor Liebscher, it is a symbol of liberalisation. So it is certainly not a factor for economic growth. And if it is a symbol, then I say that this symbol for something positive is well balanced by the reality of the negative effects in the area of trade workers, which may affect 300 000 or a maximum of 600 000 people. This does not matter to the Minister at all, obviously. Only it's not quite obvious, or you have to figure out what the objective of this opening law is. Who benefits from it? – It benefits from large farms. It is proven by each study that there are these shifts in sales from the little to the big ones, to the trading chains, and in some way the shopping centers also benefit. There is a further negative effect, namely the traffic produced by the fact that the local supply is further weakened and all are driven into the peripheral positions in which the shopping centers are located. In other words, you have a number of negative effects on transport as far as local services is concerned, economic weakening in the regions as far as trade workers are concerned, and the positive benefits are highly questionable if they are available at all. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If your goal is to meet the wishes of consumers who are supposed to benefit from it and want to do so, and to create a certain degree of liberalisation here, I say, first of all, that what happens in terms of negative effects needs to be clarified in the environment. In other words, it would have to be discussed first and foremost with the tradesmen, which would have to be opened up further. means. Measures should be taken to ensure child care, as 70 percent of female trade workers are generally responsible for child care. In other words, it must also be ensured that they have a care for their children, and it must also be ensured that they can get into work at all. It will therefore be necessary to extend the operation of public transport. And measures will need to be taken to provide local services, which will have to be done largely in cooperation with the countries and within the framework of spatial planning. But you didn't even stripe with one thought. Nowhere is there anything to be found: neither talks with trade workers, nor proposals for childcare, nor proposals for transport, nor proposals for local care. Nothing, absolutely nothing! Once again, what you want is to push through a law without you looking in advance at how the effects and the framework conditions are. This is your kind of policy: to create a law without proving with numbers to whom it should be useful. I would really like you to take the needs of the population and your own studies more seriously, in which all this, supported by numbers, can also be read. It has already been said that it is like research and development: They go to general places. I would like you to give a very concrete answer on all these points mentioned here in many discussions, and to give a very concrete answer based on figures and not just general places.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6007	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 6 minutes speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6026	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To the Opening Act. We know that Monday 5 am to Saturday 6 pm will be regulated in this law. Within this framework, the head of state may lay down opening times by means of a regulation. If he does not, that is, he does not adopt a regulation, it is considered to be the day frame, the day opening time from Monday to Friday from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. and Saturday from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen! The extent of the opening hours is basically not different from the current rules. The current scheme provides for 66 hours to extend it to 72 hours. This is now regulated by the new law. I think that one is created in particular, namely clarity. It is necessary to establish a system in this opening act which is consistent, namely the possibility of actually meeting the requirements and needs of the regions concerned. Dear ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said, exceptions have already been made. There were own rules for tourist destinations, for border regions, for local centres, and they were also used accordingly. Now it is possible to adapt to the needs that are actually needed, for example if you want to prevent a buy-in power drain in the border regions that are detectable. Similarly, this law provides for the head of state to: the scheme to limit the sales space to up to 80 square metres in railway stations, airports, and to establish an increase in the sales area by Regulation. So this law allows, as I mean, to adapt to the needs of travellers. After many times the situation of trade workers, who are mostly female, has already been addressed, I would like to say that it is not a question of extending the working time of trade workers, it remains unchanged, it also remains unchanged the opening time, the daily working time, the summation of working hours. In the case of non-ordering by the head of state, if the hours of Monday 5 am to Friday 9 pm and Saturday 6 pm were to be counted together, this amounted to an hour of 93. This does not correspond to the opening time, but, as has been said, only this framework. In connection with trade workers, I would also like to refer to a committee established which is precisely the problem of trade workers and the social and labour-related accompanying measures, and point out that appropriate arrangements are to be made here with the social partners. Dear ladies and gentlemen! A short while ago, on the trade regulations and on the problem of brokers and insurance agents. There is, as you know, an EU directive to be implemented by 2005. This EU Directive does not have on its content, as here in Austria, agents and agents, but the EU Directive is aware of insurance representatives in this context and differs in point 8 only between the contractually bound insurance representative and the contractually unbinding insurance representative, who is referred to in Austria as brokers or falls under this term. Here, above all, certain clarifications are needed in connection with the concept of certain clarifications. With regard to this new commercial regulation, I agree to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I expressly refer to that in § 137 para. In 1994 it was clearly stated that insurance agents have their role as insurance agents clearly in each document and that they also have to specify for which insurance companies they operate. We have concerns about this law and this EU directive, on the basis of various good practice opinions, that there may also be domestic discrimination. For this reason, § 137 para. 2 of the Trade Regulation provisionally deleted in order to clarify the implementation of this EU Directive. This, as I mean, will be done as soon as possible to ensure a clear positioning and a law-making process. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6101	The request by Mr Hofmann, Mr Hofmann, Mr Mitterlehner, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. Preferred speaking time: 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6122	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Mitterlehner accused our colleague Moser that he was 30 years back. I think this is very interesting when I read that Mr. Seitsobmann Lemler, who should be Dr. Mitterlehner's term, still meant in February, considers a change at the shop opening times not necessary. And if Mr Lemler has said that, he probably knows what he is talking about, because he knows very well that this regulation, which you are now deciding, is at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] There are very interesting APA reports, Dr. Mitterlehner! There's an APA report from February of this year: BauMax CEO Martin Essl confirmed on Wednesday the demand for an extension of the maximum weekly opening time from currently 66 to 72 hours. Essl recalled the opening time of his home markets during the week: 7.36 a.m., which is simply not understandable to customers. This is, however, a direct consequence of the current rules. Also that we can only be there with half a team for customers in the times that are attractive to customers – meaning Saturday – is an absurd situation, the bauMax chief said. On Sunday, Austria should continue to be closed. However, this attitude does not mean that Essl does not want to know about Slovakia, Hungary and the Czech Republic, where it is possible to lock up on Sunday today. Ladies and gentlemen! They disagree. If you are constantly talking about the outflow of purchasing power due to other opening hours, I ask you: Then why keep closed on Sunday? – Now I am someone who says that on Sunday the family life must be preserved. This should also apply on Saturday to the families of trade workers. But you argue in this respect in a direction that is absolutely contradictory. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] That is, you are taking the first step on Saturday, and we can already stop when the Sunday is being attacked by you, ladies and gentlemen! Now I do not know whether you, Minister Bartenstein, also want to have a percentage of ministers at the company bauMax, but you have clearly provided intermediate services with this government template. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Mrs. Silhavy! It's such a simple argument!]] - Yes, I can't help it! I didn't ask for the percentage. That was the Minister. At Humanic, he put pressure on a salesman who even had to call Graz. It's a scandal. You should be ashamed of that and not call in because I'm showing this up here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Were you there?]] Mr Essl can now lock up from 5 a.m. in the future, which will be much more logical for the customers. [[Abg. Ridiculous: Shameful!]] And he can also lock up women for the benefit of his customers every Saturday with full team and, I assume, also every Saturday when he announces the collective agreement. Mr Hofmann, it is a smooth untruth when you say that there is no change in working time for the salesmen. Of course it's about it! They amend the Labour Peace Act, not only for salesmen, but also for businesses which have a trade-like character. That's what the government paper says. I suppose you have read what you want to decide here. I also find this very interesting: It is about meeting Mr Essl in advance and in the future so that he can ride every Saturday with the full team as he calls it. This Mr Essl has blamed himself on the bauMax, and I do not hear anything from you at all. ==References====External links== June is to be read: After the labour problems in the three giant markets had increased, the employees decided to hold business council elections for the first time. The management of the company has therefore tried to put the employees under massive pressure in individual discussions and to find out the initiators with expressions such as “if I find out who that is who is flying”. Yesterday, a lawyer and a notary appeared suddenly in the three markets and had carried out anonymous votes “For or against Works Council”. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What does this have to do with the shop opening times?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This has nothing to do with shop opening times, it has to do with the right hand of the merchants! A democratic right is seriously affected, and no word can be heard from the Minister responsible. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Why? No one did that!]] There is absolutely nothing to be heard from you about the need to safeguard the democratic rights of employees in Austrian businesses. This is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As we are concerned with the rights of employees, the last thing we do is to ensure that we can achieve this added value at all, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you really want to get added value and inflow of purchasing power by means of liberalisation, while at the same time protecting trade and trade-like workers, you agree to our motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6300	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Silhavy by Mr Heidrun Silhavy, Mr Vergestnich and Mr Colleagues on labour law and other accompanying measures has been presented in full, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Steibl, who I wish to put the clock in just 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6325	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to my previous speaker, I would now like to refer to the actual content of this item on the agenda, namely the subject of loading hours. This issue is moving... – I just want to know what noise protection has to do with this motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Silhavy: You also change the labour rest law with this template!]] Someone has to explain this to us in the course of this discussion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Look at the budget accompanying law!]] Mr Silhavy, I would like to teach you history so that you know that this is not a one-day invention of us. We started in 1910, then there was for the first time a legal regulation of the shop opening times from 5 am to 8 pm. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] In 1958 the current shop closure law was introduced, in 1991 it was modernised, in 1997 it was re-innovated. [[Abg. Silhavy: That was worse than 1910!]] What did you find out? – Nothing but a polemic discussion on the part of the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen! A view over the borders shows us that opening hours in Austria are extremely restrictive compared to other countries. For example, there are no restrictions at all in France, Sweden, Ireland, the Czech Republic and Hungary. That is, since it is not a question of the flow of purchasing power, it would be incorrect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] In Great Britain, Denmark, Portugal, there are only restrictions on Sunday, and in Italy, Liechtenstein, Finland, the Netherlands and Slovenia, to name just a few, shop opening times are much more liberal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer]] - Just no excitement, I know what I'm talking about. Traders should be protected in their area. But who speaks of the nurses, who speaks of the gendarmerie officials, who speaks of the schnitzel you all want to eat on Sunday? – I would like to know quite clearly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: This is cynicism!]] - No, that's not cynicism. There are not only mothers who are trade workers, there are also mothers who work in another profession. We politicians have the task of creating framework conditions so that everyone, mothers and fathers, has the opportunity to reconcile work and family. And that also means going shopping at another time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Did you ever want to represent the women?]] This liberalisation has not only paid attention to trade but also entered the banking sector. I admit that it is better for me to go to a bank once during my free time than if the bank has only opened morning from 8 am to 12 pm, as is so often the case. [[New call of the abg. May. Worm.]] I would like to make it quite clear once again that the Sunday rest is not being attacked, that we have even retained it in the government programme. [[Abg. Silhavy: You have held a lot in the government program...!]] We also have the possibility of being part-time until the 7th century in the government programme on the compatibility of work and family. The year of life of the child, which will be implemented by our Federal Minister in autumn. I think we also need creativity on the part of the works councils and, of course, on the part of entrepreneurs. This also shows family-friendly businesses. For example, part-time does not mean working from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. every day, but part-time may also be called working through two days and having three days off. Part-time is desired by many. And if you say that minor employment is just an emergency measure for many women because they don't get another job, then I have to tell you that's not true, because many single earners also don't want to lose their single earnings. [[Abg. May. Worm: A high pension at 40 years of calculation period! Put the women in the poverty trap!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this innovation does not go towards poverty traps, but offers the opportunity to work part-time at different levels and in different positions or to work fully, that there is a flexibilization that allows all to do what they want themselves to do. Our local people know what they want.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6489	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler, I'd like to change the clock to 7 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6507	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Let us, Mrs Steibl, draw the Committee's opinion by a majority. It states that the Economic and Social Committee assumes that the corresponding labour consequences and other accompanying measures for employees and the like will be negotiated between the social partners. That's what you're going to expect. That is, as sure as you would like to do to the House now, you are not your business, for otherwise you would not have to decide on such committee statements which, moreover, are also problematic in the form of other reasons. But now is not the right time. I am just telling you that the problem is that not all goals can be achieved at the same time without damage to another person. That is the very essence of why there is a need for political regulations at all. Your group, and the Federal Minister in particular, want to recognize deregulation as a value per se, but we will still be talking about it. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka speaks to Abg. Steibl.]] Mr Lopatka, we understand at least occasionally, do you have to stop Mrs Steibl from listening? Mrs Steibl, if we have these target conflicts, it is not that the Committee makes any observations, I would rather look at the legislative work as a whole. The annoyance is that with the same act of law, which amends several laws, other provisions are also tangled, in which a step is taken back in the truest sense of the word, such as in the absence of the black and white rule. And that's the problem in the overall context. It's given up here, and it's taken away there and there. I or my group would have been quite prepared to think about and negotiate what this could look like in the course of a goal achievement. The potential increase in consumer benefits is undisputed, but it only increases potentially. There is a need to get back to the polls, which one then insists that the need is not so great. But at least it would be an additional benefit. What's happening? – It is not true that labour-law improvements could be negotiated especially for female trade workers. That's not the case, and that's the problem. I told you this already on the occasion of a symposium almost two years ago when you invited you to your house: If the government wants to act crediblely and claims that there is additional economic benefit, that growth may be boosted and that the income of the population as a whole increases, then we need to see how this benefit is distributed accordingly. They have not declared themselves prepared to work towards a better distribution of this supposed or actual benefit to all. No, it is liberalised, the labour law regulations are being worsened, and that is simply not a good way of doing things. And then you still regret that the union is supposed to be so inflexible. I do not want to take a closer look at it in the social partners' negotiations, but if you now refer us to the social partners in your committee and make legal provisions uno actu worse, then I must say that this committee is not worth the paper it is written on. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I can't fuck it up: At some point we will experience that committee statements are about like this: The government is supposed to do that it doesn't rain so much, because people don't want to get wet. [[Abg. Silhavy: This is a good comparison!]] In my opinion, we will not have much of this committee statement, but you have done so. And with your more or less euphoric speeches, you will not be able to disappear. But in the matter itself, these processes of deregulation, both in general and at the same time, are still other areas, i.e. not only the question of labour law and the possibilities of employees in trade. It is also a matter of providing close-up services. For example, it is about increasing traffic problems especially in agglomerations. I'll give you the right, you'll say it again: All of this is not to be regulated with the shop opening and the relevant regulation. Yes, absolutely right, but if everything is galoping in the wrong direction all around, then some barrier is still helpful, so that it doesn't happen any worse. This is a defensive access, I admit, but if you look at politics as a whole, you unfortunately have to diagnose that there is a constant set of measures – more or less intentional or random – that we do not consider to be in this direction. Where is the problem of traffic? – No one can escape that we have a wild growth of shopping malls, so I would almost say at the edges of agglomerations. This problem is not to be dealt with alone on the question of shop opening times, but with these provisions these tendencies will be reinforced, if nothing else happens. You're not saying anything about that. On the occasion of the government negotiations, there have been as sensible thoughts as that one could intervene on transport charges or similar matters. There has been no mention of this since then. And that's the problem. They produce pressure in one place and are not ready to take the appropriate counter-control measures elsewhere. But that fits the picture. Deregulation is a value per se, you once said, Federal Minister! This is an ideological access that you are unaware of, but if the practical effects of your policy are those that we can observe here, then I must say that I consider it to be indeed problematic. I have to reply to the fact that you have been holding the debate recently or also in the committee in general: Deregulation is not a value per se. It is precisely a market economy order that needs to be regulated where competition alone leads to monopoly, concentration trends and other problems. You know that very well. But in the daily debate, when it comes to occupying certain vocabulary, do not hesitate to go in this direction. I think this is very problematic, because even a glowing market economy player can expect him to recognise these laws. You do, too, because I am absolutely sure, but then you should at least pursue such a policy somewhere. A market economy also needs regulation where the market alone leads to things that one does not want in society. This trend of concentration in trade with traffic problems cannot be expected to be in the form of such. They are constantly externalising the costs – I can then easily talk about the market economy and the private sector – which the public has to bear to an ever greater extent, especially with this type of concentration policy. But I'm right if you say that this is possibly just peripheral with shop opening times. But you also drive in the wrong direction at every corner, and that's the problem you're producing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6561	Mrs Rossmann is now speaking for 4 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6579	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I think it has not yet been considered in this area – perhaps you do not want to recognise it either – that society and the working world are in a rapid change. We must respond to this change. We have a high employment rate and new working time models. The workers with these new models of working time are also entitled to a different purchasing behaviour. We also have another, a new leisure behavior. We must respond, and this requires individual solutions on the basis of diversity. And I'm saying: We liberties have not made it easy for us to solve these Gordic nodes of shop opening times, simply in the form that we are now just adopting a framework – a framework legislation that is then finally transposed into the responsibility of the countries. The national leaders are sure to respond in such a way as to meet the needs of workers in trade, for example in terms of employment opportunities. That is why we have established this committee. Mr Kogler said that it was not worth much. Of course, it will be the task of national leaders to also move the social partners to ensure that there are appropriate framework conditions for employees in trade. I'm sure this will happen. I'm also sure you'll have to talk about supplements on Saturday. I'm still sure you'll have to talk about supplements after 18, 19 o'clock. This is the case of the social partners. [[Abg. Oils: There's nothing in there!]] If it is criticized that Saturday work is now possible every Saturday, I ask the other way round: How many women workers – especially women, young women – work exclusively on Saturday? They have only an auxiliary activity on Saturday, and they have complained that they are allowed to work only every second Saturday. They want to work every Saturday because they work exclusively on Saturday. How many young women are taking advantage of this opportunity? – It will also be the responsibility of national leaders to focus on the need for appropriate implementation within this framework. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The non-natility of the Sunday rest has always been a great concern for us; that is guaranteed. [[Abg. May. Worm: This is a joke! ...! You know that!]] I also say that at the opening hours of both the Holy evening and the New Year's Eve – this was also a great concern for us – it is precisely because the women in the Holy evening and the New Year's Eve are all the more demanded in the household. That is why we have not made any changes here. [[Abg. May. Worm: Sure, no changes, deterioration!]] – No deterioration! [[Abg. May. Worm: Of course!]] As you now criticize everything you can, Ladies and gentlemen just say: Look First, get to your head of state in your respective federal state, how he will implement it! What framework conditions are created? How will the social partners negotiate in your federal state? – Then we can continue to discuss, but then we will discuss on the basis of realistic circumstances and not on fiction, talking about problems and anxiety. That's what you've been doing.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6681	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6699	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rossmann, you do not have much idea of the colleagues who work in the trade – I can really put that to the point – because otherwise you could not make such a contribution to the debate at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the bill is adopted as it stands, it means that the living conditions of more than 300 000 Austrians who are engaged in trade and whose families will be seriously changed. In addition, the life situation of more than 300 000 employees in commercial services will change seriously. This includes employees in banks, hairdressers and so on. Mrs Steibl! – Although she is not in the hall now, I can nevertheless tell her clearly: This has nothing to do with polemics, but that is the only concern for workers in these areas. We are responsible for these, and there will be extreme difficulties there. Let me also make a few comments on part-time work. Mr Mitterlehner said that part-time work was desirable. That is true in part, but it is important to note that in trade there are often no full-time jobs at all. And that starts the big problem: If women no longer have the opportunity to take up full-time employment in these areas and have to work part-time, then – and you know that very well – the difficulties in part-time employment go up to retirement. You have to say that very hard. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Mandak.]] More than 43 percent of women are already working on Saturday on a regular basis, and now you are worsening the situation of workers. - That's about the facts. That we are not alone on the road, but that others have also recognized that the situation of trade workers will be extremely changed by this proposal for a law, I can tell you the following: On the occasion of the Annual General Meeting of the Federal Chamber of Labour on 18 November. In June of this year, ÖAAB submitted an application, which was entitled ‘No Further Liberalization of Opening Hours’. And since the representatives of the ÖAAB have recognized sharp and excellently that an extension of the opening hours due to the experience we have done will not lead to an increase in sales, but only to a shift. In addition, the structures of small and small enterprises are also damaged – for the benefit of the large trading chains. In addition, this request from the ÖAAB also states that increasing costs are associated with this and that, due to the conditions of competition, price reductions in retail trade are necessary and these price reductions are again at cost. the conditions of employment and pay. That means that there is also deterioration here. The ÖAAB also concludes that, as a result of a reduction in the attractiveness of this profession, the quality of this sector will increasingly suffer, in this sector and will therefore be opposed to further liberalisation of opening hours. This was a request from the ÖAAB, which was unanimously adopted, i.e. also with the votes of the workers of the Freedom Party. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Vergestnich and Mr Silhavy.]] I am already very excited about how, for example, Mr Tancsits will vote, who is not exactly an insignificant function in the ÖAAB, or will also vote as colleague Marek, who is also a member of the General Assembly of the Chamber of Workers. But we've already had negative experiences in recent times. Since I am a person who is always optimistic, I think that perhaps some employee representative of the black and the blue groups will think again. Hope always exists! I invite you to vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6778	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6797	Mr President. Mr Gorbach! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I understood the arguments of the opposition, the world stopped at the borders of Austria. [[Abg. May. Worm: But?]] However, what I completely miss in your argument is your ignorance of what is happening around us...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6823	Please, I would suggest that the government bank from the Members of the House is not accused of "ignorance".
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6856	Mr President. Of course, I would like to take this back and say the German translation: the non-knowing name of what is happening beyond our borders. This, according to my Latin knowledge, is the verbatim translation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – But it was far from my wish to use some emotionalizing expression here, Mr President, you know me. But still: Let's look over the borders! Sweden has not been quoted by Mrs Steibl because it is so close, but because Sweden is ultimately regarded as a very social and also a socially democratic country. It doesn't have shop opening times. [[Abg. May. Worm: Watch the childcare facilities in Sweden!]] Czech Republic, Hungary, our immediate neighbours – take note of this, Mrs Colleague! –, have no shop opening times, there are no regulations there. As I was criticized to have described Germany as one of the growth brakes that exist in Austria: In Germany, Mr Schröder, your party friend, finally called liberalisation by two hours, on Saturday from 18 a.m. to 8 p.m., a room for one of these big growth brakes. In fact, we in Austria allow this arrangement to buy by 9 p.m., even the possibility to vary 15 hours longer if I add the opening at 5 p.m. in the morning. I also went up in the end Their arguments are more understandable, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if there were at present something in Austria where the middle class would be particularly strong, the concentration would be lower in trade other than in other countries and part-time would play a small role in trade, because the majority of the people who had a large number of women there would have full-time employment. If restrictive shop opening times would have something to do with this, then my logic – it's not your logic – would have to result in this red lantern, which Austria clearly has in terms of shop opening. But you know that the opposite is the case: There's a lot of part-time work. The most recent statistics available to me on trade also show 141 000 part-time jobs compared with 72,000 full-time jobs – and the development of the last seven years has been that the number of full-time workers has fallen by 20 000, the number of part-time workers has increased by almost 50 000. There is a unique concentration in Austria in the field of food trade, as well as in the furniture trade and so on. The correlation that you place in the room, namely that restrictive shop opening times help the middle class and prevent concentration, can not be true, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Apart from that, this discussion is in reality also taking place against the background of real decline in trade turnover. [[Abg. Oillinger: But why? – Because of the discounts!]] [[Abg. Sburny: Because people don't have money, and you take away more!]] In any case, this has led to a rethinking on the part of the employers in Germany and also here in Austria, because that is exactly what we understand, Mr Oellinger, ultimately under a supply-side economy: We offer that the entrepreneurs of Austria may remain open until 9 p.m. We offer consumers that they can shop by 9 p.m. But you don't have to do it. [[Abg. Sburny: You can't do it either because they no longer have purchasing power!]] In this way, your arguments, ladies and gentlemen Csörgits, go into the void that hundreds of thousands of people would now change the circumstances of life. They obviously assume that trade and the services close to trade will remain open to 100 per cent until 9 p.m. and also on Saturday. You know as well as I do that the frame of 66 hours a week, which is very medium-sized and which I have deliberately incorporated into the government template, allows flexibility, but not an opening from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. on Mondays to Fridays and from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays. We do not want that at all, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On Sunday, everything stays with the old man. That was quite clear for us from the very beginning, although there were also voices that wanted others. It is important to say that buy power drain does not necessarily have to be something that is already happening today – apart from seeing such elements already. Let's not forget the 1st. May of next year, from which not only the borders are open, but also many Austrians can buy goods almost completely beyond the border de facto without customs duties and without any other restrictions. Once it is so far that purchasing power flows, it is very difficult to recover this purchasing power and bring it back to Austria. I prefer to build on that, because I am not the last of all countries to liberalize it, but I do what we are now making careful and meaningful: I'll make it possible to go shopping until 9 p.m. Speaking of national leaders: Of course, it will come to the heads of state. The Lower Austrian head of state Pröll and his councillor Gabmann have already said that they want to leave it in this federal framework. From Vorarlberg I hear that, with the agreement of the social partners, a long shopping day until 9 p.m. per week was agreed by Swiss example. I assume that this will keep one federal country that way after another – apart from the fact that if one wants to, one could even limit the longer shop opening times to street trains or to city districts. One does not have to make this uniform throughout the country, it is quite possible to differentiate across the country. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Why do top trade unionists like you, Mrs Csörgits, Mrs Silhavy, appreciate the collective agreement so low that you advocate typical regulations, which should be incorporated into a collective agreement, even though they are already included in the collective agreement of trade workers today, namely the black and white regulations, you have to explain this to your members first. If you want to have everything in the law anyway, what do you need collective contracts? – This is a regulation that, if it is, is part of a collective agreement, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The social partners are cordially invited by Parliament, the committee responsible, to discuss the new conditions. Many collective agreements do not provide for any opening time until 9 p.m. You have to take this into account, you have to do it. I am also pleased that we have removed some absurdity of the old law in terms of gas stations, which may be sold there – and not that, it does not control anyone – that we have also made it clear regarding the sale of goods in railway stations that the blocking of articles there will have an end – see 80 m2 of sales space. The Heads of State may extend the scheme if they consider it appropriate. So it is a liberalisation, as we like to see it in Austria: She's a mammoth man. It comes from my point of view a little later than it would have been useful – but it comes. This is a liberalisation that takes into account the needs of the people and takes into account Austrian habits and ultimately emotions – on Sunday everything stays with the old, Sunday is taboo” – a liberalisation which, at the same time, frees our economy and our trade from a growth brake that we certainly cannot need in these months and years.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6968	The next speaker is Mr Schweisgut. The watch is gladly set to 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6987	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear listeners at the gallery! Let me briefly address some of my previous speakers' arguments. The Minister has already mentioned a lot, but if Mrs Csörgits says that the Social Democrats are concerned about workers, then, I believe, they should also see the concern about jobs as an argument. Especially the threat of the flow of purchasing power is certainly with one of the decisive conditions for why we are discussing this bill here now, why we are not only making a change in the opening hours, but also reasonably doing a merger of three different laws into a bill and why it is actually a step in the right direction. Although I believe that it was possible in many areas before, to take steps and make the shop opening times so flexible that they are in the interests of customers, this law is the real prerequisite. The fact that we are discussing a very important matter here is also seen in the fact that the “Press” today, for example, devotes pages 2 and 3 to this law, where many other laws are also pending for decision-making. It is seen that the customer, the consumer, is also the one who deals with this law. But when you see that the law is still considered as not enough, not far enough – precisely because of the competition of the next few years – then you can also see that we are a tourist country – I am now coming to speak on this subject as a tourist speaker – still need a very high follow-up. This applies in particular to Vienna, where the problem lies very strongly in the fact that customers are actually left in front of blocked shop doors. This is how the press today sees it in their headline: ‘Tourists are in front of a closed shop door’. I believe that if we want to preserve urban tourism and Vienna as a tourist centre, we also need to address the needs of our customers. [[Abg. Oillinger: Open the shops on Sunday?- Oh, my God!]] Of course, culture is primarily a reason for travel, but culture alone will certainly not be enough on weekends in tourist centres. This also includes the shopping experience for the customers. The customer is our guest. If you see that the guests on average spend about €70 per day on trade, then you will see what potential would still be available. If you want to strip the statistics here again, you can see where a tourist customer, who is of course also very important for trade, is going to shop: He goes shopping in Vienna to almost 70 percent in the center of the city, he goes to 25 percent on Mariahilfer Straße and to under 10 percent shopping centers. The opportunity to adapt the shop opening times to tourist concerns is still possible in this law. The heads of state would have the chance to do so. In Tyrol it works wonderfully. As a negative example, we had the 8. December, on which a huge outlet of purchasing power has taken place in the surrounding countries. ==References== In December, it became a very important day for the sales of the trading companies. Similar things should also be remembered in Vienna. This does not mean that all of Vienna's trading companies must remain open, but especially in the city centre and the Mariahilfer Strasse there is certainly an urgent need to secure jobs and to create more jobs there in the future. In Vienna the shop opening times should also be considered by the head of state or mayor. There are examples in Austria that work. I believe that this law is good insofar as, while we are still not top riders at the shop opening times, we actually have the narrowest opening times in Europe, but it goes in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7029	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7048	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweisgut's speech is actually remarkable: It was a speech, not for this law, but for the next. Keywords: Sunday opening. I emphasize: Sunday opening from sides of the ÖVP! All ÖVP mayors in recent years – together with other mayors; I admit – have signed the demand: Hands away from the work-free Sunday, but now the honourable Member is coming to Schweisgut and saying: No, no, even on Sunday the people who have tourists want a shopping opportunity! – The tourists are always the ones who have to stand for it if anyone in this high house or outside already gets the next desire again. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] Today, we are adopting a law on the further so-called major liberalisation of shop opening times, but at the same time, ÖVP MEPs are producing themselves and saying: This is not enough, but rest is only when Sunday is open! [[Abg. Weld: You didn't listen! That's a twist of my statement!]] Let us hold this, Mr Schweisgut: It is obviously the intention or attitude of the ÖVP not to comply with its own decisions which many mayors, many municipalities, have taken in recent years, especially with the approval of the ÖVP. That's how it looks! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] That's what I came up with on the real subject. Mr Schweisgut, you can be of different opinion on the opening of the shop. Of course, I also know the different ideas and desires, and we also discuss them. That at 4 o'clock in the morning someone would like to choose a book in a bookstore in peace, and that someone would like to flatter in it, there is. There is also the need to choose the furniture for the apartment or for the rental apartment on Sunday – and only on Sunday, because there is too little time for it during the week. This is particularly true of trade workers, who will have to work in the future until Saturday. So if they are to have the opportunity to buy, then you have to use the argument that this is to the benefit of trade workers who have the Sunday opening, because otherwise they hardly have the opportunity to buy. That's not how we're going! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Of course, there are the most diverse needs, but what I notice in this debate, as far as I have been following them so far, is the fact that it reflects in a word identical way what we discussed in 1997 during the last liberalisation of shop opening times here in the House. At that time, the representatives of the government parties – and there was another political constellation at the time; Mr Dolinschek, I will come back to it – here I stood and expressed the opinion – the SPÖ rather with the concern for the trade workers – that it is a major liberalisation. At that time it was called: We're just doing it in measure! The second argument at that time is that this major liberalisation in trade will lead to an increase in income and employment among trade workers and overall trade turnover will increase. But now we heard from the Minister of Economic Affairs that sales were going back in trade. Mr Federal Minister, I ask you: What's going on? Your promises of liberalisation do not work! But I can tell you exactly why they don't work. If wages and income increases remain as they have been in recent years, if the federal government still saves by certain measures, such as tax increases, tax increases, social benefits reductions, citizens' savings, then they will no longer have money to buy, but less. That's how it looks, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There you can keep the shops open around the clock, so people will no longer be able to shop. That is why I say to you: If you are already making the international comparison and are constantly approaching us, we should look around in Sweden, we should look around in Germany, then I can give you the advice: Please note, for example, in the case of Sweden, the different conditions with regard to child care periods! As early as 1997, it was said that, with regard to the situation for trade workers, it will of course also be necessary to ensure that childcare opportunities are improved. Even then, we asked for that. But nothing has been done in this respect. I can only say one thing to the FPÖ address: Mr Dolinschek, Mr Walch, the great workers' representatives from the liberals. Mr Blünegger said at the time that it would not be possible to give his approval by the FPÖ, because the worker – obviously only the men have come to his attention – does not receive any corresponding guarantees regarding working time. A committee statement, which says nothing, is the free response six years later. I have to say: A sad chapter!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7134	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7153	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, we are not changing the working time law here today, but the loading time law. The opening times are liberalised by the 2003 Opening Act. Now, in a single law, in principle, all provisions on open time in retail are concentrated. It is a kann-destination and no must-destination, because it only requires that on Saturdays after 6 p.m., on Sundays, on holidays and on Mondays until 5 p.m. the shops should be kept closed, unless a decree by the head of state in a federal country provides otherwise. There are also exceptions, as they already exist, for example, but they have been somewhat liberalized and extended, for example for the gas industry, for gas stations, but also for sales points of certain kinds, such as at railway stations, at airports and so on. Mr Oellinger, to take along a travel provider or travel reminder for the family, that is also in your interest. This is now being dealt with differently. The head of state can now, by regulation – he does not have to, but he can do it – determine the opening of the opening from Monday to Saturday between 5 a.m. and 6 p.m., while the total opening time of 66 hours must not be exceeded unless he determines an extension to 72 hours to meet the shopping needs of the population or tourists. This is a flexible system that takes particular account of regional and tourist needs. The rigid provisions concerning the Labour Peace Act, according to which an employee who has been employed on Saturday after 1 p.m. should no longer be employed on the following Saturday, are now to be deleted. [[Abg. Ollinger: Well, that's not true!]] There have already been exceptions in this case. I only remember the pre-Christmas season, how the tradesmen are doing. On this particular point, the social partners are in demand, namely the collective contractual partners who are able to draw up and bring in specific provisions. [[Abg. Oillingers: The liberals have already resigned!]] I can only say one thing, Mr Oellinger, to the criticism that small and medium-sized enterprises will be under the competitive pressure of the trade chains: You have to look for niches. [[Abg. Ollinger: But that's pretty cynical!]] This expansion will allow for a more flexible design, and this will give you an additional opportunity. On the claim that workers' rights in trade are now to be deteriorated, as Mrs Csörgits and you, Mr Oellinger, have put it, and on the claim that the Federal Government is only concerned with the fact that the economy is on cheap labour, I would like to say one thing: Wages do not negotiate the Federal Government, but the union with the collective contractual partners! [[Abg. Oils: You wash your hands in innocence!]] There is a need for action! That is why I call on you, Mrs Csörgits, to ensure that wage negotiations are conducted in such a way that trade workers are finally able to look out again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Trade workers belong to the group of the most badly earned Austrians. By higher wages, the purchasing power would be strengthened, and one would have a little more in the wallets. To make sure that's your job! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Yes, that's what it looks like! Right! Bravo!]] [[New call of the abg. May. Worm.]] We from FPÖ are the guarantee that Sunday will remain work-free! That's what we've done here too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This law is an opening law and not a law on working time, not a labour rest law. This matter is governed by the law on working time and the law on working time, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Worm: What?]] This opening act, Mrs Wurm, is a reasonable one. [[Abg. May. Worm: Where are the childcare places? Far and wide nothing!]] In the course of weekly working hours, nothing changes at all. The Sunday rest is maintained. Just keeping open is now being made more flexible and directed towards the European standard. Above all, it is a tourism-friendly and consumer-friendly scheme. However, I hope that the union will work hard to negotiate decent wages during wage negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7314	Mrs Stadlbauer is speaking. The clock is set to 3 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7332	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Dolinschek and Mr Bartenstein, the biggest accusation you have to make in connection with the opening law, are the fact that you are using this amendment of the opening law to eliminate workers' and workers' rights. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Dolinschek, who is a worker's representative, you should be really ashamed of that. That Mr Bartenstein is in favour of this, I can understand from his background, but that you, as employee representative, are producing and argumenting here, is really the last one, Mr Dolinschek, Mr Dolinschek! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: This is a can-destination, not a must-destination!]] It is already in the draft law under the title “problem” – I quote – that: “The current regime for trade workers, which is supposed to be unemployed on Saturday afternoon every second Saturday, is far too rigid.” One of the objectives of this law is, among other things, “to create flexible employment opportunities for trade workers on Saturday afternoon”. - That's literally what it's in the law. We are very well aware of the direction in which this goes. Mr Bartenstein said in committee that the opening law is not valid for workers' rights. I now ask you, Minister Bartenstein: Why Create Do you take off the good, excellent Saturday-free arrangement? Why Lead You re-enter the six-day week in trade? Why Create You're not an adequate law of protection for workers to break the whole thing down? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This opening law is also a law that reduces workers' rights. This will be evident in the empowerment of the Heads of State or Government. In fact, the national leaders can allow Sunday work, holiday work and night work to be done on regional needs. We'll see how they'll do it. However, they hide behind this empowerment. In reality, you want to introduce Sunday work. It has also said to Mr Mitterlehner of the ÖVP in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that we are moving towards Sunday work. There will be liberalisation after liberalisation, and sometime you will have achieved your goal. But tell people what you really want! The second aspect I would like to address is the fact that the majority of employees are female in trade. In addition to the lack of safety, the long journeys, the lack of childcare facilities and the fact that women and men now have to work longer, but less deserve, women in particular are a very important aspect of the reconciliation of work and family life. This aspect has been left to the left. But I do not even blame Mr Bartenstein on that, because that is not really his concern. There is a representative in the government whose concern must be that of the Minister for Women. Now I would like to tell you how seriously the Minister of Women is taking this issue. I asked her if she had looked at the gender impact of changing the opening hours, and she answered only the following: "At present, there are no suitable instruments in my department for reviewing the liberalisation of opening hours for their gender-specific effects, which are at the stage of the preparation. It is therefore not possible for me to carry out an appropriate examination at the moment.” – Quotative. [[Abg. Silhavy: This is immense!]] We can therefore say, ladies and gentlemen: This law reduces workers' rights, does not address the needs of those concerned and is deeply hostile to women. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7406	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. Speech time: 4 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7425	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition have truly managed to create a kind of world downfall in this shop opening-time discussion. This certainly does not help retailers to make better sales. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! We should look forward to seeing how we can help dealers. We must allow a modern and demand-oriented opening of shops. The re-regulation of shop opening times will give a positive boost to consumption, especially the inner cities will be revived by this. Austria is one of Europe's most popular destinations, and the many tourists will be very grateful for our reform projects. The regulation of shop opening times in Austria has been more restrictive in the past. In France, Sweden, Ireland, the Czech Republic and Hungary there are no restrictions on opening hours. In the UK, Portugal and Denmark, such provisions exist only with regard to Sundays. There are, at least, considerably more liberal provisions in the other EU countries. The reorganisation of shop opening times in Austria is therefore another important way to reach the EU standard. The purpose of the reform of shop opening times is to strengthen Austria's economic location, create new jobs, match consumers' interests according to shopping opportunities, prevent the flow of purchasing power abroad, and increase Austria's attractiveness as a tourist country. Retail sales have been below general growth rates for years. The buyer behaviour has changed. More money flows in areas such as education and health. Retail trade only has the opportunity to stop or reverse this downward trend if it is more oriented to the needs of consumers. Customer orientation is the absolute maxim in the world economy, and this maxim will not be able to close Austria in the long run. The consumer simply wants more flexibility at shop opening times. If the Heads of State consider it appropriate, they may, after consulting the social partners, extend the opening up to 72 hours. Such regulations may also be adopted regionally differentiated for certain regions or municipalities. If the heads of state do not issue a regulation, the shops may be kept open from Monday to Friday from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. and from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays. to 6 p.m. The new opening law brings a new quality of flexibility and competitiveness, but at the same time preserves to a great extent the interests of employees and those of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7473	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7491	Mr President. High house! Mr Mitterlehner, you said at the current hour that you would like to have a good mood in the economy. I wonder, Who do you want to provide for this good mood? . On the basis of representative studies, we know that 77 percent of companies are satisfied with the current scheme, and we also know that 87 percent of consumers are satisfied. So, Minister Bartenstein, for whom is your famous supply-side economy if 87 percent are quite satisfied with the current situation? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Is it possible that you want to create a good mood for the employees in the economy? – Then I wonder: Who asked this, who knows what impact the expansion of shop opening times will have on employees in trade? One of my previous speakers has already mentioned it – something that has not happened, but which the government has explained in its government programme –: This legal measure has also not been examined in terms of its impact on women and men, and the famous gender aspect has not been taken into account again. I don't wonder about it. They are shy because it is quite clear that women will be there as losers in expanding shop opening times. You're afraid of that, so you're doing something completely absurd: first, you decide a law and then you're going to check the consequences. – A completely confused behavior. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can tell you what the consequences will be. This will, of course, have an impact on the benefits of women, this will also have an impact on childcare, it will have an impact on the rise of women, and it will, of course, have a special impact on the pension. They themselves deny something you decided only a few weeks ago – unfortunately – that is the new pension model, which means that exactly those women will get out very badly, that very low employment conditions are involved. You'll see if they'll ever come to a pension in their lives. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Bartenstein, you have said that you want to solve the growth limits. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: The growth brakes!]] – The growth brakes, okay, are not so similar at all. – The shop opening times are an example. I also asked myself: For whom do you want? Do you solve these brakes? – Certainly not for the small domestic businesses! Talk to the small owners! They do not know in the back and in the front how many hours they themselves, including the whole family, are still in operation because it is financially impossible for the company to employ employees during the entire opening hours. These shops just don't wear it! This means that you are burdening the local small companies a lot more than before. – In return, prefer to do so They are others, and that may be the 23 percent of companies that are in favour of extending the opening hours, namely chain businesses, whether Austrian or international. If your economic policy intention is to strengthen these chains even more, to create even more uniform cities, where you can only find the same business in every city, then this is a very good measure – our intention is not at all! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Sunday you've been distributed, Minister Bartenstein. However, I agree with Mr Oellinger, who, on the basis of the comments made by Mr Schweisgut, has already called this very question into question: I claim that you are stuck in the opening holes to release Sunday too, because that is exactly what your principle of liberalisation, globalisation is all about. It is proposed to tourism. Well, if Vienna becomes a tourist zone – what is the consequences for Lower Austria, for example? It's going to spread. Don't tell us that there seems to be a need for action here! It does not exist that appropriate regulations would also be very different. Explain You also do not ask that the economy and trade go to the ground when longer shop opening times are possible all around than in your own country! I live in Vorarlberg and can say that in Vorarlberg trade flourishes very well – despite Liechtenstein, despite Switzerland and despite Germany in the neighbouring area! It succeeds in keeping the purchasing power in the country or keeping it in about the same size with an interaction from abroad. An expansion of shop opening times means quite clearly: overall no revenue increases – we know – but that means quite clearly: more part-time, more small jobs, more atypical employment relationships, more work on demand, more large chains, a strengthening of the large chains and a strengthening of shopping centres. Become with us You certainly do not take this decision! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7555	The next speaker is Mr Walch. He's got the floor. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7573	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If I listen to the statements of the opposition regarding the change in shop opening times, I have to say that sounds like it's going to work every 72 hours soon, as if the head of the German Federal Minister Bartenstein had already decided that from next year also work will be done on Sunday and around the clock. – We liberals, I can only assure you, continue to represent the line of our former colleague Toni Blünegger. You, Mr Oellinger – please be careful! – I can only say the following: The economy has called for the shops to open around the clock, we liberals have said, no, that is not possible, and we have enforced it! Especially in the sense of women, we have also said that it is not possible to open on Sundays or holidays. Furthermore, not every holding will be covered by this scheme. Exceptional permits may be imposed by the head of state after consultation of the social partners. And as you all know, in large businesses and chain companies, where this is specifically demanded, there is God thanks to works councils. As you all know, there is a work constitution law, and that states that when the work regulations change, the works council must give its approval, which is also examined accordingly by the labour inspectorate. – I am confident because we have very strong works councils in these companies that they defend the interests of the working people accordingly. Mrs Silhavy, you criticized this! Please don't submit to your own works councils that they may only say yes and Amen there! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] As I am aware, in every federal state the same political groups as here are represented in the country days. I think that if a head of state did not hold back criticism, he would simply give approval to an expansion of the shop opening times. I think he would have difficulty both with the liberals and with the SPÖ as well as with the Greens. [[Abg. Oils: Not with the liberals!]] A head of state – I hope – represents the interests of the working people as well. So I can only assure you: There are derogations, and these derogations must be subject to consultation or approval by the Works Council. I can't imagine a trade chain keeping open for 72 hours if there's nothing going on under the line and the employees have to be paid. Under this condition no operation will open. That is why we will give this law the consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7622	The next speaker is Mr Bauer. Your speaking time is about 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7640	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! First of all, I must say that it is already interesting how different positions can be occupied within a party or the parties. On the one hand, it is honoured how far-sighted the heads of state are, but if, for example, a country captain believes that he does not need an extension of the shop opening times, it simply goes beyond that. The fact is that the government template under negotiation is not just about shop opening times, but rather about a whole series more. It is about changes in the labour rest law, the Sunday and holiday operating time law, changes in the trade regulations and the associated negative cuts in the rights of the trade workers who are given without charge. That is why this debate, not only about opening hours, but also about the appropriate protection provisions, about appropriate protection provisions for women or for the commuters, for example, what I think is very important. As EU enlargement is repeatedly tried to be used as an argument, as this leads to the extraction of purchasing power: We all know that this is, of course, a problem that has to be seen at the limits of the flow of purchasing power, but the reason for this is less to be seen in the opening hours, but rather in the different price classes. This is the much larger area that comes to grips with this. There is, of course, a connection between buying behaviour and opening hours, which is completely undisputed, but one has to think complexly. Minister Bartenstein referred to in the Committee, for example, as he sees no link between commuting and opening hours. To this end, I would like to say: In my home region, in the Weinviertel, or also in the Waldviertel, this connection is very clear. [[Abg. Silhavy: The Minister of State does not even listen to you!]] It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that public transport does not correspond to the new circumstances. On the contrary! Not only will the extension of the opening hours be carried out on the back of the employees, but the costs will also be covered. The costs involved by the fact that the person cannot rely on public transport services, because the timetables are not adapted accordingly, must bear them himself, ladies and gentlemen. This means that a shop opening time discussion without appropriate accompanying measures is simply wrong. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These accompanying measures, ladies and gentlemen, are an important prerequisite, because experience has shown that the positive effects are not achieved to the extent we have expected, because there is an increase in part-time employment. Because it is said again and again that part-time employment is nothing bad: Basically not, but if you need three jobs to be able to live once, then, I have to say, this is a way that Austria should not go and certainly does not want to go! That is to say, accompanying measures must be taken, both as regards the opening hours of childcare facilities and public transport, whose timetables need to be adapted. There must also be stricter controls of compliance with the new opening hours with corresponding consequences. Dear ladies and gentlemen! A law that only takes a one-sided step – i.e. in this case extending loading hours – and does not provide for accompanying measures cannot find the consent of responsible politicians. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7686	Next speaker is Mrs Scharer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7704	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government markets the shop opening time law with, among other things, the objectives: Increase Austria's attractiveness as a tourist country, prevent buy power outflows abroad and ultimately create jobs. In principle, there is nothing to do with these objectives; the question is only, ladies and gentlemen: How does this federal government deal with this new law? As in many areas, the impression arises that it is simply driving over it. The current rules in the tourist regions are good and, above all, sufficient, Mr Steindl! In tourist areas we do not need additional new opening hours. That is, I think, very well regulated. Their heads of state also confirm that it is not necessary to extend these times. In the end, the buy power drains to neighbouring countries cannot be regulated via shop opening times, but simply via a cheaper domestic offer. There is no doubt that the question is: Who wants and, above all, who needs the expansion of shop opening times? So, ladies and gentlemen, where are the accompanying measures? Where is the protection for workers? Where are the relevant framework conditions? Where is the protection, for example, for small and medium-sized enterprises? What measures, Mr Minister, are you planning for the Greißler around the corner and for the near-suppliers in the rural regions? The last opening-up extension has brought about zero labour market synergies. And I hear you say now, ladies and gentlemen – if you listen to me – many women can work part-time. Do you know what the situation of women especially looks like in wholesale markets? – From the need and lack of alternatives, women are made into basket members. Between five and ten hours of work per week are offered in the wholesale markets and are the rule. Where are the corresponding accompanying measures to this law? Where, for example, will the opening hours of childcare facilities be adapted to these new working hours? They also know the insufficient public transport facilities, especially in the rural regions. What are you doing, Mr Minister, to protect the current employees in trade? What labour market policies do you plan for the ever-increasing number of unemployed in these professional groups? You know that on the 30th day of the year. In June, a total of 38 000 unemployed people – around 900 more than in 2002 – are predominated in the trade group? 19 900 of them are women. In addition, 6 600 are still in re-training, of which 3 900 are women. Mr Bartenstein! There is no doubt that part-time trade offers will not solve these problems. I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to agree to this law only if, together with the social partners, with the experts and, above all, with those concerned, appropriate measures and framework conditions have been created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7753	The next speaker is Mrs Trunk. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7771	Mr President, I should like to thank you very much. Dear listeners affected by the liberalisation of opening hours! Mr Minister, perhaps a council to you: Let these people not only listen, but talk to them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They also allow me a brief foreword to the role of FPÖ members Rossmann, Walch and Dolinschek. Their role – I only remember the pension reform – is simply tragic: here, talk about cursing the opposition, perhaps vote against it again in the Federal Council, and Haider has been delegating for three weeks. It should not forget to adopt the corresponding Regulation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me come to two points concerning the impact of this measure. One point: the question of productivity increase, consumer increase and quality of work, which is very often addressed here. Mr Minister, you know: Purchasing power is determined by income, and this does not regulate the opening hours. But it's not going to happen. at present, in Austria, tax and tax burden at record level, pension reductions and income reductions. There is a genuine need for action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second area: Work quality. We know from experience: Full-time jobs are replaced by minor jobs and part-time jobs. As far as the quality of working time is concerned, I note the silence here in the House with colleagues from the ÖVP who are employed in small trade or have companies. Colleague Scheucher-Pichler, for example: She knows what effect this has on her small business in Klagenfurt if she's not herself behind the shop table. So, unfortunately, she's silent today, but she knows what she's affected about. Second question: Can small, family and medium-sized enterprises afford this extension? - No! The past surveys of the Chamber of Commerce are proof of this. Thirdly, the question of the compatibility of family and profession. This question, which has already been addressed by previous speakers, must also be answered negatively. Minister! Short and good: They're on the side of the corporations. We, the Social Democrats, want solutions that serve both workers and entrepreneurs, to strengthen competitiveness and not weaken it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another area, Mr Minister and colleagues from the ÖVP: Where did you bury the value of the family in this measure? Where did you dissociate the banner with the parole from the compatibility of family and profession? And where have you shoved the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises? The last point is that of democracy. This measure is expected to take place from 1 January. In August the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the In those federal states whose national leaders are unable to implement a regulation in cooperation with the social partners within 14 days, this liberalisation is fully implementing.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7859	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7878	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to add another very important element to the topic of charging. In Austria, a convention is now to be held, which should actually serve to reduce red tape, to combine competences, to reduce it. This is also a crucial economic factor: the complexity of eliminating the diversity of the rules. - That's where you nod. But what does Minister Bartenstein do? – He discharges responsibility and leads to a renunciation of the rules! At the end of the shop we have the situation that in the Vienna Ketzergasse in the south there is a different regulation than on the northern side of this road. This is a self-responsible withdrawal, a delegating of responsibility for something where there is a need for uniform regulation. But where the regulatory requirement exists, namely in the area of the protection of workers, there you are shortening, there you cut together, there you take away people who are without the lowest salaries, even the last protection which has so far enabled them to spend a day with the family once a weekend. I find such a policy wrong because there is actually the need for an adaptation process in such delicate materials to be carried out jointly by all the social forces in the country. Mr Bartenstein, you mentioned the Swedish model earlier, but you have not noticed that its introduction has taken place in the same way as the social partners. There is no such sound in Austria, for in Austria those who raise the vote against non-social regulations are only defamated. How did you say before? Did you say these people were incompetent – or what exactly was your expression, Mr. Minister? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: “Ignorant”!]] "Ignorant" they are, you mean. I wonder who is taking too little account of the interests here: the Federal Minister or the trade unionists. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: “Handy applause after a long reaction time, ” says the Minutes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is another point which has also been shoved in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Thus, as explained in paragraph 7, it is said that activities in the field of noise defense of professional detectives of § 137 para. 2 of the trade order deleted. The problem is: This trick didn't work. As a lobbyist group inside, a lobbyist group is working to ensure that insurance agents – those are those persons who are contractually bound to an insurer – are able to offer several products of the same division in parallel. However, this is a departure from the objective that the directive of the EU entered into force this year and is nothing but an attack on consumer rights. The consumer has a claim to know whether to deal with a broker or an agent; and only the broker is the one who is responsible for making several offers to the consumer. However, they are going here and are enabling the collaborators of insurance companies to act as brokers, and they are creating a scheme at the expense of the consumer. They create a regulation through a small shudder in the law, which in a very short time leads to the fact that there is no longer the difference between agents and brokers. Our objective should, however, be precisely the opposite of this situation, namely fair competition with clear rules. I am very sorry that we have not been able to reach this day, either, that this regulation is also rejected by the government parties. The motion for a resolution to which you wish to give your assent here today is, in any case, too little. I called for a separate vote on behalf of my group. I appeal to those Members of the FPÖ who, in the interests of consumers, wish to maintain the independent broker profession, with us to reject this part of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7936	There is no further statement of words to this effect. The debate is therefore closed. A final word on the part of the rapporteur is not wanted either. We therefore come to the votes. We shall vote on the draft law in 170 of the Supplements. Mr Matznetter asked for a separate vote on Rule 2(7) on this draft law. This desire shall be accepted. I shall therefore vote first of all on the part of the motion for a resolution concerned by the request for a separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. We therefore have a separate vote on Article 2(7), as amended by the Committee's report, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this part of the law to be a sign. – This is accepted by majority vote. We come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and here too, in the event of approval, I may request a positive sign. – I notice: The remaining parts are also adopted by majority vote. This concludes the second reading. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading to give a sign. I note that the draft law was adopted by a majority vote in third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, Dr Mitterlehner, colleagues on the rapid implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on insurance communications 2002/92/EC. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. The motion for a resolution was adopted by a majority vote. (E 10.) We shall also vote on Mrs Silhavy's motion for a resolution on labour law and other accompanying measures. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this resolution, Silhavy, to give an appropriate signal. [[Abg. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Walch) Walch?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. One: (in the direction of Abg. Walch) Are you standing or sitting?]] [[Abg. He's lying!]] – This request has remained in the minority. This item on the agenda is done. 2. Point report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (109 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Vocational Training Act, the Federal Law on the Employment of Children and Youths 1987 and the Bakery Workers' Act 1996 (171 of Supplements) 3. Point Report and request of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy concerning the draft Federal Act amending the 1985 Act on compulsory education (172 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8027	We come to points 2 and 3 on which the debate is being held under one. A request for reporting is not available to me at item 2 or item 3 of the agenda. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. First speaker is Mr Dr. Drinkl. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8057	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! After the adoption of a comprehensive budget accompanying law, we have a large number of parliamentary proceedings in front of us this week. I believe that these efforts are a good proof that this government is based on reform and resolution competence. If we put the economic chapter at the top of this week's deliberations, I think this is also proof that the concern of the Austrian economic location is particularly dear to us. This applies particularly to the employment of young people, ladies and gentlemen: 40 percent of a year find a training place in the industrial economy in the context of dual training. The economy is making an important contribution to the youth and society of our country. I am proud to report that these efforts are extremely successful: At the 2003 World Trade Championship in St. Gallen, Austria has been able to compete in excellent third place – with eleven medals and ten diplomas. Ladies and gentlemen, together with the trainees working in these areas, we can rightly be proud of this youth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We would like to further develop the system with this amendment to the Vocational Training Act. We will bring our apprentices together in international training programmes with other colleagues. We will focus the course examinations and the competence of apprenticeships and thus contribute to debureaucratisation. We will combine apprenticeship training with other special training courses, especially in top-level sports. We will continue to develop this system, ladies and gentlemen, so that young people can have even greater opportunities! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] However, we have a special sign today with the introduction of integration into vocational training. This is the consistent continuation of the efforts of this Federal Government, which began at the beginning, at the start of the government of Schüssel, with the billions of disabled people, ladies and gentlemen. It is about giving people with disabilities a little more opportunities to take their own lives into their own hands. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We do not want to offer the same thing to everyone, no, but we want to let everyone do the same training that corresponds to their possibilities. An individual programme for training in the company, an individual programme related to training in the vocational school – that is the intention behind this innovation. And we are proud to be able to offer this group the same, full social security in labour law, social security law, unemployment insurance law. This is a tremendous progress that we intend to make today! However, the efforts are not new – I admit: In 1998, we introduced a section on teaching in the Vocational Training Act. And I do not agree that these efforts have not brought success to those we have expected. We are all the more proud of the fact that in some of the federal states – for example, I am allowed to quote the Styria – it is very successful. It has given rich models of a lesson that have also led to great results. The “Youth at Work” and all those involved here are particularly grateful. You've shown me how you're doing. Your personal commitment may be the basis for today's presentation, ladies and gentlemen. The aim of this Novelle Vocational Training Act is to facilitate the entry of the disabled into the real economy. It is our aim to continue this path that others have tried to take in the federal states. However: If we want to succeed, we must learn from each other, and those involved must take a huge step towards each other. I mean, the special responsibility lies here with the professional training assistance that needs to be compensated, the interests of apprentices, parents, businesses and vocational schools must be merged. This is the secret that is regarded as a prerequisite for success. We must be careful to focus on bureaucracy and bureaucratic procedures. Justamental positions are not required. What is needed is an honest effort to live up to the provisions that we are creating today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we succeed, ladies and gentlemen, then today we are indeed taking an important step towards a new co-humanity in our society!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8136	The next speaker is Mrs Lapp. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8155	Mr President. Mr. Ministers! High house! Mr Drinkl has already begun the negotiations on this item on the agenda, and at the end of his remarks he has come a little into a phase in which he has meant that, as the government has now done, measures are being taken to ensure that disabled young people are also integrated into the labour market. I think that at a time when we are negotiating a law on equality, which we want to create this year, and when it comes to further steps in the European Year of People with Disabilities to integrate disabled people into our society, the point we are negotiating here today is a very essential one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It was a social partners agreement which was based on this law: The social partners agreed and presented a comprehensive package on the framework for vocational training for disabled and disadvantaged young people. Since autumn it has been discussed, then agreement has been reached among the social partners, and then this proposal has come to the ministries. There was then greater resistance on the part of the Ministry of Education against the fact that the government template does not necessarily provide for the visit of the vocational school to those young people who have partial qualifications. We have achieved this in negotiations – and I would like to thank Mr Amon for agreeing across party borders – that disabled young people also have access to vocational education and training. This is an essential aspect, because if we are talking about dual training, this must also apply to disabled young people, and this dual aspect not only concerns the workplace, but also covers the field of education. The second point is that those young people who need longer periods of time for their teaching will also be given this time. I think that this is also a measure that will allow for several shortcomings or disadvantages which have not been recovered in the school system, then in the context of vocational and school education. I think that we have made very substantial progress, a very important step also towards the equality of disabled and disadvantaged young people. Essential and important is that we then look at how this can be implemented in reality. I would be very pleased, Mr Drinkl, if many entrepreneurs would also rely on the qualities and talents of disabled young people and enable them to have dual training. I have very many contacts with people, with families, where young people have made compulsory school and then face very big obstacles and obstacles in terms of a professional decision and then go through all these ways. A very important anchor for those families are training facilities such as “Youth at Work” – you mentioned it. “Youth at Work” means that many young people who cannot enter the labour market are trained and made fit to enter the labour market. I also think that we must say a warm thank you to these institutions and also say to them – for it was precisely the organisation “Youth at Work” that is an important concern that the vocational education and training obligation is also enshrined – that they can continue to work here in a interplay between school and vocational training. I think that's something very essential. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make an amendment concerning the vocational training law so that graduates who have attended vocational schools can be treated as those who have a degree in teaching, not only in training contracts, but also in teaching contracts, as well as in criteria for trainers. We will vote in favour of this proposal today because we believe that in the European Year of People with Disabilities it is essential and important to give these people opportunities, but not opportunities in an anointing way, but opportunities to achieve equality.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8221	This amendment has been sufficiently supported and explained in its core points. It will be copied and distributed in writing and is in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure for the Negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8310	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8331	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This law is another milestone in integration, namely that in vocational schools. My previous speakers have already welcomed this, and I am pleased that we have succeeded in achieving a four-party agreement here. However, I would also like to mention that this was the concern of our Minister of Social Affairs and Deputy Chancellor Herbert Haupt, who took a further step towards better integration in the year of people with disabilities. It also supports the continuation of all the measures that have been started with the billions of disabled people. And thank God it was also possible with the disabled billions to equip the businesses in such a way that employees can be more easily employed with handicaps. Therefore, it is only too logical to take this step in vocational training, namely to apprenticeship training. Even if you don't want to hear: 30 years of Social Democratic Social Ministers have not made it possible to implement this law, but thank God it is never too late! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] And so I'm so glad it just became a four-party request today. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The main point of the application is the involvement of young people with social, gifted and physical disadvantages. How can this be made possible? – In the case of light handicaps through an extension of the teaching time – here there is an absolute professional obligation – and secondly, in the case of larger handicaps, with a partial qualification and a final exam. In other words, this law allows for a very individual training which is geared to the needs, skills and abilities of the individual young people. For the first time, disadvantaged young people in the labour market have a real opportunity to really complete, become integrated into the professional life and, as mentioned, to acquire their own insurance periods in order to be able to live a self-determined life in so far as it allows the handicap. I am also referring to the committee statement that we have met – we have discussed a lot about it –: The Committee notes that a first evaluation will be carried out by 2005 at the latest. Questions like: How many are affected? or: Is the law perhaps still to be adapted in one direction or another? will then be treated. That is, we are starting a process in which we do not yet know how it will prove itself in detail, but it is at least a big first step for our young people with handicaps. I agree to submit the following four-party application: Request Mr Amon, Mr Mares Rossmann, Mr Brosz, Mr Mag. Christine Lapund Collaborators on the report of the Economic Committee on the Government Template (109 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Vocational Training Act, the Federal Law on the Employment of Children and Youths 1987 and the Bakery Workers' Act 1996 (171 of Supplements) The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: In Article 1 Z 5 of the proposed law (§ 8b), the last sentence of the paragraph 8(b) is replaced by the following: 22 to read: ‘For persons who, in the context of an inclusive vocational training as referred to in point (b) of the first subparagraph, are: 2 is trained in accordance with the provisions laid down in paragraph 2. 8 the obligation or the right to attend the vocational school.’ I am looking for further cooperation, even when it comes to evaluation, and because, if it turns out that one or the other may be to be realized in a next step, we are taking all further steps together. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8415	The application is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I call Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8436	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It is not quite easy to accept Mr Rossmann's statement, if she points out, on the one hand, the merits of the head and, on the other hand, the failure of the Social Democratic Social Ministers. I can only tell you that in the area of integration in schools, we have been trying to open up further training opportunities, to open integration opportunities, to keep trying to talk to Mrs. Gehrer over the last few years, but to a large extent we have failed with Minister Gehrer. Social Democratic Social Ministers have had relatively little to do with this. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But you have to acknowledge that in this case there really was movement. This is certainly a draft law which is to be described as absolute progress. This, I believe, has something to do with the fact that Mr Huainigg did a lot of work in the ÖVP, and, especially in the last week – together with our ideas – once again in the concrete formulation, so that all that has previously been said about relativizations such as "difficulty" and "if necessary" inside, that God is no longer contained in it. In the final analysis, it is always the question of how this is implemented in practice and which loopholes are opened. We will see whether the intention of this template is actually being implemented. It will be up to the resources, it will be necessary for schools to be able to finance all of this, whether they are assistance or similar, so that this law can be implemented in the form, as it now sounds, beautifully and well, and how we will decide together, into reality as well. We will then take a close look at this, because there is the Committee's evaluation mandate. In any case, I hope that there will be the necessary funds; I am still not quite convinced that we have talked to Minister Gehrer about these things exactly three, four, five months ago – whenever it was; I think in February – and have received the clear answer: There's no money from the educational budget for this! But the vocational schools are now in the educational budget. So, how this will look in practice, we will see. At least I don't give up hope. Perhaps something will also change in the budgetary framework. In principle, however, I see this only as an intermediate step, because we are talking about exactly what is now possible in the vocational school, for years also in secondary schools, in secondary schools. The argument has always been that the whole requirement cannot be met, therefore it is not possible to open the schools either. We have now found a formulation to determine which parts are subject to compulsory vocational education, so to speak an individual solution. I believe that it must be possible to think of similar solutions even in the field of middle-schools. It may therefore be possible, despite difficulties in individual areas, to allow integration in these schools too. Let's see if we can move something there too! I hope that this change of law will prove to be a step out of the rigidity and that there will also be a willingness to move with regard to the further, absolutely necessary steps in particular in the EIA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8485	The next speaker is Mr Amon. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8503	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, if in a four-party agreement we decide to adopt a novel of the vocational training law and also amend parts of the compulsory schooling law, that is, I think, a very nice signal, a further development within the framework of dual vocational training. We are in Austria, which leads to the integration of children with disabilities of the body and the senses into our education system, very far – it should not always be said bad! Integration is basically possible in all areas. The fact that this is associated with difficulties is beyond dispute. But we're very far here. On the question of the integration of children and young people with mental disabilities, we are certainly at the beginning of a discussion, but this is not easy, which is a difficult discussion and where, as I believe, a polemic has no place. It is therefore not a matter of praising anointing or obscene great deeds today. Rather, it is a question of thanking not only a number of people involved in the negotiations on the law enforcement, but also of thanking those Austrian companies who are willing to take an essential step in terms of integration here in advance, because this is, of course, also for companies – often micro and micro-enterprises doing such an integration – a challenge and certainly not a very simple task. It is therefore important to thank these establishments in the first place for their willingness to do so. What's this about? – It is about creating a partial qualification from teaching professions. In Austria there are almost 300 teaching professions, i.e. a really wide field of opportunities to work professionally. If, now, they are able to obtain partial qualification in such a training contract, in such a training relationship with the parties concerned, then it should, if it is considered to be useful – from what we assume – so that it is also possible to complete those parts within the framework of the vocational school. I therefore think this is important because it is just the dual training that takes very strong account of individual talents and possibilities. As our differentiated education system as a whole does, it is in particular: the dual vocational training which opens up opportunities which we should also benefit accordingly. I would like to conclude by Mrs Mag. Lapp and Dr. Niederwieser from the SPÖ, as well as Mr Dieter Brosz, thank the Greens for the negotiations. In particular, I would like to thank my colleague Franz-Joseph Huainigg, who has been very committed to this issue, who has been very much involved in the discussion and has certainly been a strong partner in the negotiations. But it is also – and I would like to stress this – to thank the relevant ministries, the Minister for Social Affairs, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Education, for, without the assistance and support of the Head of State and the responsible officials in all three departments, such a legislative initiative would not be possible! In this sense, I think, it is a beautiful sign if we can decide on a four-party request today, and I thank all those who have participated in it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8551	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8570	Mr President. High house! The present government template also includes a change to the Child and Youth Employment Act. We all know that young people working at night must carry out an examination of their suitability and that this examination should be repeated annually by occupational physicians. At least at the moment, it is in § 51 of the Workers' Protection Act. This amendment now converts this provision into an examination provision within the meaning of a general youth examination, which in turn is based on § 132a of the General Social Security Act. We basically agree. Where we see a danger or where there may be criticism, the quality of these general youth studies, which will also be planned for those young people, for those apprentices who work at night. These studies are not accompanied by occupational doctors, general youth studies whose purpose is to review the general state of health and which do not take into account the special loads of night work. In addition, the costs of these investigations are currently borne by employers, in future by the general public. It is therefore, Mr Federal Minister, that there is also a small discharge from the teaching establishments, which is to be held here, since in future the general public, namely the local health telephone, will be burdened with it. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I should like to point out that some time ago, in the House, young people's examinations were reduced from 19 to 18 years of age to be reduced. I think we should think in due course of time about whether this path was the right one. In concrete terms, the special youth occupational medical examination is currently being replaced by a routine and series examination of the local health telephone. Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to point out this fact because it may be a loophole in health care. We should check at a later date whether this loophole is used. I would also like to make a second amendment to this government proposal by my group. We have deliberately divided our amendments into two applications, so that, as far as inclusive vocational training is concerned, government parties can have an agreement. I therefore propose an amendment by the honourable Members. Christine Lapp, Heidrun Silhavy, Franz Rieplund Genossinen, on the report of the Economic Committee, 171 of the Supplements, concerning a Federal Act amending the Vocational Training Act, the Federal Law on the Employment of Children and Youth 1987 and the Bakery Workers Act, in 109 of the Supplements. In particular, in this amendment, we are concerned that there should be no distinction between teaching and training contracts in the future. The aim is that no matter whether extended teaching time or partial qualification, a teaching contract within the meaning of the BAG should be the basis for training. I invite you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8633	The application is duly filed and is therefore under negotiation. It will be duplicated in accordance with the provisions I have mentioned many times today. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8728	The next speaker is Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8747	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the vocational training law, a four-party application, is another law in the right direction. More particularly disadvantaged young people than ever can be integrated into vocational training, I believe, a very important boost in the European Year of People with Disabilities. Two options are provided for the integration of disadvantaged persons. First of all, the teaching period can be extended by up to two years with a degree examination, especially for young people who have a slight handicap and can reach the educational goal with an extension of the teaching period. It is very important that they enable a final audit- In the case of a pension scheme, the amount of the pension will be reduced by the amount of the pension. I think that's right. Our Minister of Social Affairs was the first in this office to create a billion disabled people in Austria, so that those professional groups, including those mentioned above, have the opportunity to get a job. I am asking the economy to give these people a special opportunity; There are promotions for this! I'm seeking approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8783	The next speaker was Mr Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8801	Mr. Minister! High house! I am pleased that today's vocational training law will be dealt with and will probably also be decided with a four-party agreement. It is an important step towards the transition of the school profession so that disabled young people have a chance – even if they are difficult to control, have learning disabilities, are mentally disabled – to enter the so-called first labour market. I still have a clear example of a young entrepreneur, a book dealer from Vienna, who said to her employees: We have a new colleague! These employees then looked pretty much at them when this entrepreneur introduced them to a young man with a down syndrome, and they meant: What does that bring us?- Oh, my God! This is just a burden, because this colleague needs a lot of time, and he has little power to do! – It was then, however, that this new employee, on the one hand, spread a very good mood in the company, precisely through his humor, and on the other hand, has also brought a lot of performance. And he has begun to pack books himself, bring them to the post office, with his personality very matured in this process, and he is no longer to be thought away from this company today; the colleagues do not want to ‘deliver’ him at all. The new vocational training law really offers opportunities to enter as entrepreneurs. And I would like the courage of entrepreneurs to join in. In this context, there was a strong discussion, including with regard to compulsory vocational training. I believe that together we have found a good solution, a very individual, personal solution, whereby parents and entrepreneurs jointly define what the learning objectives and learning content are – and this must then be implemented by the vocational school. This is, of course, a challenge for vocational schools; There are supposed to be no more problems in the field of education, which are “delivered. ” In two years – which has also been determined – an evaluation will be carried out, see how well it goes or where there may still be a need for action to improve this law. I am really glad that a four-party agreement is reached in a somewhat hot political time and that this is likely to be decided together. This shows that we can also move on to business. Ladies and gentlemen, you may ask yourself today: Huainigg speaks – and no sign interpreter, no sign language course? – I am also sorry that this is not the case today, but these translations have already been effective, because in the previous presidential session it was discussed and decided that we will now consider whether, in the case of TV broadcasts from plenary sessions, these should not generally be transferred to sign language. And I believe that this is a very important sign of recognition of sign language.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8844	Mrs Wolfmayr's next speech. The clock is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8862	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too welcome the innovation on the vocational training law – and here, in particular, integrative vocational training through partial qualification. My previous speakers have already commented in detail and pointed out that in the European Year of People with Disabilities there is a sign: a practical solution for disabled young people, a realistic one that meets the requirements of time, of society, of the economy. Werner Amon has already thanked our colleague Franz-Joseph Huainigg for his dedicated work in advance. I would also like to thank you very much, on behalf of my group, probably on behalf of all those who have long wanted to move in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen! The major improvement in this law compared to the previous state is to train certain own skills – and to consider others who are automatically required for some professional sectors, but are not so necessarily necessary when looking closer, no longer as essential to the exercise of certain professions. It is no longer in fixed lanes, but in a kind of module system, by acquiring the ability so to speak of individual building blocks, knowledge and skills are acquired. And an important role in this context is the vocational training assistance. My colleague, Drinkl, has already pointed out the situation in the Styria, where there are some exemplary examples. In this context, I would like to mention the dedicated “ Chance B” project, with which I am personally connected and whose work I have known for a long time. In this project, partial qualification, in agreement with all parties involved and in close association with economic enterprises, has been carried out and operated for years and quite naturally. And I know that today's legal specification is a further encouragement and confirmation of the valuable work of a dedicated team. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Of course, in each specific case, Good wants all parties involved, a welcome and tailored approach, a rethinking of all those involved in this process – and a rethinking ultimately of all of us, ladies and gentlemen. Originally, I wanted to address the subject of vocational schools, but for reasons of time I will not do so now because I would like to make the following request: Request Amon, MBA, Rossmann, Brosz, Mag. Lapp and colleagues on the report and request of the Economic Committee concerning a federal law amending the compulsory schooling law in 1985 (172 of the supplements) ==References====External links== Decisions to be taken by the European Parliament and the Council on the proposal from the Commission to Paragraph 1 of the bill referred to shall read as follows: ‘1. Paragraph 20 gives the previous text the term ‘(1)’ and becomes the following paragraph. 2 added: ‘(2) For persons who, in the context of an integrative vocational training in accordance with Section 8b para. 2 of the Vocational Training Act, BGBl. No. 142/1969, to be trained, exists in accordance with the provisions laid down in § 8b para. 8 of the Vocational Training Act the duty or the right to attend the vocational school.’ Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude: The four-party agreement is a sign for the decision of this law and has a signal effect. I believe and hope that with this reasonable and progressive law, we move in a common direction and take a path that is common to those concerned but also beneficial and interesting for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8934	Mr Amon, Mr Rossmann, Mr Brosz, Mr Mag. Lapp and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are involved in the negotiations. The next speaker was Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8956	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! I would like to express at this point a few basic thoughts about people with disabilities and then address integrative vocational training. In my opinion, the picture of people with disabilities is still strongly influenced by prejudices, pity and fear. In my opinion, this attitude strengthens barriers in the mind, which close the look for the feasible, for the possible contribution of people with disabilities in our society and when it comes to the elimination of real barriers – for example, just think of the variety of access barriers that exist almost everywhere in everyday life – really do not do anything. In my opinion, therefore, the special abilities of these special people will not be promoted – nor will they be developed. We therefore abandon the strengths that people with special needs who have disabilities undoubtedly have. It is not the prejudices and the non-performance that should focus on dealing with people with disabilities, but on developing the benefits of these people and promoting their potential. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I come from a congregation where there is a special school, which bears the beautiful name “Sun school”. The integration of disadvantaged young people is in This school is excellent and children and young people are best encouraged in this school. But there is also the problem in this school again and again: What happens to these kids, what happens to these young people after school? Together with the urban renewal project, we have developed a model that makes it possible for young people with special educational needs or a disability to enter work. Underprivileged young people are involved in employment initiatives, such as in the “Youth at Work” already mentioned today, and they can work there. The aim is to integrate young people into regular teachers. In my opinion, this draft law, which we are going to adopt today, lays another important foundation in this direction, because the training of disadvantaged young people is to be done on the one hand in teaching establishments – as I am quite clear from Mr Huainigg: I also wish to have a lot of businesses that make up the “must” to employ disadvantaged young people – but there can also be training in independent training facilities. From my work in an employment initiative, I know that it is sometimes better for disadvantaged young people to spend some time in a protected framework so that their potential can really be promoted. I also know that there are many providers who have the necessary know-how and also a social education offer in this regard. I think it is important to say from this point of view that these training facilities are also equipped with the necessary resources in order to actually offer the best possible training. It would be nice, Minister Bartenstein, if these training facilities could receive longer contracts than – as is often the case – only for a year, because this makes working for these institutions very difficult. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I am very optimistic, because it is in the law that it must be made credible that the training facility is guaranteed with a high degree of probability for several years. And there, Minister of State, I think, will I guess you're talking. Finally, I would like to take a brief look at our spokesperson, Mrs Mag. Lapp, thank you for the excellent outcome of the negotiations on compulsory vocational schooling. A warm thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9038	Mr Bartenstein has spoken from the government bank. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9056	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In a short time, I also begin with a word of thanks: It is nice – and I have also expressed this hope in the Committee – that this important law on inclusive vocational training will be adopted here by the High House on the basis of a four-party decision-making. It was our colleague, Mr Huainigg, who, a few minutes ago, told us the story of a young person with disabilities, with Mr Huainigg speaking about the enrichment that this young person brought to the company for his colleagues. 2 000 people that the theoretical potential for integrative vocational training is: young people with a disadvantage, disability, a handicap, as Mrs Rossmann said; 500 will probably be de facto at the beginning. I think it is good that we have agreed to an evaluation for 2005 that it is therefore temporary provisions by 2008, because it is of course new country that we are entering it, and it is a real progress for young people with disabilities. According to the best laws and regulations in our country for the integration of young people into different types of schools, integration should now take place on the way from school to work. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We know that particularly people with disabilities often have great strengths and weaknesses in sub-areas, and this tailor-made training should therefore contribute – also in the sense of a concrete economic opportunity for these people in working life – to training these strengths into a partial qualification; in some cases, it may also be with an extension of teaching time to obtain a full qualification in the sense of a completed apprenticeship. An important and beautiful act of law! I've already thought about it. It fits this bill into the “European Year of People with Disabilities”; it fits in with the focus of the Federal Government and our Minister of Social Affairs, the disability billions, just converted to euro. And it also fits the High House and the climate in our country, that such a law is implemented on the basis of a four-party agreement and thus an all-party decision-making. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9105	The next speaker was Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. The watch is set to 3 minutes if desired. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9123	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In fact, Mr Bartenstein, I agree: We have been hard – and ultimately well negotiated. This Act on Integrative Vocational Training is a truly important step in the “European Year of People with Disabilities”. But you, Federal Minister Bartenstein, are Minister of Labour for all young people in our country. Therefore, at the end of this debate, allow me to point out that you and Mrs Gehrer, the Minister of Education, have not only said this once – you have confirmed this, you have demonstrated it several times, you have even suggested – that every youth in our country – and because all young people are so important to me, I would like to stress once again, ladies and gentlemen – to have a training place if he is appropriate and wants to have it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] All the young people, ladies and gentlemen I have to deal with – you certainly also; They are certainly also addressed by young people – they want to have a job, only they can't in part. Mr Bartenstein, you could intervene, but, I say now, you probably do not want to. It is no good to know how you have done this this morning that Austria is doing this in the European Union. Comparing absolutely well there- states: This does not benefit those over 30 000 young people in Austria who are looking for work who do not have a job. You, Federal Minister Bartenstein, have also shown absolutely unsatisfying about the June data, however: That's no use either! Instead, you should do something there, Minister of State. I think that all the accompanying measures that we agreed to last September are sound and smoke, Mr Federal Minister, if they do not produce! I do not yet see any positive effects of the economic recovery package last September, when it is a fact – and the figures speak a clear language – that the number of young people looking for work increases every month and the number of apprenticeships decreases. Now I come to the actual law. – It is only right and cheap that, in the European Year of People with Disabilities, today, we will jointly adopt an integrative vocational training law, which is now made possible for the group of young people who have had it a little harder in life than all others and so far excluded from a well-founded vocational training. We know that the teaching was not suitable for this, and it should now be replaced by it. You've recognized this, Minister of State, and that's really good. But to the memory: Almost it would have failed the Minister of Education – one has to say that again – because, I think, she was not very interested in integration into the vocational school! But fortunately, all those involved – Dr. Huainigg has already been mentioned, Mr Amon, colleague Brosz, colleague Lapp – were able to negotiate that this inclusive vocational training has now been achieved in such a way that disadvantaged young people cannot be excluded from the vocational school. Thank you for having this opportunity for all the young people now!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9198	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law which amends the vocational training law and other laws, including the title and receipt in 171 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Lap, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary or amendment. MEPs also have Amon, Rossmann, Brosz, Mag. Mr Lap, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. As this amendment within the meaning of Article 14(4). 10 Federal Constitutional Act can only be adopted in the presence of at least half of the members and by a majority of two thirds of the votes cast, I first of all define the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above, in accordance with the legislative text's classification, and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Lapp, ladies and gentlemen, have an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 1 in Art. 1 introduced. I am looking for a sign for those Members who are here. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Deputies Mag. Lapp, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 1 § 8b para. 2, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11 and Para. 22 last sentence. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – It is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Deputies Mag. Lapp, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of a kind. 1 § 8b para. 22 last sentence. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who give their consent. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Deputies Amon, Rossmann, Brosz, Mag. Lapp, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment, which is also of a kind. 1 § 8b para. 22 last sentence. I am looking for a sign for those Members who are here. – This is unanimously adopted. Deputies Mag. Lapp, fellow Members, have an additional request concerning Art. 1 § 20 para. 3 introduced. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Deputies Mag. Lapp, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 1 § 34a. I would ask those Members who give their consent to a sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining part of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall come to third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We now proceed to the vote on the draft law concerning a federal law amending the compulsory schooling law in 172 of the supplements. Hiezu have MEPs Amon, Mag. Mr Lap, Mr Rossmann, Mr Brosz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a new paragraph. 2 referred to in § 20 and to the resulting change in the name of the paragraph. The present draft and the additional application submitted may be submitted within the meaning of Article 14(4). 10 Federal Constitutional Act will be passed only in the presence of at least half of the members and by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast. I therefore begin by stating the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately leave the draft law with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the additional request made by Mr Amon, Mr Mag. Lap, Rossmann, Brosz, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. 4. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (65 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Model Protection Act 1990 (Novelle 2003) (169 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9344	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker here is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9368	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Design protection or the protection of tastes, as it stands today, can be of economic importance, even if until now the applications were relatively small, that is to say admit, especially for the reason that the development of designs is increasingly associated with costs, with quite high costs for companies. It should only be noted on the edge that this is not a new legal matter, but already at the end of the 18th century. In France, for example, there were tastes of silk products. So that's an old topic. Designs of taste can have a correspondingly high economic value. It is therefore gratifying that the European Union has also undertaken to adopt directives on the protection of competition in this area. It will now be the Duration of protection of five years with two extension possibilities, i.e. from a total of 15 years, extended to five years plus four times extension possibilities. This 25-year protection, of course, provides the design companies with a corresponding safeguarding of their activities. In addition, the current absolute novelty, which had to be given worldwide, is replaced by a relative, Europe-wide novelty. This means, on the one hand, that third-party imports provide better protection for businesses, for example from low-cost countries, but on the other hand that products become more expensive for consumers. We believe that this legal area is a non-insignificant field of tension towards consumer protection. In principle, we welcome the harmonisation that is taking place here. In principle, we also welcome this competition law and the implementation of directives. However, we believe that, particularly in the area of the missing repair clause, the problems that could arise in consumer protection are so serious that we are unfortunately unable to agree. The repair clause concerns the reproduction of samples of components of complex products. This is in particular a problem in the automotive sector, for example with headlights and other body parts. An absolute ban on reproduction could lead to substantial costs for consumers. As far as insurance is concerned, costs may increase and will be shifted to consumers. We believe that this new law will significantly increase the number of notifications by implementing directives in this area. In view of tens of thousands of workers in this field and a few hundred businesses – especially small and medium-sized enterprises – the automotive supply industry seems to be appropriate for us to insert a corresponding repair clause here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am therefore in favour of one of the amendments tabled Amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Introduce Hoscher and Comrades to the draft law in the report of the Economic Committee 169 of the Supplements on the Government Template 65 of the Supplements on Model Protection Act Novelle 2003. The request has been distributed to my knowledge so that I can give up reading. In terms of content, in principle, the protection of samples is also applicable in this area, but it is intended to enable the immediate reproduction of spare parts, against a corresponding charge, which is formulated in this amendment proposal. This seems to us to be a common way of finding a compromise between the interests of businesses to protect their expenses and the interests of consumers not to have to pay higher prices. I would therefore ask you to step up this request because you would give us the opportunity to agree to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9431	The request put forward by Mr Hoscher in his key points is distributed in the hall, in addition to the Stenographical Protocol, and is under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9555	As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9573	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! EU Directive 98/71/EC on the legal protection of designs and models and EC Regulation No. 6/2002 on the Community designs require a revision of the Model Protection Act. The present draft law of the Federal Government contains the adaptations of the Model Protection Act, which was amended in 1990, to the Directive and accompanying measures to the Regulation. Among other things, the definitions of the terms “patterns” and “products” are amended, the introduction – my previous speaker has called it – of “relative novelty”, the “novelty period”, and the extension of the maximum duration of protection to 25 years. It also adapts the provisions on the annulment of a model. In future, model applications can only be filed centrally with the Patent Office. The current possibility of making applications to the Chambers of Commerce, which have been acting as a notifying body, will in future be avoided by this new legislative act. On the one hand, this is linked to an increased administrative burden due to this decentralised notification, and on the other hand, delays in the procedures have also occurred in individual cases. Time-limited entries made with decentralised notified bodies have sometimes led to delays in time or in individual cases to time-limits and disadvantages for the applicants. In order to make the above adjustments and eliminate the possible disadvantages for the applicant, this amendment of the Model Protection Act is now available for decision in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9606	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9625	Mr President. Minister! High house! We Greens maintain the approximation of legislation in the Member States. In principle, it makes sense. We also think the measure makes sense that only the Patent Office is responsible, because it means both administrative simplification and clarification of competences. The problem we see is the extension of the maximum term of protection to 25 years. In the field of patents, we always have a critical attitude, because of the fact that current patent protection is in principle preferable to large companies and that small, creative, innovative companies are disadvantaged, even because of the costs involved. In this We cannot accept the extension of the maximum duration of protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9664	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 65 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Hoscher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary request. I shall first vote on this supplementary proposal and then on the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. The amendment by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Hoscher, ladies and gentlemen, see the insertion of a new paragraph. 2 in § 4a before. I am looking for a sign of approval for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking in favour of this. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. I shall now vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is the majority. The draft law is therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – It is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 5. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (35 of the Supplements): Subject-matter of the Republic Austria concerning Annex III to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Live Animals and Plants (168 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9735	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Gartlehner. He wishes to limit his speaking time by 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9762	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! We have here a legislative proposal to sign a State Treaty which provides for the evasion of the Washington Convention on the protection of species, in a way that we do not like, namely to realize this aberration, where States affected by the export of these protected animals and which have not allowed them to be transformed into their export bans. I think that this is a very worrying way, from the point of view of animal welfare law, but also from the point of view of intergovernmental acceptance, coordination and cooperation in animal welfare matters, if one no longer insists that certificates of origin and export licences of that State are necessary to export such animals, whether live or in the form of skins. I believe that this is essentially the beginning of all animal welfare measures in the international field in the case of protected animals. You can say: Today it is the meadow, the red fox and the hermelin, next year it is probably the elephant or ivory of the elephant from Kenya, which, although prohibited there, may be officially imported here. I believe that this is not a good way of truly performing credible international animal protection as the European Union. The Socialists will therefore reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9798	As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Key to word reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9816	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Besides the destruction of existing habitats, trade in animal and plant products – which is generally known – is certainly one of the main reasons for the danger and eradication of various species of animals. It is therefore a good approach and full support for the existence of this Washington Convention since 1973 and for Austria's accession to this Agreement and Agreement on trade in endangered species and endangered species of plants of a free nature in 1982. We all know that this will protect more than 3,000 species of animals and more than 30,000 species of plants. This will, as it were, lay a foundation stone for these plants and animals to continue to exist. There are – we know too – fines, which are between €700 and €36 000, and this will certainly ensure that no problems and no mistakes occur. In this context – and I would like to say this today – one can truly thank the green organisations, the various nature conservation and animal welfare organisations, because they have certainly contributed to the fact that there has been a rethinking in the population and that people have been sensitized. It has been achieved by ensuring basic protection from elephants to marine animals, from endangered snakes to rare birds. But there are – and unfortunately this is also a fact – certain rules in the EU, and we are in a European Community, and this EU calls on us to reach agreement with the rest of the states. This is a responsibility that we must be aware of, and that is also a responsibility that we bear. If we, together with the EU, now make a reservation against four species of weeds and three species of foxes, I do not mean that this is the beginning of an underrun of species protection, as my previous speaker said, but it is more or less about complying with EU requirements and regulations. This is really not a problematic matter. Nevertheless, I would like to take advantage of the moment and the context to encourage us to break our heads very well, as we can ensure, especially in a future strongly expanded EU, in an EU area that is further expanding, that good, too high and uniform standards in the protection of animals and in the protection of species of different plants and animals are achieved. That is why we will vote in favour of the law by the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9862	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9880	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It was once a country that decided in 1982 to join an international agreement on the protection of species. [[Abg. Großruck: The “Beene Maya” is also starting!]] It was once a country that was willing to join a larger community in the mid-1990s, and all those who were concerned that environmental and nature conservation standards could be poorly ordered were said: No, dear critics, dear friends, we will be advocates and pioneers for high environmental standards in this large EU community, for high standards of nature conservation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And what are you doing today? – This question is also not uninteresting by law: There is an agreement that we have committed ourselves to in 1982. We are later creating a legal system with 1995 which now causes us to take back what we had promised to a much larger international community in 1982. Why the whole thing? – Because, as has already been explained in the general guidelines of my previous speaker, there are some gaps that the EU can take advantage of. If a State imposes a so-called reservation on a species of endangered species listed in the Annex to the Washington Convention, this shall also apply to the Convention on the Protection of Species. Within the EU, we now have the situation that Ireland has an interest in being able to continue breeding fur with foxes in commercial farms. It is therefore pre-emptive within the EU and has said: We do not want Austria, Germany, Spain, Greece, France, whoever protects foxes, because we do not want to be bound because we want to continue our fur business. What, then, does this strong Union, which has also set itself the objective of protecting the environment and nature? – She says okay, if Ireland wants to, we all want it too! And what is happening to the great Austria that has made itself so strong that it wants to be a champion that it wants to fight on the front line for environmental and nature conservation? – They say: The EU wants to do this, we can't do anything! This means, at the request of some, in fact, a handful of Irish fur growers, who want to produce foxes, will now go to the whole EU, including Austria, to level the CITES Species Protection Agreement downwards and undermine the protection of species. Maybe a few more numbers to make sure you know how absurd the whole thing is: In Ireland, 64 percent of the population reject commercial fur farming. In Ireland, 1 700 foxes are slaughtered annually in fur farms, by the way, in a way that would not be animal-friendly in Austria. Because of these 1,700 foxes, which want to produce a handful of fur farmers, the whole EU now has to say: We are sorry, unfortunately we cannot adhere to the Washington Convention on Species, to protect the rat fox and some other species and to exclude them from trade. Is that your understanding of Community policy? Is that your idea of species conservation? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And because I'm just listening, the Irish farmers – now I've been so happy that political correctness would have come in. [[Abg. Grossruck: And farmers!]] – England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales have just banned the fox hunt, and the fur farming of foxes has been banned there for a long time. For just a year, England has been trying to get out without fox hunting and to see if the fox population is going to explode and the whole agriculture is being looted. Nothing's happened! No artificially bred foxes have been exposed in order to hunt them either. That is why we have now consistently taken the step of prohibiting fox hunting. I think that if the highly traditional and in terms of fox hunting is very conservative Britain is able to achieve such a protection of the foxes, then Austria, which no longer has its own fur farms, which is just because in some conservative circles it is supposed to be fashion, might, in effect, try to revitalize the fox hunt in Austria artificially, really put itself on the point of view and say: For us, the protection of red foxes and the other animals mentioned above, to which we have committed ourselves in 1982 in the Convention on the Protection of Species, applies. I ask you, and be it only as a sign of a Federal Animal Protection Act, in which you are also presenting yourself as a subject of impunity and in which you will have to show whether you are seriously interested in animal welfare or not not to agree to this proposal and not to make any reservation. It is now in fact in the hands of Austria to prevent this EU reservation from being applied and to ensure that the objectives of the Convention on Species are maintained. You have the decision!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9945	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy's request to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 35 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. 6. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment 170/A by Mr Wolfgang Großruck, Mr Doris Bures, Mr Detlev Neudeck, Mr Gabriela Moser, Mr President, on a federal law amending the Law amending the laws on non-profit-making housing (192 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10002	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate begins with the rapporteur, Mag. Tancsits, with a voluntary time limit of 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10026	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This four-party application, i.e. a consensual matter, is about exempting tax-free non-profit housing companies from the capital gains tax – logically, I would like to say – those profits from the asset management that concern reserve capital. In fact, this is not an innovation, but since 1988, when the reserve capital has been determined, it has been enshrined in the law. In practice, various assessments have been made by the competent financial authorities. In order not to have to wait here for a move to take place so as not to have to intervene with a decree, which, by the way, would have no influence on the saying practice of the independent financial Senate, we have decided to make this clear statement in the law. I am pleased that we are able to make this necessary change within a short period of time, and I would like to stress once again that the handling of a modern, targeted community in housing is important and important for us. I take this immediately, as you will probably claim the opposite of the opposition at the next item on the agenda, when you use the former non-profit federal housing companies. I underline that in a few years, especially as regards the revision of the housing laws and the housing law, we have brought them to the stage of the time. A modern, reinforced reserve capital formation forces the relatively fast use of money in social housing. We have created the possibility that the non-profit-makers can be pioneers in new forms of housing, with innovations – keyword: caring housing – and are pioneers in the achievement of the Kyoto goal, for example through the well-accepted contracting process. It is also important to me that they not only have to provide basic services in social housing, but also to contribute to large-scale property formation, and that the person who has to make certain amounts of basic or own resources also has a corresponding option of property formation. We are therefore committed to this modern, social, non-profit housing, and this change of law is a corresponding contribution to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10070	The next speaker was Mrs Bures. The speaking time is gladly set to 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10088	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has become rare: We make a joint request to the non-profit housing sector, and it is really only about making it clear that there is to be a quick clarification as regards the capital income tax exemption for non-profit building associations. That is where we met and found ourselves, and we have also tabled the request together. However, I suggest that in future, there should be this common procedure also in the non-profit-making housing sector as a whole, because it is a very important segment of social housing. When we talk about the non-profit housing companies, these are 500,000 apartments in Austria. It is this mix of different housing, and it is not only about housing property, it is also about private homes, about municipal apartments, about properties and also about cooperative apartments, that we can offer secure housing in Austria in the Second Republic, that, unlike other major cities in Austria, we do not have shatterings and a rather good mix of the population classes. The common good is an essential part of social housing, which would not exist, would not be for the benefit of the common people. And so far, Mr Tancsits, this has been a common position that we have represented. In recent years, however, this does not seem to be the case anymore. They are obviously talking about a position that is four years old. I recall that, as far as the federal apartments are concerned, joint-profit people become the object of the desire of real estate investors. I understand that this is about returns and revenue, as it is about the Austrian family silver. Unfortunately, in the last three years with your legal provisions, you have made sure that an essential segment of social housing has become the object of the desire of real estate investors. And you're right: We will also be able to discuss this in detail at the next item on the agenda. The problem of your regulations is that there are a few investors who make big profits, but those people, especially young families, who go on a search for housing, those people who are the tenants of an apartment, will be those who will face loss of liquefied apartments. Unfortunately, this is the wrong development, which is unfortunately the wrong direction you are taking. At the moment, however, we have a common proposal, in reality a common clarification, which we would like to agree with. However, I wish – and in this respect I do not have very great hopes, according to your remarks – that we will find a common procedure in which it is not a matter of crushing the people of the community, but rather of developing and developing a good system, which would be not only a residential policy, but also economic policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10125	Mr Neudeck has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10146	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This four-party proposal, as my previous speaker, Mr Tancsits, said, serves to clarify the tax-free management of assets by non-profit associations. This amendment avoids a variety of procedures. The Köst requirement by a number of financial offices would have led to proceedings to challenge these Köst requirements, although in our opinion the current regulation was clear anyway. It is therefore no further privilege, I would say, to the public, but it is merely for clarification and is therefore in the further sense a step towards administrative simplification. It saves both the federal government's federal government costs and the non-profits who would have had to fight these prescriptions. It is gratifying that this request could be made as a four-party request, although I cannot agree with Mr Bures in her glorification of the Members of Parliament. Of course, these occupy a segment that is very important, but thank God the tenants do not fall on what you tell them here. I have not yet met a tenant who was recently removed from a non-profit home – even if it is one of the federal states whose carriers have opted out of the community. Here I can also say to the rescue of real estate investors: The master of the house with the capperl, who only cashes and does nothing, is no longer there. The real estate investment is today a very wide spread. And I need to tell you something: If you compare the prices on the private housing market and above all on the old house market with prices paid to the public by advance payments et cetera, then you take it in many areas with them, although you do not have certain privileges. I would ask you to check at the municipality of Vienna that there are costs that actually comply with the rental law, and that the municipality of Vienna does not raise ongoing canal fees et cetera. [[Abg. Neighbors: Do you also sell an apartment on conditions such as the municipality of Vienna?]] That would be a task for you, rather than now yelling at those who have left the community.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10183	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10202	Mr President. Mr. Minister! These are the two simple expressions that can be used to describe this brief discussion of the importance of the people of the community and, so to speak, a 1993 correction. That is why, from our side, there is not only a massive contribution, but rather support: No question as to what has been decided under major coalitional omens in 1993, needs to be clarified in favour of the tenants, in favour of the common people. On the other hand, I find it quite pleasant and politically very important and essential that both Mr Neudeck and Mr Tancsits of the ÖVP stress the importance of public utility as such and specifically the scope of the non-profit housing companies here in the plenary session of the National Council and in their importance. What you have done in the last two or three years with regard to the danger and questioning – so to speak – of the common interest - has rather meant a different attitude and has been at the expense of the common good. – I just remember the 2002 budget accompanying law. Today, in my opinion, making a clear commitment is very valuable, especially because it is not yet clear how far you are providing for a change in rental rights at the WGG in the summer, in the coming weeks, especially with a view to reorientating the rents with the WGG, so that the federal housing companies you want to sell will bring a higher yield for the budget. Mr Neudeck, it would have been quite beneficial if you had made this clear in your contribution to the debate. Can you rule this out? – The answer would be interesting! – Then it is now also recorded in a protocol: [[Abg. Neudeck: We already excluded that!]] They exclude that there will be a rental interest increase for the WGG in the future, in the near future, in the summer. [[Abg. Neudeck: You define the “next time”, and I tell you...!]] – I have previously restricted this to the next months during the summer, so that the National Council does not decide at the first plenary session in September at once, so to speak, a rental increase so that you can sell the federal apartments and the federal housing companies more expensive. [[Abg. Neudeck: Yes, yes! That's not what we're gonna do.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: 20 times! 30 times!]] – Thank you very much, I was well worth it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But you also have to carry this outside, the answer from us!]] In my view, the meaning of this debate is fulfilled, and I am glad that there is the common request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10297	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10316	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am also referring to the amendment to the law on non-profit accommodation adopted unanimously in the Building Committee yesterday. In essence, this is a clarification in the field of corporate tax law 1988, in order to eliminate possible ambiguities with regard to the tax-free management of assets in Article 5(10). The Federal Government has already demonstrated its competence in housing policy through the 2002 residential law novel. The right path has been followed by deregulation and the provision of wide-ranging property, as well as the design of new forms of housing, such as sheltered housing. If the long-term trend in the rental cost index is compared with the index of inflation, the increase in rental costs for the first time in 2002 is below the inflation cost index. This proves that the path taken is successful and correct. On a given occasion, I would like to tell the tenants of the BUWOG and WAG that nothing changes for them through this novel. If the tenant does not use his right to acquire property, his lease will continue to be fully maintained in the event of a change of ownership. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this case, there is therefore no deterioration as usual for tenants, and that is why my group is happy to agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10358	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Becher in word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10376	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased with this one-bright commitment to community use, but it was and does not always dominate this opinion in the form of all political groups. Mr Bures and Mr Moser have also mentioned this in their speeches. [[Abg. Neudeck: I do not want to glorify them, the common good! That's where you need to be careful!]] At the time, the ÖVP/FPÖ coalition decided that with 1. On 4 April 2001, the federal housing companies were discharged from the public utility, but it was the countries that had exercised restraint on this issue and also prevented large-scale disassembly of the public utility. The common interest is closely linked to the promotion of housing. – In addition, a few brief remarks: The promotion of housing in Austria is in any case very important, both in terms of quality and in terms of quantity. Austria can also be seen in the international comparison. Over the last 20 years, 80 percent of the apartments have been built with funding; 50 percent of the total housing stock has been funded since 1945. It is therefore decisive to oppose all public advances, as they were made by IHS-chef Bernhard Felder, who wants to save €1.5 billion in the construction of housing, or also by Governor Liebscher, who is also too high to support housing. The promotion of housing is no longer to be thought away for the livability of living space. In this context, it is all the more reprehensible that the BUWOG should remove the public utility and thus allow the possibility of short-term budget holes to be stopped with proceeds from the sale of these apartments. That this sale was not addressed to the tenants, as it was then said, everyone knows in the meantime. [[Abg. Neudeck: There's the red propaganda to blame!]] For an apartment stock of over 60 000 apartments there are 500 requests from tenants on sale. This speaks for itself and will also be discussed in detail at the next item on the agenda. In any case, this transaction is a very short-term bonus for the budget and a long-term malus for the tenants. Since we all agree on the question on which a decision is to be taken today and the government parties have also recognised and professed the value and importance of housing public utility, you also have the opportunity to revise your mistakes they made in the BUWOG sale. That would be at least a very good start, which could lead you to follow the revision of many previous wrong decisions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10430	As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Sad to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10459	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am pleased that the services of the mutual benefit are out of discussion today. I hope it will stay that way for a very long time. It is undisputed that these cooperatives have played a significant role in rural development. I understand, of course, Mr Neudeck, in whose chest there seem to be two heartbeats. [[Abg. Neudeck: I am not a Siamese twin!]] You have to confess to that, but you're not so convinced of it. I understand that too. There are over 200 housing cooperatives that work perfectly. Mr Neudeck! In Lower Austria, there was one whose efficiency has left much to be desired. They don't exist anymore, according to my information. [[Abg. Neudeck: Shall I list you a few more examples from the area?]] It should, however, be stressed again and again when the Community is called into question – not in this law, but in general: A third of the apartments are built by these non-profit people. The essential thing about this is that it is the sedentary dwellings that are created there. Indeed, there is a great difference between the free housing market, which serves to acquire capital, to increase capital, and cooperatives which primarily have the housing needs of our population. Ladies and gentlemen! Much has happened in recent years, but we are not yet at the end of the road. The living need is exactly the same as it was. You must already be aware that your measures in the field of housing have created a nod in recent years. You must also be aware that your measures will make living increasingly difficult to finance, because you have simply used money, available income and left the population alone. Let us return to a way where living is not luxury, but a matter of course!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10513	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 192 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – It is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (78 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Use of Federal Housing Companies (136 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10567	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to Mrs Bures. The clock is set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10592	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance is clearly withdrawing his political responsibility – we know it from the last few days – and sends you, Mr State Secretary, as was the case in the Committee, where it is clear that you have not really moved in the matter. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: That's not true!]] There is a problem today that two and a half years ago a privatisation law was passed by ÖVP and FPÖ, according to which 61,800 dwellings should be released from the housing community. Today – two and a half years later – we are dealing with an implementing law. One could believe that now after two and a half years, the government parties have agreed on how and in what form they want to spoil the federal apartments, because it is not the case and was obviously not your intention that the federal apartments be sold to the tenants. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Sell!]] – We have seen that in the last two and a half years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] They are obviously trying to make these apartments worse, because everything remains open in the implementing law. The Secretary of State and his Minister of Finance, who is never there, can first sell them for themselves. Furthermore, if you do not succeed in implementing the law, so if you do not do what you have been doing for two and a half years, you can transfer it to the ÖIAG or the BIG. – Obviously, after two and a half years within the coalition, you do not even agree whether it should be the ÖIAG or the BIG. In addition, this law provides for a right of securitisation to bond investors, according to which the rents can be sold and invested in such a way. However, it is about a rental rate formation, as it is now in the law, which is cost-effective and where there is no additional income – even with the old building rents, Mr State Secretary, you have wrongly answered this in committee! This is a cost recovery principle. If you want to sell the rents to bond investors, then plan what you have announced in the media in recent weeks: massive rental increases in cooperative apartments! – That would really be a political scandal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It has also become clear that there is not much fixed in the sale process. The tenants will continue to be left uncertain about how high their rents are in the future, who is their homeowner in the future. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true! You're not sure again!]] The only thing fixed is high consulting costs: Fix is € 10.2 million in consulting costs to Lehman. [[Abg. Scheibner: You know that nothing changes in existing rents! Insurance!]] Fix is a lawyer's fee of €500 000. Fix is an expert cost of €180 000. And what is the result of the consultation? – The result of these many millioneurs’ discussions, which you have obviously given to ‘friends’, is that the future and current tenants do not know how their homes actually go on. – This is a political scandal! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Go!]] This is really something that this House will be working on for a long time. There will still be a long topic, as you can order discussions of €10 million, without there being a result here in Parliament without a call for tender, but only on the basis of the fact that the representative is a friend of the Minister of Finance. It will also be to discuss why the BUWOG’s apartments three months after a real estate investor, Mr. Plech – in reality Your financier – who has become Chairman of the Supervisory Board, will be sold. - That's incompatible. A real estate investor as Chairman of the Supervisory Board in the field of social housing is a clear incompatibility and you have the political responsibility to bear it! [[Abg. Scheibner: Who's this from?]] The sale of the state-owned housing companies is a very good example of how you privatize diletantically and that you unfortunately have private interests over the public interests and interests of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10719	As the next speaker, Mrs Fekter spoke. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10737	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Fears startle, insecure, consciously spread the untruth – that is currently opposition policy! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: The only one!]] Mrs Bures! You know very well: A change of ownership has no influence on the position of the tenants, and even a new owner cannot in any way modify the existing legal situation or intervene in lease contracts. So don't tell tenants constantly, there would be rental increases! [[Abg. Bures: It has all become more expensive!]] It is also secured by social housing as such, because it is indeed anchored in the WGG, that even in the case of a new rental, a once-in-a-life apartment in the non-profit area remains non-profit, according to the motto: once non-profit – always non-profit! Therefore, this scandalisation is not justified. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I am quite clear why the SPÖ is so “sure” about this federal house sale: I can still remember that the SPÖ has tried several times in the great coalition to tear these federal apartments under the nail itself. [[Abg. Scheibner: Aha!]] Mr Kurt Eder and also colleague Bures will be able to remember that there were initiatives again and again, after which, for example, the railway apartments were all called the Nominale – the Nominale! – the socialist community was supposed to have burned up. [[Abg. Scheibner: Look here! But now it will be critical!]] However, this gift to the SPÖ has prevented the ÖVP every time. That's why the SPÖ is still mad today that you didn't get that cheap at the time. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now we know each other!]] We do not want to spoil the federal apartments, but to use them in the best possible way in the sense of taxpayers. The Minister of Finance has been careful and very professional in this regard. The responsible company – that's exactly where I inquired! – has worked with 80 people for almost two years in the relevant societies and has developed the concept after which we can then award the recovery order. These experts have brought together both domestic and foreign know-how. To this end, we need to know that the Austrian Community Law is unique in the world and can therefore not be automatically assessed by any “thumen times pi” immediately. “Dumen mal Pi”, this is the method of SPÖ. It has never been able to deal with taxpayers and federal assets, and it has always been seen as a self-service shop. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: If you sell it for book value, you can't...!]] For this reason, a serious consultation and a real in-depth and thorough examination of this entire complex matter is necessary. – It is not just about the apartments and the legal status of these apartments. It is also about the properties in connection with these apartments, the unbuilt land, the shops, the commercial parks that are currently being cared for by the community, and it is about the area that is no longer non-profit. The advisory team has so far done very good work, although not yet complying with the full advisory agreement. It is therefore from my point of view a lot of hot air of opposition when it criticizes the advisers. Indeed, the recent media reports have already included the fact that Mr Finanzminister's previous consultation agreements were well-established money, that the discussions were well-invested because the taxpayer saved millions from them. This can be read in the last edition of ‘NEWS’. The scandalization you are carrying out from the opposition here with these advisory agreements, ladies and gentlemen, is, internationally, not a reputation, but, quite the contrary, I, coming from the economy, consider it scandalous that you are disavowing serious consulting companies in such a way. Yes, do you believe that 80 people over two years of age have turned their thumbs and that these concepts, which later saved the taxpayer money, were for nothing? [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Only truly simple spirits believe in knowing everything themselves and not need any advice.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10882	Mr Eder spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10903	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Mrs Fekter claimed that the social democrats wanted these housing companies, such as BUWOG, WAG and railway companies, to become a nominal prize. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes!]] – That’s wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, that's right!]] Rather, it is true that the social democrats wanted to transfer the railway companies Villach, Linz and Vienna to the nominal capital in the Vienna railway industry, which would mean that all tenants in these apartments would be their own owners as cooperatives and would not have been delivered to the rental sharks you will now deliver them. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Get back into a red society!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You wanted to tear this under the nail!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10993	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11011	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are used to the fact that the Minister of Finance has repeatedly stressed that the state is a bad owner. However, we are not used to the fact that Mr Finanzminister or ÖVP members want to deal badly with ownership. But it seems that we have to be used to the fact that the Minister of Finance is more than sluggish about the state's ownership of its assets. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And that is the point that is central to me in the question of the sale or exploitation of the five federal housing companies. Mr Finanzminister! You own, manage, let you manage, or you have the responsibility for a fortune of over 62 000 apartments. These 62 000 apartments have financed generations. This is a social-political capital, which is a site-political capital, which is ultimately also an economic-political capital, and you are wasting this capital as a property representative by imagining to sell it far below the value of investors. – This is the critical point number one for us. You yourself – you only need to copy – said in 2002 that you would be worth the €2.2 billion; that is worth these apartments. I heard they're worth more. And now you read repeatedly that you're happy if you'd get 600 million €, while it was originally 2.2 billion €. That's the big span you're giving up on. This is a renunciation, that is a renunciation of capital, that is a sluggish dealing with state property, with the assets of the Republic. Colleagues have already said that you intend to serve our family silver more or less cheaply to investors. Now for details: Mr Minister, I understand that you want to reduce government debt, but I do not understand that you want to reduce government debt with a loss of property. Check with Mr. Muzicant, who certainly knows himself in the real estate sector! He has repeatedly noted that – from the real estate point of view – the federal apartments cannot be sold at these dumping prices. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Minister, in your legislative text, you may well have the requirement that you should sell as much as possible. Only: What is best possible from the current market perspective? The best possible way to do this financial transaction is – you admit it yourself – to be 600 to 800 million €. In our view, housing policy is completely wrong, because it is a housing-political capital of social housing, which can be made more efficient for itself, which could still provide people with favourable housing in future generations. For us, the whole thing is also fiscally wrong. I can therefore present you with a second bill, not just your account of the original value and of the value that you can now redeem. The second invoice, Mr Finanzminister, is: Look Once again, turn to the dividends you delivered in 2001! This was taken together by the WAG and the BUWOG – you are supposed to understand this from the ÖVP, you, Mrs. Fekter, as an economic operator – € 89 million dividend, deducted once a year. I asked myself: An annual dividend output of € 50 million alone from the BUWOG and from the WAG would be possible. I'm not talking about the railway companies. Now, just as the Court of Auditors recommends, you'll expect this against the interest savings you have if you pay €800 million back on the basis that you've sold the apartments. Look at the interest situation! At 2.5 percent interest, you will save interest of perhaps 25 to a maximum of € 30 million per year. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We don't just want to sell out the apartments, we also want to sell assets!]] It's a bad business. And you, Mr. Finanzminister, as the one who always wants to be a good businessman, you do not spend at least €25 million each year – I say, simply under the line. That's bad economic policy, that's bad ownership policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Minister, we do not want to issue a free letter to you for this “best possible sale”, possibly via ÖIAG, possibly via BIG, possibly simply as the Lehman Brothers recommend, or possibly for a securitisation of the rights of profit. Mr Finanzminister, you will not receive a free letter from us, because the procedures in the finding of the lender, the processes in the design process, the processes in the working group, the transactions in this award commission are questionable to us, highly questionable. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That was all serious and transparent!]] – Not serious, not serious, Mrs Colleague! Would you call it serious if a gentleman who does business himself in the real estate market, the chairman and the sales involved? Would you think it would be good if a Mr. Karl Heinz Plech, who has always offered his services as a FPÖ sympathizer, took this sales handling centrally? [[Abg. Scheibner: He's in the Supervisory Board! But you already know who is operating in a company?]] This is politically incompatible for me. This is politically incompatible for me. Second allegation, very concrete in awarding: Why has Karlheinz Muhr must communicate these Lehman Brothers? [[Abg. Neudeck: Karl Ernst!]] Why did you turn on a friend to come to Lehman Brothers, which meant cost to you? Costs of over €10 million, which are extremely unnecessary, Mr Neudeck. You'd have gotten it cheaper, there were low-cost bidders. You took Lehman Brothers because they sold apartments in Italy once, but in a completely different context. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is a slander, Mrs. Colleague!]] Watch out, Mrs Fekter! As a company leader, you would never take advantage of an advisory agreement if you had your own people. The Minister of Finance has a “super department” in the Ministry, which can assess this. The Minister of Finance has the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft. There he is the owner. He may want to deal with this, because the whole thing could perhaps be regulated in line with Maastricht, and because he still had an advantage in terms of budgetary policy. [[Calls and calls between ODP and SPÖ MPs.]] It would be possible to talk about the BIG. What do you need Lehman Brothers for? You know yourself in the international investment area anyway. You can drive around the world as a real estate agent yourself. You do it often, that you are on the road in terms of self-marketing. Marketing You also the federal housing companies, if you want to sell them already, but don't believe us that we accept that you are throwing 10 million € more or less out of the window for a concept that is not at all necessary, because the know-how is anyway among the companies. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Only simple spirits believe you don't need advice!]] The WAG has it, the BUWOG has it. The know-how is very probably also in the ministry and at the BIG. You don't need to resort to Lehman Brothers. Investors can thus get themselves on the free market. No problem! Only: Our housing policy approach is that at this price we are not willing to produce the federal apartments and the federal housing companies, because international investors are only interested in the building stock business, they are interested in obtaining building rights from us. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Tell the truth! You don't want the sale, so do everything bad!]] That's why they might want to pay. And domestic investors want to make profits on the housing market. However, we see a possibility that the state itself, that the societies in the state ownership itself make an offensive, future-looking and socially favourable housing policy with these profits. This is for us the task, but not this debt reduction policy on devils comes out, although one would get more to dividends than it would cost on interest, and not the use of the international investment market. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Therefore, for us Greens, it is a key question of how to deal with state property, how to deal with millions and billions – including in euros – and how to deal with contracts that are highly dubios for us. The Commission, the working group, the advisory agreement, the mediation work – you are in there somehow. This is for us in the Committee on Inquiry that we need to be very informed. At the end of the day, I can only think of you: You can also read in the newspapers how these transactions of the sale of the federal housing companies are already described in advance! Read it in the “standard” – last Saturday it was, I think: ‘Berlusconisation’! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, your propaganda printed them!]] That's to say, the friends are working together. The rule of law is still in place in Austria pro forma, but I dare to express my doubts here in the case of the forgivenesss you have made. Minister! In this respect, in dealing with state assets especially in the socially sensitive area of apartments, you do not have the confidence of us. I would like to declare that quite clearly. That is why we reject this act. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would therefore like to ask you to do this: Please wait at least for the Court of Auditors report, the Court of Auditors report on the WAG, the Court of Auditors report on the BUWOG! And count again the dividends against the interest savings! A very simple subtraction, Minister of Finance. I'm curious if you're capable of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11179	The next speaker was Mr Bucher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11199	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are currently discussing very important issues in the Austrian Convention such as the reorganisation of the State's competence, such as administrative simplification, as well as the future core tasks of the State. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: He hasn't started yet!]] I believe that, at least from our point of view, it is also undisputed that it cannot be one of the key tasks of the state that we provide for apartments that the officials, the federal servants in our country inhabit. [[Abg. Eder: This is, of course, a key task of the state!]] [[Abg. Eder: This is a completely stupid thing, Mr President, what you are saying, Mr President! This is, of course, one of the core tasks! Who if not the state should do that?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] – If you look into the past, there has been a time during the post-war period when it was very important to provide apartments for cheap apartments, when the federal staff have only a low income. But in today's times, something has changed in this area. [[Abg. Eder: You have a nice view that you pass on to the people!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the strategic objective of the Federal Government is to give tenants the opportunity to acquire their own homes, a very useful and correct one, even if the offer of the Federal Government to the tenants was not accepted to the extent that it was originally expected. Only 5 percent of the apartments have found sales to the tenants. This is certainly due to the fact that the price of the apartments is 20 percent below the market value, but in comparison to the rents that are paid, it appears relatively high. Individual divestments, as they were originally controlled by SPÖ, are not suitable, because we know that the transaction costs for the settlement of individual sales, for example for marketing and for parifications, are uneconomic practices that cause the process enormously expensive and cause a very high administrative burden. Therefore, it seems very useful to us that the Federal Government has commissioned experts to carry out an assessment of the properties, to evaluate the portfolio in its market capitalization and to show sales variants that allow for the maximisation of the proceeds from the BUWOG companies. I do not fully understand the argument of the Social Democrats, because they themselves have activated in 1997 the use of the BUWOG apartments or the ESG in Villach, Linz and Vienna, namely the nominal value that we have already been reported. At that time, they wanted to sell to the nominal value of 180 million schilling, although they knew that the total value of the apartments had accounted for more than 12 billion schilling. That would have been about 1.5 percent of the traffic value they had redeemed at the time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Because you criticise the Federal Minister for this advisory effort, I can also tell you that in relation to the total income, which is expected for the total 62,000 apartments and which will be between € 600 million and € 1 billion, the entire advisory effort will move in an order of 0.8 percent. [[Abg. Oils: That's what it's all about?]] This is at international level. And if you realize that this is possible personal preferences, it is very, very thin, because in the matter I would like to say that the Federal Minister has acted correctly. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You need a Commission Commission!]] Counselling and consulting services are quite common internationally. They have also used this form of advisory services, for example in the sale of the Telekom-Austria shares to Telecom Italia. They know that at that time the advisory services of the competent consultants received 200 000 S monthly, plus 5 million schilling in the form of a final commission, which was then the head of the cabinet of Federal Chancellor Franz Vranitzky, Karl Krammer. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Look! Look!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Listen! Listen!]] That was not a reason for you to criticize at the time, but that was quite all right. We see this differently, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to briefly outline the position of the Freedom Party: We are concerned – and this is what we are talking about – to come from the promotion of objects, as it was operated in the past, to a promotion of subjects, in the interest of those concerned. We are concerned about the welfare of individuals in this matter and not about the welfare of societies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11347	The next speaker was Mr Eder. The clock is set to 10 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11365	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! If one follows this debate here, one has the impression that the government parties once again lose all social dimension. I am more and more wondering about the Freedom Party that has always pretended to be there for the “little man. ” This policy, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, is nothing more to be seen here. [[Abg. Oils: You are already very small, the liberals!]] – You are very small, a very small party, and now you have forgotten the “little man”. [[Abg. Neudeck: That's because you're not a little man!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What's this about? One of my previous speakers said that the state has nothing to do with housing policy, housing and housing, and he should say goodbye. I can only say: If that is true, any social dimension has been lost. This is more than a scandal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Matter applause!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: It doesn't matter well!]] It is not about making housing policy, it is about ideological measures to impose money on tenants, and above all about doing so in a way that I have never noticed in the Second Republic. You also need to look at chronologically how the whole thing has developed. – I don’t want to talk about the Lehman Brothers and the related costs; you can read everything in the newspapers. However they have been commissioned, this is all very questionable; it has already been addressed. A law firm has received €506,000 – for a result equal to zero; nothing has yet come out. Or: Two university professors received 179 040 €. Or: Lehman Brothers got €10.2 million to make an estimate – and that's the best thing! –: The BUWOG would have a value of 600 million to 1.2 billion €, it was said. Mr Neudeck was probably able to shake this bandwidth out of his sleeve. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you would have been excited! There was something going on!]] We would not have needed Lehman Brothers to establish such a value. Let such a company make an estimate in this bandwidth is ridiculous! Ladies and gentlemen! However, there are still charges for consultants, mediation commissions, funds for a number of other things; we will learn and hear all about the Court of Auditors. But the bad thing about the whole thing is always the claim of the ÖVP that the whole thing didn't have to pay the tenants that nothing changed for the tenants at all. Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder why Mr Großruck is very much in the ‘economist’: ÖVP retreaters when renting up! – You pulled the emergency brake, colleague Großruck! [[Abg. Grandruck: That's wrong!]] You have rightly pulled the emergency brake, because what was the background? – A cost-effective undertaking does not buy a market-oriented investor. This cannot be done, because an investor operating on the market – who will be entitled to rights with colleague Neudeck – must make a certain minimum amount of income and receive commissions. And if that's not given, then the whole thing doesn't count. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And because it doesn't count, you use the following trick: One tries to find buyers; Lehman Brothers: low rating; you may already have a buyer somewhere in the Talon. And when the deal has gone over the stage, I am trying to change the WGG, for example, so that a negotiation paper from FPÖ/ÖVP has come into my hands that this society will become a yield company. If you make income, you're gonna have to pay for those revenues. Mr Scheibner! What do you think the revenues will be paid? The Minister of Finance, who is sitting behind me in a fine way on the government bank? Or will the tenants have to pay the proceeds? Do you know who to pay? - The tenants! [[Abg. Scheibner: No, nothing changes! You know exactly that they don't change anything!]] Now I'm telling you which tenants mostly live in BUWOG apartments. There, for example, are policemen living there. Do you know the amount of income of police officers? Do you know what it means to have families for which you are so committed and then hurl the rental prices for new rentals according to your paper? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is panic!]] [[Abg. Großruck: Spirit train is being driven with the people!]] That's not wrong! You'd like that to be wrong. But that's this crafty plan that's behind the whole thing: One sells a well-connected, best-organized housing company to friends to then place it with a private person in such a way that the banks or the real estate investors make income. Income at the expense of the tenants is simply a pigry, and we reject that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And this is happening here, ladies and gentlemen. We advocate that not the “little” police, not the nurses already quoted today, who have to serve day and night, who have to pay the bill. We want these people to continue living in a cost-oriented home that they can afford. What you're doing here leads to uncertainty. This goes so far that people who are still working today and will later retire can no longer afford these apartments. You should also look at the corresponding newspaper articles: Retirers of tomorrow will get home problems. You will have housing problems because according to your policy, rents are rising enormously, pensions are being reduced – and in between, people are standing and can no longer afford to do so. This is a crazy policy, an insane policy that we do not want to have anything to do with and that we will also reject! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the financial committee, for example – also a strange situation – Mr Finz, who has previously claimed that he is very well aware of this, has explained that there is no special dividend for the owner by the BUWOG group, the railway companies and the WAG. Now I'm asking: Is there really no special dividends – or was that just a mistake? You hear different things. One hears, for example, that in 2002, the BUWOG probably had to issue a special dividend in the order of around €100 million. Yeah, who's paying these 100 million? – The 60,000 families who live in it pay for it, colleague Scheibner! The “little” police officers, the nurses, the ones we get from rural areas, so that they work in Vienna, which you still have to earn a lot of money to which you have raised the energy prices to which you impose taxes! [[Abg. Scheibner: Now you have to stop with the “little” police! They have social rents, and that remains the case!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They're paying for this, colleague Scheibner! These 60,000 families are paying 100 million € to the subtle gentleman behind me! Mr Finz – he is also a Vienna politician, what I can do; we are also very proud of it, and I hope you will remain in Vienna until the next elections – said in the Financial Committee: This time, no special dividends are taken up by the BUWOG and the WAG. – Is that right, Mr. Finz? Don't anyone be taken in? [[Secretary of State Dr. Finz: I have something else...!]] - Is it being lifted? He said it differently again! In fact, it is true that this time he wants to remove a dividend that is much higher than even the result of the BUWOG. That is to say, one goes to the substance of the company, and so one goes into the substance of the company, because one has the intention of selling the BUWOG and the WAG as cheaply as possible, with the background that one has already worked on a paper that I happen to have been played in the hands of what one wants to change the WGG, and that the special dividends do not matter at all. This you have earned three times if you carry out the rental increases in the form you want to carry them out. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a game you can see through. This is a game which, in my opinion, is at the expense of small incomes, and such a game is actually a shame to a government! And here we have a Minister of Finance, who participates in this shame, who is in this shame, who knows all the personal best that play in this game. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do yourself a little moderate in the choice of words!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: He knows you well too! It's nothing bad if you know who!]] There is a Mr. Plech in the Supervisory Board of the BUWOG; he knows it best. He also knows the Lehman Brothers very well. Lehman Brothers also works for companies that he has previously known well, companies he now says no longer needs to withdraw. - No, no, no, no, no, What do you need a contract if you want to tear the VOEST under the nail and then perhaps be a new Director-General without a contract and so on? Retirement agreements and declarations of relinquishment are the highest admissions of guilt, but in reality this does not have any relevant meaning at all, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Look out for a little laugh, my colleague. You already laughed a little tight on Sunday on TV. Her laugh, when Mr Matznetter argued, was no longer real. I know you personally well and I know: If you really laugh, your facial expression is different. But on Sunday you've looked a little funny, and you know why you've looked funny? – Because You're an economist and you know what's going on here in the Austrians. I read in a newspaper, for example: Please wait! Prefabricated lists for cheap apartments are getting longer. – What does that mean? This simply means that the continuity in residential construction, construction and thus in the construction industry is broken down. And if this continuity breaks down, then you will need several years to build it up again because the construction industry companies change their production; and if they change, it will take years again until you can get into a residential production. We have already experienced a phase together in 1990 in a coalition, in which we have very probably needed and made an economic change in housing policy. We have made a housing programme from 1990 to 1998, which has enabled people to afford their homes again. What you're doing now is social uncertainty. This means that in the future there will only be expensive apartments, and that means fear. There is a man here who has the main responsibility for it and who is loosely involved because he does not know this fear. He comes from a good house, has fallen on the butter side of life, has been able to study and has so far persisted that it has always been about himself and never about other people. Such people, ladies and gentlemen, have lost nothing in politics!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11626	The next speaker was Mr Grossruck. The watch is set to 4 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11645	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! To sell the state housing companies, there were the wildest and most bold opposition rumors, and one of the rumors and fairy tales was just out here: the colleague Eder. I appeal to the Austrians: Don't believe the nonsense that's being softened here today: that the government wants to increase rental prices, that it wants to double them, or that the sale of the apartments is done! [[Abg. Eder: You are doing this all the time!]] Dear Austrian! Don't believe the nonsense that's being softened today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is all kinds, ladies and gentlemen, to accuse us, we wanted to raise rents! The opposite is the case: We want to achieve through a corresponding housing policy that rents will continue to be manageable in the future, and this guarantees the two government parties also the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Contradict with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You can get out of here so often: If you say ten or twenty times the untruth, it remains the untruth and does not become the truth, even if you repeat it so often. Ladies and gentlemen! What's going on? – The Minister of Finance has the legal mandate – that was decided in the last legislative period – to use the state-owned housing companies. The state – that was the Preambel at the time – is not a builder, not a house manager, not a housing broker; that makes private much better than the state. The State has the task of setting conditions – through housing promotion, through tax measures – so that housing is manageable. These tasks fulfil the best and full satisfaction of the federal states. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians have to spend on average 18 percent of their income on housing costs. This puts us in fourth place across the EU. Behind us are Ireland, Portugal and Greece. In Portugal and Greece, we know that these countries are favourably favoured, because the rental costs alone do not represent the cost of living. There comes the operating costs, garbage, canal, water charges. And it is precisely the municipality of Vienna that is a bright example of how it works to increase housing costs over operating costs. Just think about the garbage charges! [[Abg. Eder: Who increases the garbage charges?]] – The municipality of Vienna has greatly increased it! We want to find a solution to market our own apartments. They complain, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition, that this first thrust was not successful. This is no wonder when the whole left propaganda machine in Austria – started by the workers' chambers, via the SPÖ, via its neighboring groups – is on the other hand, and says: Dear tenant! Get in the ghostway with us! Get along, and then we'll be afraid together! – Then you can't expect optimism. You're to blame for the tenants being insecure. They're to blame for the tenants' fears. And that's what you have to answer. But we give the Austrian tenants hope. Ladies and gentlemen! We are in the privatisation of apartments, we are also in the privatisation of other institutions, and I can make the following request in this context: [[Abg. Eder shows the speaker a newspaper article entitled “Rising Rents. ”]] – This is the VOEST Alpine, because we are in the privatisation! [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a topic of Upper Austria, ladies and gentlemen, and I am finally returning to Upper Austria, which I have already greatly praised today. I want to do this in the form of a four-liner: In Austria, there is a country that is led by the best hand. For over fifty years, the ÖVP has been giving the tone. The unemployment rate is falling because it is not governed by the left. The economy is booming and growing and flourishing, as you can see from all figures. The best thing is, when I compare it, it's also Upper Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11764	The motion for a resolution by Mr Großruck, which has just been drawn up by Mr Stummvoll, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11786	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Even if you still refuse to do so a hundred times – it would have been necessary for a committee of inquiry in many Causae; one you have only strangled – and try to turn your strange four- and other-goers over it, this will become more and more your problem. Versions But please ask the house with it, because this thing may be too serious! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] The item on the agenda deals with the privatisation of the federal apartments, in short terms. In this possibly economic and social false step, it is already a whole potpourri, a collection of misdeeds, which can no longer be random, in a certain sequence and sequence that seeks to match them. What has happened so far in this attempt to knock out the federal apartments – you almost have to say –? At the request of a Mr Muhr, we will still have to go into this – an American connection that wants to know exactly the housing conditions in Austria in order to be able to say – I say carefully – what the value of these federal apartments to be sold out should be. I tell you, you will find in Austria many of those who can do this out of the state better than anyone who is sitting in America. That's for sure! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The best proof of this is yes – and then take the position, Federal Minister – that this consultant firm, Lehman Brothers, obviously – and caught up in it! – in Austria, some subcontractors have to serve again. Yeah, what else? This may not be so bad in itself if there are awards to which the contracting entity employs subcontractors. But please, how was that in the tender? Is that all clear? How was the call? How did this award come about? If you have already read the Court of Auditors' raw report, which I accept – perhaps in Bali – you will have seen that the Court of Auditors has already recognised a number of misdeeds up to now – history has not even started properly. Why? – Because even the selection of these consulting companies poses major problems. You already need evaluation commissions for the award of these contracts. You need consultants to come to consultants, and any commissions that guarantee the alleged objectivity for this story. That's not true in the back and in the front! And yet you've managed to control all sorts of suspicions. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This whole aura, this whole collection of consultants in concentric circles around your cabinet – in fact a friendly business circle – has not used you. You've been caught in this thing! 10 million €, 140 million schilling, for consultants who cannot afford much in the matter who have to serve other consultants again, subcontractors. How high is the margin of the gentlemen of Lehman? Skill You're saying that? What's the margin? And at the end of the question – we pick him up again –: What role does Mr Muhr play? You say in an interview, you confess to this friendship. – That's all right, of course. I just wonder if you continue to confess that you are starting a writing procedure on call, which is exactly what comes out; and then you always use the reproach of “objective evaluation commissions” – we already know it from the Eurofighter – to indicate that the cheapest bidder is not the best bidder. – We already know that! But please, what is Lehman Brothers' best bidder on this question? At the call of Mr Muhr, they were included in the invitation to tender. You, Mr Minister, will have to present all these things. Right now we're keeping up with the relationship: Muhr, Lehman Brothers, Plech – we will come to speak to him as well – in a proposal for a law that we are dealing with here, perhaps packed in the ÖIAG or in the BIG, so that the apartments there may be better knocked out. Congratulations! Where are the €10 million, and for what purpose have you made this award? I can only recognize peculiarities and misdemeanors, but you, Mr Minister, will certainly say again that this is so common in international comparison. It may be that fees for consulting services – we did not criticise this at the beginning, you may remember – do not have to be criticised a priori. But when closer consideration shows how this award came about and what these supposed advisers do, good night! This darkness will have you light up here once! But maybe today you can still do something. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You have no problem at all with this – even this pattern is going through; probably you did it again, as in other cases – that Mr. Plech takes a massive place in several supervisory councils, among others in the BIG; but we are now at the federal apartments. He is in several supervisory councils in this field – but even real estate brokers, themselves completely interwoven with the buyer and interest scene in Austria. I'll tell you: That is completely incompatible! Minister! How do you get these incompatibilities either (a) themselves, or (b) do not at least stop them? - I don't understand! Confession You here color how you stand with these people! As we now know, you are not as unknown as you are in your relationship as a minister; I add this because we have often had problems here to understand how you are trying to present the separation between private and public interest. This has so far only resulted in the fact that you have landed forward in the next larger fat nap on every attempt to escape. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Maybe you're doing something different today, but I'm not very confident anymore. – I’m just saying this pattern is recognizable, and it repeats itself. I will not go through all the points that we have already expressed to you as Minister on the occasion of a mistrust request. But four areas were important to me, and one of them I have now addressed. And everywhere, Minister of State, there is a similar pattern. The next case is the ÖIAG and the privatization of the VOEST Alpine in a very specific context. They do not want to know anything about the negotiations of the ÖIAG Board members, who may not even have done so voluntarily in this pludden manner. They don't seem like it when you listen closely to them. They're in a bad situation. The question is who has to answer that question. At any rate, the ÖIAG Board of Directors met with representatives of Magna; whether this is called "Minerva" or not, does nothing about it. A good naming is more for your marketing department. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] But you don't want to know about it? You, who have been granted a privatisation order by the Federal Government, in which more or less harmlessly a passage is found in the middle of the provisions, after which you want to take the privatisation steps in close coordination with the Board of Directors?- Oh, my God! First of all, this is against the share law, and second: Is that your idea of depoliticization? Is that it? – This is for privatisation, that is all about the matter, about how this country is going about. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter and Abg. Dr. Drinkl:]] Minister! In this way you can then easily claim the state is a bad entrepreneur. He's never done anything as bad as here, I'll give you the right. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] They have secured the right to influence and to participate in a way that may be very worrying by law. But we must not be surprised. They themselves announced here in 2000 – we can well remember – from the government bank the final depoliticization of national policy and the ÖIAG holding by inventing something that has already come across our scepticism. It was said that ÖIAG's Supervisory Board is renewing itself. – That was almost a threat! First of all, we only found friends of Mr Prinzhorn, Mr President-in-Office. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Potential people!]] That is no longer going to be disputed, and I believe he will not deny the friendships either. Be it! Even then, of course, a consultant company was interconnected – by chance with loud relations in these circles. Don't worry about it, too! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: defamation!]] But the Supervisory Board according to ÖIAG law “renews itself”. – And where did that lead? It has led to Mr. Wolf becoming Supervisory Board of Magna in the previous year. I do not know how much the Supervisory Board has renewed itself. You, Mr Minister, have not yet contradicted a “profile” article of last week. Maybe that hasn't been delivered in Bali, but please take a position today! – It is believed that Mr Heinzel, ÖIAG Chairman of the Supervisory Board – he deserves a small defense at this point – has resisted this step. He could count one and one together and knew that this could be a conflict of interest. You have not only prevented this, but in this article, which is obviously very well-founded, it is noted that Mr. Wolf has only come to the Supervisory Board on your massive business. But “the Supervisory Board is renewing itself.” That's your understanding of it – yes, work of art, if you already had the friends sitting there! Nevertheless: Even these friends have become Suspect. You didn't want to deal with it, but you've gotten through. – Congratulations, that’s “depoliticization”! The state is in this case a bad entrepreneur, and one could have done nothing worse to VOEST than what this Federal Government is now presenting in this area. What the Federal Government is doing now would have led to this whole matter – if it had not flown up in time, as it is so beautifully said – that both the company's unity and – and only quite in the long term – the company's location in the current, proven way would have been massively threatened by your commitment and with your tolerance. And then get out of the ÖVP here and make cheap Upper Austria election. If you prefer to go inside and judge the situation freshly, then you may also come to a different judgment! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But to what has happened here, Mr President, Mr Mitterlehner, I can only say: Yes, the state has never played business – to the detriment of taxpayers, but also to the damage to the location for Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: For the benefit of taxpayers!]] - Wait! We will continue to talk about your ideas about location policy and Eurofighter. I would just like to go further into these wild ties of complete incompatibilities and mention the “unity for the promotion of the New Economy” which has now come to be saddened. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But the Eurofighters...!]] That's all the BUWOG, because it's the same people in there all over this story! Mr Plech, Mr Hochegger, all of them are interconnected, and everyone is pushing each other to the orders. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] And who's that supposed to be? – From the cabinet of the Minister! That's this government's way of life! They were excited when we discovered the "Euroteam" scandal, and they clap firmly. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Yes, art. Now this is being carried out again in a more frequent and worse way. I wouldn't have thought it possible. [[Prolonged condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I would not have given this to Mr Grasser, but we have been taught to a worse person. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Therefore, you should agree to the setting up of an investigation committee and not constantly call for something in between which you obviously do not want to know or have no idea. Listen At least you can't. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Deputies Dr. Fekter and Dr. Drinkl: On the matter!]] This association has something to do with the BUWOG because it is about who is giving donations here. I would be interested if the potential beneficiaries from this BUWOG deal were perhaps donors for the New Economy Association of Mr Finanzminister. Why is this very important and relevant? – Because no one has held down any less than Mr. Lorenz Fritz: We gave them €175,000. But that was it, stone and clear. He himself, Fritz, but brings €220 000 into play. Why? – Because he knows of individual donations, outside of the Industrial Union, from other individual companies and industrialists, perhaps from those who are not organized in the Industrial Union, who cannot perceive the possibility to misuse the Industrial Union as a fund-laundering plant under Austrian Party Law and to transfer the funds there. [[Abg. Oils: Ah!]] Perhaps Mr Rumpold was there? I say this with “perhaps” and with question mark. But why do you have to let this happen, Minister of Finance? - I don't usually go that way. But in this case you have been missing it for weeks, the club that bears your name, among other things – Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser, the first club purpose – to ask to disclose all donations. An enormously important process and in the light of these accusations a long-needed step. Why has he been abandoned? Explain! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] If Mr Rumpold is in question as a donor, it is clear in what way. This is about Mr Rumpold, who, as a lobbyist of EADS, said: It's like Uganda, nothing goes now without a gift box! – That was before the type decision – and almost afterwards he announced that! Now we are at the last point, Minister of State Grasser – and we are now not dealing with interception details, but with what is already a sole reason for withdrawal, namely that you, and I can see that Parliament has misinformed your appointments with EADS representatives. You, Federal Minister Grasser, have made several similar or equal statements in response to questions from the Greens and the Social Democrats – and you have made an appointment completely silent at all, namely those of the 23rd century. April 2002, in the hottest phase of the type decision, when the evaluation committee had just withdrawn to deliberations, that assessment commission which has shown a thin outcome. Ladies and gentlemen! If you ask the members of the evaluation committee today, they will say: We wanted to make a political decision, that is why this short result! – And politics has decided, and it has negotiated with EADS before the invitation to tender, and also – as it turns out now – during the call for tender. But you, Federal Minister Grasser, have kept this to Parliament. And when you – once again! – were caught in fresh deed, your Mr. Cabintschef, Mr. Winkler, had to go out and say: That was an automobile industry date! – Well, that’s why you’ve been silent before, because cars in Austria are obviously subject to state secret! I congratulate you! You, Federal Minister Grasser, have lied to Parliament – and you will be held accountable for that! [[Lively contradiction and intercessions with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Ordinary call!]] You've kept this appointment quiet! [[In the case of the Greens and the SPÖ, as well as ongoing calls to the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Then you said, Minister of Finance, with great "liability": Yes, even after the type decision I have, of course, negotiated! and so on; we know it all. That was at a time when the negotiations with EEAS had long since to be terminated! Finally, Minister Grasser, open up the contents of your so-called negotiations and contract texts – and you do not have legal authority – next charge! – not going along with the entering into a 2-billion-dollar commitment of the Republic without a financial authority – and this against the intentions of the House here! [[Objection to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What do you think, Minister of Finance, why is federal budgetary law at all?- Oh, my God! What do you think there is?- Oh, my God! – These processes are deeply in need of information! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You, Federal Minister Grasser, will, once a committee of inquiry on this issue will meet, also have to answer for your own intervention on a regular basis, as noted in the BMLV! This was listed in the BMLV; I'm saving you this list now, but you'll have to give it information! That's why – but not just that! – on the basis of this chain of errors and for many other reasons, which cannot even be mentioned here for reasons of time, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Minister of State Grasser, an invitation: If you would like to give us your balance sheet "Back and prospects with Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser ”! Back and back views! – Out and back, I can only say: Rids and withdrawals. Federal Minister Grasser, you should know what you have to do!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12119	Mr Magistrate. Kogler's resolution, drawn up by Members Cap, Kogler, friends and friends, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Kogler, you have said literally, during your statement to the Government Bank: “You, Federal Minister Grasser, have lied to Parliament...!” – I give you a call for order. Mr Mag, Minister of Finance, spoke from the government bank. Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12147	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. Since, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I can only speak for 5 minutes now and am therefore somewhat limited in time to deal with the accusations made by Mr Kogler, I can assure you, Mr Schieder, that I will speak again. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Afterwards you can talk anyway!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now I would like to focus briefly on the award procedure of housing companies – and then reply to Mr Kogler, on the motion for a reluctance. First of all: to tender for the federal housing companies. As you, Mr Kogler, blame us so much, you should also know in detail how serious, how practical, how exemplary we have been on this issue. In January 2002, this tender was published and published in the Official Journal of the European Communities and in the Official Journal of the Vienna Newspaper. A Commission was also set up in January 2002, consisting of 11 members. These include: the two board members of the companies concerned, a real estate expert, the head of the GesmbH federal procurement, one member of my cabinet and the cabinet of Mr. Alfred Finz, two department head of the Federal Ministry of Finance, one lawyer, two university professors as external experts, especially in the area of contract and procurement law and the business sector, in order to ensure objectivity and transparency to the greatest possible extent. Furthermore, an award procedure was carried out across the EU – and, of course, also under the Federal Procurement Act. Publications were published in the EU Official Journal as well as in the “Vienna Newspaper”. We have conducted a two-stage negotiation procedure. In this negotiation procedure, which provides for three binding tenders to be made by law, we have invited five applicants to draw up a corresponding offer. In the negotiation procedure, in which no formalised opening of tenders is required, we have opened the offers under notary supervision and with logging in order to ensure optimal transparency and equal treatment. We have accompanied the awards with an 11-member award commission, and we have carried out the examination and evaluation of the offers objectively and comprehensiblely by these experts. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Throughout the award procedure, we have paid close attention to fully complying with the principles of procurement law, in particular objective and objectively understandable basis for decision-making and evaluation. We have protocols that prove that we have acted objectively and objectively in our decisions, especially with regard to the Commission meetings. We have strictly complied with the legal deadlines, the notification, the notification obligations of the Federal Procurement Act, have made the award decision, the selection of the best bidder by the award commission – and the contract has been signed by the BMF, namely by the competent department. I would therefore like to say to you: There was exemplary correctness, without intervention, without any appeal to this award decision. – The result gives us the right: This is a pattern valid, an exemplary award! On the content and purpose of this sale of the federal apartments I will comment after the examination of the urgent request. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, on the motion for a resolution or on the accusations of Mr Kogler. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at today’s issue of the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, you will recognize the Entlarvende if the managing SPÖ Klubobmann Cap says: [[The speaker holds the relevant edition of the “Salzburger Nachrichten” with a portrait of Abg. Dr. Cap in height]] ‘SPÖ hopes for new elections’. ‘The fall of Grassers is only a means for the SPÖ’. Furthermore, according to the ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’: “You hope for the finish of Schüssels and the end of Black-Blue, says Klubobmann Cap.” Ladies and gentlemen! Here is an opposition that has given up on matters, which criminalizes, polemizes – there a federal government with an excellent current account: two budgets, pension reform, tax reform, and a discharge of the population begins! [[Abg. Oils: You do it!]] We will not let ourselves be hurt and will continue our successful path! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: Cheap polemics!]] Among the methods you use: This is nothing but the conscious discreditation of a person! You're throwing, you're doing bad! But They disqualify themselves with this dirty political campaign itself. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Here you go!]] [[Contradict with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I emphasize: I have told Parliament the truth at every stage! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] Nothing of what you say, Mr Kogler, is true. I'm going to reject that again! I have nothing to blame for. On the contrary: The independent authorities will prove that your campaign will collapse in itself.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12295	I'm asking for the final sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12311	Finally, ladies and gentlemen: I will continue and prove to you that we have managed perfectly. They're camping, they're criminalizing you. I'm telling you, that's too little, but it won't be enough. We're working, we're going to be to prove worthy of the trust of the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12343	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 7 of the agenda so that the urgent request for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Before I give Mr Cap the floor to business, I welcome the chairman of the national conference, Mr Ddr. Herwig van Staa, very cordial. [[General condolences.]] Klubobmann, Member of Parliament, spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12376	Mr President. On the other hand, I would strongly protest that the Federal Minister for Finance here calls the work of the opposition a “pollution campaign”. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Call another word for it!]] I don't think that's a place here. We have to do our opposition work here to ask our questions. We have to deal critically with the work of the Minister of Finance. And this insult of Members has no place here. I protest again at the sharpest! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[15:02]] Mrs Fritz Grillitsch, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Uwe Scheuch, colleagues and colleagues on the results of the Council of Agriculture Ministers of the European Union in Luxembourg on 26 March. June 2003 (175/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12424	We arrive at urgent treatment of the self-employed application 175/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12525	I give the floor to Mr Fritz Grillitschal's applicant for reasons of urgency. 20 minutes speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12547	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent months, weeks and days, we have had very intensive discussions on the common agricultural policy in Europe, on the reform of the common agricultural policy. Here in this House too, this was noticeable in the various committees, in the EU Committee and, above all, in the Committee on Agriculture, where we have set up a subcommittee for this subject, in order to inform Members of the progress of the negotiations and, above all, of the outcome. I think this is our task today. I am particularly pleased that not only are you so interested in this issue, but I believe that we should all try together to meet these challenges nationally now. Ladies and gentlemen! For me, on the one hand, it is about developing the importance of this reform for the farmers, but on the other hand – and this is also a command of the hour – to clarify very critically how this reform also affects consumers. Ladies and gentlemen! We face the challenges of EU enlargement, we are facing the WTO negotiations, and I say that all the parties are interested. In 1986, we started a very exemplary path in Austria with the sustainable path, with the so-called eco-social path, economic, ecological, social. With the accession of the EU, we have also experienced a reorientation of the common agricultural policy in the European Union. In 1992 there was already a CAP reform, in the sense also this eco-social path: away from production and more towards environmentally sound production. With the accession of the EU, we have found completely new forms of agricultural policy. I say this very openly and also very critically with regard to the future. We found programmes with the EU accession, which were planable and calculable within a time frame of five to six years. We then developed this EU agricultural policy further. It was Willi Molterer, who established the key cornerstones in the development of this agricultural policy for Austrian agriculture in 1999 in the framework of Agenda 2000. In fact, we have also received a new assignment from society. The company has given the farmers a new order: After the war, it was a matter of providing food for the people, today it is a question of maintaining an environmentally friendly, open-minded agriculture in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! In Agenda 2000, in this six-year programme framework, it was also agreed to carry out a so-called mid-term evaluation after three years. And this mid-term review was put on the table in summer 2002. Many didn't understand us. Many have not understood why the political representation of farmers in Austria is against these reform proposals, why we are against Commissioner Fischler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] I also say this very openly in this House: In the basic trend, Mr Posch, this is the follow-up to the Austrian path. But that's exactly where we distinguish ourselves from our political competitors. We analyse these results by means of practical examples in our businesses, in order to actually say how this reform has an impact on the enterprises in practice. That's what we did. In principle, Fischler is quite right to: Reorientation, away from production towards environmental protection and animal welfare, just as we have made it exemplary in Austria, because we know that this also has a high social acceptance. But as far as the details are concerned, it was necessary to make this call in the summer of 2002, because the result in 2003 is substantially different from the 2002 proposals. We said then that we were against total decoupling. Why are we against total decoupling? – Because we say it is simply necessary, for farmers, to produce certain quantities of production. It is very easy to meet certain management criteria and even performance tangents. We do not want to get into a social debate, which reads as follows: What are the farmers receiving these premiums for? We were also very critical of this form of modulation, where it was said that a comb should be reduced by minus 20 percent in the premiums. Why were we against it? – Because this would have had a very significant impact on the rural structure in Austria if it had happened. This would have meant that dairy farms from 16 cows would have been affected by this modulation, arable farms from 14 hectares and dairy cows from 21 cows. Ladies and gentlemen! As a result, the result of 2003 is substantially different from the 2002 proposals. I say this quite openly here in the house today. My special thanks go first of all to our Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, who has achieved in the Council in Copenhagen in this mid-term evaluation, that there is also planning and calculability for direct payments in the 2007 to 2013 financial period. Thank you, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am particularly grateful to our Federal Minister Josef Pröll, who has achieved a truly acceptable result in this office for Austria. There is no reason to rejoice, which we say quite openly, but a common path with significant improvements to the 2002 proposals. I would also like to thank you, Mr Federal Minister, here in the House! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What is the point of this reform of agricultural policy? – It is about reorientation, away from the market order, from production to rural development. And that's where the numbers speak for themselves, because they confirm that we were exemplary and step-by-step in Austria, had a step-maker role. Because we are already using 60 percent of these agricultural funds for this rural development today, for an environmental programme and for compensation in the less favoured area, and only 40 percent – Mr Faul, you should know this because you are also in an area where there are environmental and mining workers – for production. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Osaka]] What is it like across the EU? Mr Gradwelt, we know that this was an important finding, which has not been heard from you for a long time. [[Abg. Gradwelt: There is an environment throughout Austria!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The result is very different across the EU: 90 percent of the funds go to market order, speak in production, and only 10 percent into rural development, say environmental programme and AZ for mining and investment promotions. We therefore also welcome this reorientation, because this is the follow-up to the Austrian path, a reorientation that Willi Molterer has already initiated at Agenda 2000. What else does the result differ – including for our miners, also for our dairy farmers? In 2002, there was no mention of extending the milk quota, ladies and gentlemen. Now, on the other hand, we have the certainty that this milk quota – a very essential component for the mountain farming structures in Austria – will be available until the 2014/2015 milk year. Ladies and gentlemen! Society has clear ideas: It is about safe food production, it is about environmentally sound production and keeping the landscape open. We farmers want to produce in the future for you and for the consumers in Austria. We have nothing to hide! I emphasize: We have nothing to hide! They're all supposed to know who's producing how and where. We want to produce environmentally sound products, even in the future! This is already happening: With almost 10 percent, we have the highest share of organic farmers in Austria, and we have an environmental programme with which we are European champions in Austria. In no other EU country is there such a high level of participation in the EU environmental programme, as is the case in Austria! 70 percent of farmers participate in an environmental programme with 90 percent of the area! [[Call the Greens.]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we want to keep farmers open the countryside, in the sense of this clear profile of requirements, this clear notion. And I am particularly grateful to the farmers, the rural families of Austria, as well as to all those who have contributed to it in an advisory manner, and who have managed the agricultural land for generations that have shaped the landscape over generations, so that today, Mr Wittmann, you should look at this! – to find a cultural landscape in Austria, which most call it protectionable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Wittmann]] Therefore again: thanks to all rural families! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We farmers want to meet this requirement profile in the future, but under clear conditions. We do not want to be constantly insecure discussions, as you are constantly being led by the opposition, but your so-called reform proposals are just cuts! Once you say: 6 billion schilling less for the farmers, then even 8 billion schilling less for the farmers! You know this very well: Farmers are pretty much the most expensive thing in Europe, because they cost 50 percent of the EU budget! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, you will end these insecure discussions for farmers and consumers! The foundation for safe food production is stable framework conditions for our rural families. That is why I ask you: Help! Support our Federal Minister Pröll, too, so that agricultural incomes can be stabilised and secured! Compared to other occupational groups, we have very low incomes; this also applies to our pensions. We want to further strengthen rural development to strengthen rural areas, so that rural areas will continue to be a sustainable economic location in the future – but we do not want to discuss how you are constantly being led: away with the funds from rural areas and everything into the centres! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] We from ÖVP want to secure rural areas in a sustainable way also as an economic location in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want to ensure food quality in order to meet consumers' high confidence in our products in future. It's just an hour's commandment! Further: We want to ensure and strengthen market position and improve international competitiveness, especially in the run-up to EU enlargement. Mr Faul, we will have to have a very thorough discussion before the farmers in Weiz. We are committed to maintaining multifunctional agriculture as well as environmental performance, maintaining the attractiveness of our cultural landscape, and also to providing incentives for our young entrepreneurs in the investment sector, as they want to set up their business for the future and market. Again, ladies and gentlemen: We need this foundation, we need these stable conditions! And you know: We were never reformers! [[Abg. Oh, my God! Oh!]] We were never reformers! Mr Gradwelt, we were not the last of yesterdays, but are the first of tomorrows!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12659	On the issue of an opinion, Mr. Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. – You are speaking, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12678	Mr President. High house! On the occasion of this urgent request, I can report to you on the results of the reform of the common agricultural policy. It is indeed true that after a year of intensive negotiations, this reform could be completed by the end of June of this year. The discussion was very controversial, was contradictory between the individual national states, between the representatives of interests, but also between the members of the Commission itself – and was discussed in the final effect on the basis of four international pillars. Firstly, on the basis of the Agenda 2000 provisions for European agriculture, in the midst of which we are now in the process. Secondly, under the principle of the Gothenburg Sustainability Summit, the sustainability principle was the second pillar of the discussion. Two international events, which are imminent, have also cast their shadows on the reform debate, on the one hand: the enlargement of the European Union on 1 January. May next year, next year, the WTO round of negotiations, which will start in Mexico, Cancun in autumn. – These four areas have significantly influenced the reform discussion. From Austria we went into this reform debate with a clear positioning. In the foreground, both in the past and in the future, the family farm will always stand and stand. We do not rely on industrialized agriculture, no: We rely on our rural family farms! Further: We want sustainable agriculture, a agriculture that deals with resources carefully. We want to provide the consumer with high quality and safe food. And with the ecological orientation of agriculture, we are very conscious of environmental standards. These premises were also taken by Austria in the reform discussion, and we were able to speak on 26 March. This year, for Austria's farmers and the rural area, one, as I assure my common compromise. Ladies and gentlemen! The following key areas were discussed: firstly, the issue of the market organisation of cereals and milk, especially milk, a key location factor for Austrian agriculture and therefore of particular importance. Secondly, the question of system change, the question: Decoupling, yes or no? Thirdly, the question of modulation was discussed: From what amount are compensation payments returned for which farms, and what happens to this money? Fourthly, the question of cross compliance, calls for mandatory standards as a basis for granting compensation payments. Ladies and gentlemen! On the results in detail, I would like to begin with the cereals. It was true that the Commission had proposed a reduction of 5 per cent in cereals intervention. – I would like to say clearly and clearly: We have clearly taken a position here, because it cannot be that the quality screw is being pushed up in the production – yes, we confess to that! – but at the same time there are always discussions regarding the price screw down for the farmers! And this one of our ways has also prevailed: There will be no reductions in the intervention price for cereals during the coming period, and, ladies and gentlemen, there will be transitional arrangements for Austria even for those central areas in the less favoured regions, namely rye production. The originally planned abolition of the storage cost is also gone, we reduce it by only half and will thus, above all, be able to give stability to income in the cereals areas. Second point: Milk, results in the milk market order. They know that milk production in Austria is of key economic importance, particularly in the less favoured areas in the mining regions. Originally, a massive reduction in the intervention price for butter and skimmed milk powder was planned. We have achieved that there is only one additional step and that 80 percent will be compensated for by farmers. However, the biggest success is the extension of the milk quota until 2015. It was quite clear: If this quota had been lost across Europe, particularly those locations producing milk in the central, rather industrialized areas could have survived – it says: in the northern parts of Europe, very intensive milk production could have been produced. The maintenance of the quota is therefore a central success for Austria and secures Austria's milk location in the less favoured areas. Ladies and gentlemen! The question of decoupling was hotly disputed away from the market regulations: Should benefits be separated from benefits in the future? – The Austrian position on this was quite clear and clear: If we want to keep production, we need to find a model that will enable the linkage of performance and compensation in the future. In this area, there has been a result that I would have liked to have had a little different – I say quite openly – namely, centrally in Europe, uniformly regulated. It is true that in the area of area premiums we will have two models to choose from and in the area of animal premium decoupling we will have three models, with the mother cow premiums in the future being combined to 100 percent. In any case, this means that our main problem, which all the studies have shown was that the less favoured areas would be kept at risk from the output flow in total decoupling. We have also achieved that for hardship cases, not 1 per cent will be available in the future, but 3 per cent of the sum. It will be possible for us to provide the appropriate services to those farmers who are born of this reform as losers, for example, in the historical period. – The reform will be made with 1. ==References== ==References====External links== Another point, which was very controversial, where Austria always had a clear position: Yeah, we're confessing we're going to step up the compensatory payments. The result is as follows: For businesses from € 5 000 compensation is a reduction of 3 percent in 2005, 4 percent in 2006 and 5 percent in 2007 for the sum above € 5 000. 68 percent of the farms are not affected. Those affected deliver about 115 million € in the total period up to 2012. This money flows into a central pot of the European Union and will flow back to the rural development of the countries according to objective criteria. The return on land is approximately € 260 million, which means a net inflow in the field of rural development of € 144 million or about €17.5 to 18 million per year from modulation. We are cutting off those who operate in larger structures, and we are consciously giving it to rural development in order to be able to support them accordingly in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the defaults: In the future, we have uniformly 18 mandatory standards across Europe, which serve as the basis for granting compensatory payments. I think this is a real, substantial progress. We in Austria have already been very far ahead and with the eco-social orientation of our agricultural policy for several years very consciously followed this path. I am glad that these cross-compliance measures, these acts, have to be applied in a uniform manner to all the other countries that are making compensatory payments for their farmers. This also makes a significant contribution to the level playing field in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to report briefly on the national results that go beyond these general results. We have achieved an increase in the suckler cow quota by 50,000 for Austria. This does not mean less than that €10 million per year for Austrian agriculture, and especially for regions suffering from more competitive pressure, because the breeding sector tends to run mainly in disadvantaged areas. We will build up the Kalbin quota and, above all, we will send a clear signal to farmers through administrative simplification by, for example, ensuring, in the future, an unapproached settlement of the premiums on the basis of the cattle database. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the long discussions at the level of the European Union, it has become clear that a clear, closed position is paying off. In the run-up to the debate, we have highlighted, assessed and assessed the point of the Commission's proposals with studies, voted on our position and entered into the negotiations. And as can be seen, at European level you can also score as a small country with good arguments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We were able to decouple central negative points in the interest of our rural family farms – on the questions of decoupling, price reductions, safeguarding the dairy site of Austria – and – I think this is a central point – we have also made it clear: If the consumer turns up at the quality screw, then we cannot discuss price reductions politically constantly. We have achieved this goal because it is simply not possible to introduce higher standards, to improve quality, but to reduce the price for farmers. That would be the wrong signal, both politically and in the market economy! We could largely avert these price reductions! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The compromise is a common path for the European and therefore also for the Austrian farmers, for the development of rural areas. We therefore have clear framework conditions by 2012 – I think this is an important issue for a population group, which is internationally in extremely tough competition with countries that have a very different idea of agricultural policy. There are clear conditions by 2012, and farmers can rely on them. But now we have everything to do – that has already been mentioned; the result is not to rejoice – to secure nationally all the measures we need. We need to make optimum use of all the spaces. It must be clear that every euro available in Brussels must be collected through co-financing measures and made available to farmers and rural areas. We must gradually implement those measures defined in the government programme, such as agricultural diesel, so that we can achieve a level playing field. Ladies and gentlemen! We now have to implement the principle of administrative simplification in a technical way – and we will do so at European level – in the interests of farmers. Overall, I believe, a tangible result that can give optimism to farmers and farmers. There are clear frameworks, and we should look to the future in an optimistic way.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12802	I would like to thank the Minister for his opinion on the subject. We are going into the debate. No speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. The debate opens up to Mr Dipl.-Ing. Your Chew. Desirable speaking time: 8 minutes, legal speaking time: 10 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12832	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As agricultural spokesperson of the Freedom Party, I would like to say that I am proud to be an agricultural speaker. I represent a population group, which is only 3 to 5 percent in Austria, depending on how you estimate it, but you can see that the National Council value for this professional group is very high. It also recognises the high value of the population for the farmers, the importance of rural areas and the recognition of the role and work of the farmer – not only as a gardener but also as a producer of our food. That is why, unlike my previous speaker, Mr Grillitsch, I would like to thank the Minister not primarily for his great work, but for the 200 000 farmers, who in Austria are making sure that we have such a great landscape! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Thank you too!]] But now on agricultural reform; a topic that we have had in recent months – I would like to say almost: years – really persecuted. A year ago, the first strategy paper was presented. There were then revisions, an improvement proposal by Mr Fischler in January 2003 and now the decision-making process in June. With 1. I believe that this will be implemented in May 2005 and will make a massive and sustainable change in the whole agricultural policy in the European area, including in Austria. The cornerstones have already been listed by my previous speakers, I do not want to go into them, but just say: It's all been discussed, it's gotten a lot, but it's still a lot to do. There is still a lot of work in front of us in many areas. There are certainly positive results that we, too, welcome and support from the liberal peasantry, because we are convinced that they are sometimes a cornerstone of the future agricultural policy in Austria. It is certainly good that the intervention price is not reduced. It is certainly an advantage – that has not been mentioned so far – that in the agricultural sector we will receive the possibility of rotation breakers and that we may continue to produce renewable raw materials in the future. It is certainly good that the milk quota was assured by 2015 that in the foreseeable future we do not have to expect an increase in the milk quota to the full extent of the ÖPUL programme for Austria – this is a very central requirement specifically with regard to natural, ecological and biological agriculture. It is particularly important – and I would like to stress this here – that for the first time for years we have had the opportunity to have more regional competence, that we have the opportunity – and we need to use it – to get more national scope; an old freedom requirement, through which we can achieve an instrument with which we must be very careful to deal with, but with which, unlike the previous agricultural reforms, we can achieve much. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But of course it is also a lot to do, it has not been achieved much. If you look at the reform in detail, you have to say: We have not always met in the black – in the truest sense of the word – and we will have to work together with the EIA in the next few months, but also together with the opposition – I believe this is very important here – with the SPÖ and the Greens, on a respectable outcome especially in the regional area and in terms of the revision of the directives. The theme of decoupling, for example, is much discussed, but will probably only show the problems in detail. We will only learn in detail what criteria we have to expect and where there is one thing or another that has not yet been completely wiped out. I am convinced that we need to move even more towards the promotion of the workplace. It will be very important for us not only to have a premium for the area, but also to promote the workplace farm. I am thinking of the Huber Plan – some older Members here in the hall will remember my predecessor as agricultural speaker Huber very well, who was a visionary at the time and who had already called for the implementation of a plan with which we receive the jobs and not just promote the areas. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We liberals are known to be visionaries. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: The Huber was already particularly visionary!]] Huber, a good friend of mine! The topic of milk. Minister! It is true that the extension of quotas is a success, not a question at all. 2015 creates additional room for room, creates additional possibilities, but the whole thing is to see with a little crying eye, because the quota increase, my Ladies and gentlemen, it has been released from 2006, at least then it will be discussed in the course of the evaluation of the agenda. And in this I see a danger, because of course we will do much harder to secure our businesses in an enlarged European area, including agro-politically enlarged areas. The quota is and remains a fundamental element for small and medium-structured farms. It's clear to me: We become free and free peasantry – and the Board of Directors has become unanimously known throughout the country – wherever it is possible to prevent this increase, because we are convinced that increasing the quota in the mountain areas and less favoured areas does not benefit us! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We will have to carry out the discussion on the reduction in milk prices even more precisely, because many have also recognized in this context that, although there are, of course, suspension measures to purchase a certain price loss and farmers in this area have to expect a 20% reduction. Ladies and gentlemen! 20 percent are very much, so together with the Minister, we will certainly still ensure that there is a suspension for dairy farms. Degression of funding, it has already been discussed. 5 000 € limit for the allowance – is certainly a success, not a question. Only: We all – I think I am speaking of the ÖVP from the heart – would have wished us more, a height of, I don't know, 7 000, 8,000, 10,000, and a cover for the large companies in return. I say it quite honestly: I cannot see why we have no upper limit on why businesses in the future EU will receive hundreds of thousands of euros of funding and have to look at smaller businesses, for which perhaps 7 000, 8,000 euros are vital. In other words, in this area too, we will have to try to make some change in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals, with representatives of the ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Faul: Bravo!]] We agree, I believe, across all political groups that this agricultural policy must have a top objective: The main objective must be to maintain agriculture throughout Austria. That is why, in the course of the negotiations, the development of regional details will be of special value – I emphasize this: special value! – to the less favoured areas on which mountain areas have to be laid. I myself come from an area where in the Möll valley, in the Drautal and in other side valleys miners work on the slopes, which one can only, I must honestly say, look with respect. I'm really worried about these companies giving up. I am not concerned that a large-scale construction plant will be abandoned in Lower Austria, there can be a maximum of further commas, other large-scale farms, but the areas will continue to be managed in the future. I am not so sure of the mountain areas, the less favoured areas. That is why the urgent appeal to all political groups to take part in it, so that we can achieve something here. One last word would be permitted for administrative simplification. There has also been a mature and marked discussion on the issue of administrative simplification in the Committee on Agriculture. They were and are all of the opinion that there is still a great need for action here, because we do not yet see administrative simplification. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. In conclusion, I would like to say once again: Let us all take the opportunity to have more regional choices together! Let us take this opportunity – I would like to call you at least the last chance – to make sure that the importance and importance of the rural population and the family farms in Austria are preserved in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12934	The next speaker was Mr Caspar. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12955	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Federal Minister, I listened quite closely to you earlier and during your speech – because I thought I had a positive prejudice against you, you were at least partly indebted to the result that came out here – whose representatives of interest you are actually. I have had the impression that you have made very, very clear here that you are only representatives of farmers – and not all of them. I had actually hoped that members of the Austrian Federal Government would be interested in all Austrians and not just farmers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] I would also like to speak to you, Mr Scheuch. You have now mentioned some things in your speech, where we would have been quite inclined to say, yes, very reasonable, what you are saying. Just, you know, Mr Scheuch, if you and your group were able to do so before things happened, to decide on reasonable requests and not to be done afterwards, then the result that has come out might have been a little different than it is now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer:... This is stupid!]] This is the strength of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on these issues: great talk if it does not matter, and if it is a matter of going along with the EIA, because it is still more convenient to sit at the table of the European Parliament to fight for a reasonable agricultural policy alone. I am surprised that you, as the one who could know how difficult the work of farmers in your region is, did not vote with us in favour of the binding requests we made last year, but rather fell down for the benefit of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Unlike you, I know!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also asked myself today what might have caused the ÖVP to call an agricultural celebration. It was quite clear what was the motive in the morning, why colleague Großruck told such wonderful things about Upper Austria. [[Call the ÖVP: vote everything!]] That's clear: There are oberösterreichische Landtagswahlen – wonderful! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] But are agricultural chamber elections just ahead of the time when this celebration is necessary, or has the Minister achieved such great success? I think, Mr Federal Minister, it is not about very big successes, at least not measured by the scale of the interests of most Austrians and perhaps also a good part of the farmers. What is the history of what we are discussing here today? The history is that, on the one hand, there has been a midterm review in the context of this agricultural policy. The second is that we are facing the enlargement of the European Union. The challenge it faced has been a threefold: Firstly, after the BSE scandal and after the foot-and-mouth disease and after some feed scandals, it was about finally regaining consumer confidence. Secondly, it has been a matter of ensuring the sustainable financing of the common agricultural policy. Mr Grillitsch has said that there is a calculability until 2013 – that is wonderful. One can calculate what it costs, but financeability has been the goal of not being able to calculate what it costs, but being able to finance it permanently, Mr Grillitsch. And it's getting more expensive, and that's not the goal it's about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: Help here in this house!]] Thirdly, it is also a fair distribution of funding, not least – and I say this as a European speaker in my party – between the so-called old members of the European Union and the candidate countries. The question is: What were the interests pursued by the Austrian Minister of Agriculture? – Don’t worry, Mr Pröll, it was especially your predecessor Molterer, today Klubobmann and not present who represented it. – What were the interests? Was it a reform of agricultural policy? Was it in the sense of what Fischler suggested? Was it the financing of the agricultural policy? Were there fair solutions for the candidate countries? - No, it wasn't all! Instead, it was first of all the interest in maintaining the Austrian net recipient position in the field of agricultural policy. That's what you've achieved for sure. Secondly, it was clearly aimed at maintaining the unfair distribution of funding, as we have in the country, namely between the big and the small, and not questioning them. Otherwise, Mr Scheuch would have been relatively satisfied. There could have been a differentiation. Thirdly, the unfair distribution between old and new Member States of the European Union has also been maintained, and it has been aimed at maintaining direct support as far as possible. Federal Minister! In the case of There is nothing to celebrate according to our conviction. What Austria is trying to do and what you have concluded is to force Commissioner Fischler to prevent a genuinely comprehensive reform programme, to ensure that nothing is changed. In your report, you have told us how proud you are that the reform steps could often be realized only half. Wonderful! This is a great reformist attitude that you take into account. Yes, there are winners of this attitude that you have taken, but it is not the consumers, it is not the citizens of this country, there are a few big farmers. We don't thank you for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13078	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Key to word reported. The facts to be corrected must be compared to the right facts, not political values. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13100	Mr President. I've learned it now. [[Abg. Dr. One: Hopefully!]] Member of the European Parliament In his speech, Mr President, I should have voted in favour of the SPÖ's requests for a reasonable agricultural reform during the last legislative period. – This statement is incorrect, because I was unfortunately not a Member of the House at that time!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13148	Mr Klaus Wittauer has now come to speak. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13169	Mr President. Federal Minister! I must say a few words to the honourable Member. To one who has not spoken out there about the agricultural reform itself; he seems to be more representatives of other people. In many things I may not be the same as our Minister Pröll, but one is true: He is one who tries to support agriculture, he has also negotiated hard if he has perhaps not achieved everything. But any support for agriculture is positive and beneficial to our society because the services of farmers and farmers are incredibly important to our country. It also said to Mr Gradwelt during the last Committee meeting that it is also important for society-politically that a functioning agriculture is ensured in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why it is also necessary to look at the CAP reform not to cause additional damage to farmers, but to try to break down everything that can cause damage. Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the reform has left all agriculture and all those who work in this area uncertain. You didn't know exactly where it was going. In view of this uncertainty, the discussion was also unbearable, and I am glad that we now have a result on the table that we can talk about and discuss and also evaluate. As a Member of Parliament, I have always supported Minister Pröll in the past because this reform should contribute to securing our agriculture in the long term, ensuring healthy food and ah, ah... [[Abg. Dr. One: Ah, ah!]] We can moan together if you want! I've been listening to you before. [[Abg. Binder: No, not always!]] Of course, it is important that environmentally sound food is produced and environmentally sound production methods are used that can be supported. The focus is on the conservation of the natural environment and the conservation of our agriculture. This requires healthy agriculture. Many of our wishes could not be implemented – Commissioner for Agriculture Franz Fischler has finally prevailed. Ladies and gentlemen! The danger to me is very serious personally, and the agricultural reform could also mean the debilitating death of our agriculture. In my opinion, the great ones have won too much. One has seen it in advance, and the articles have also shown: France was always opposed to this reform and was finally bought with sugars. That's a little sad because I'd gone a different way. The Irish have also won, including some other great states. We really need to see that the damage to our small-scale agriculture is not going to be too great. The results of the 2003 CAP reform show that although the milk quota has not been increased, it is correct, as has been said before, that the 2006 Agenda presents the danger again. I hope that Minister Pröll will continue to fight for this increase in milk quotas, which would be a major disadvantage for agriculture. In this case, the milk price would go down by 20 to 30 percent, as you know, and that would certainly not be the case for agriculture. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am also not happy about the reduction in the amount of the allowance to €5,000. We have always said: at least €7 500, that was also the starting position. In short, it looked like the €7 500 would be accepted from Brussels. These 5 000 € are a wormhead drop. That there is no cover up, I find personally sad. It is true that the great ones are supported by this. I would have liked it to be different, but perhaps the future will have a different outcome. The increase in milk cow quotas is a positive point. I think that 10 million more for agriculture is very positive. Of course, the mother cow scheme is also something that supports extensive farming. That is why I am glad that this will be implemented for Austria. I would like to say critically that Commissioner Fischler has always claimed that this agricultural reform will give agriculture more money in Austria. – That’s not true! When recently said that the income increase of agricultural workers will only be about 1.7 percent by 2009, I must say, 1.7 percent in six years, which is a change in the opposite direction. In the past, farmers had to lose very large incomes by joining the EU. That's too little for me: 1.7 percent income increase in six years, which is a smooth minus. I call on you, Minister, to take measures that will not be necessary. We liberals have always called for this reform to be simplified both in the administration and in the course of the process. In my opinion – and many quotations prove this – more effort, more administration, more bureaucracy with this reform will come. Of course, policy is called on, in particular the Subcommittee, to put in place directives to ensure that this is suspended and not to do so. More effort for the long-term security of highly paid officials – this is, of course, also a topic. The effort of the AMA will increase. Which saddens me: The farming chambers can breathe up and thank themselves. That was never my goal, and on the other hand, we will always be a freeman. We will try to ensure that what we have always called for is a reduction in the administrative burden, including in the area of farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13231	Their voluntary speaking time has already expired. You still have four minutes of legal speaking time, Mr. Cot.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13246	Then I'll use it, too, because I have a little bit more to say. As far as the simplification of systems is concerned, I would say that we need a discussion on this. I believe that many of the opposition are also my opinion that we should also remember an agricultural reform within Austria, which is always the objective. The need to promote employment in agriculture has always been a duty of freedom, and I believe that the other parties have joined this demand back and forth, some very massively. The promotion of jobs in agriculture means long-term security for small-scale agriculture, and I think that would be very important for Austria. Brussels does not matter if our cultural landscape continues to work in the areas that are difficult to manage. Every now and then, I have the impression that it would be best for them to be in Brussels if we were to reforest all the areas so that our farmers would no longer be costing. We liberals will continue to work to ensure that justice is implemented as well. We will fight for targets in implementing the EU agricultural reform: greater freedom of management, less administrative burden, job security, fairer prices for the food produced. – I am sure that many members of the opposition think just as I am. We are working together on a positive future for our farmers, ultimately for our consumers and for a healthy habitat!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13285	The next speaker is Deputy Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. Legal speaking time: 10 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13304	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners here in the High House! In itself a really important debate, the agricultural reform debate over the last two years. We had little opportunity to discuss this here in plenary. I'm still wondering, What is really urgent about this proposal today? This question has to be asked, ladies and gentlemen: What's really urgent? The agricultural reform has been decided in Brussels and is now being legislated and implemented into national measures. [[Abg. Grill: isn't agriculture important to you?]] What is obviously urgent is the need of agricultural officials and so many farmers' representatives, so-called, here in this House, to explain that they have always been for agricultural reform, and that here they explicitly believe they have to welcome them, with all kinds of flakes and some rhetorical caprioles. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: If it's not important for you, you can go back in! It's easy!]] Federal Minister Pröll! I understand that, as so to speak, short-term agriculture ministers – as long as you are not yet in office – of course, you cannot stand right for everything that has happened in the past, failure in relation to a clear positioning of Austria. We have repeatedly called for this over the last two years, until today, and there has been no official paper that would have been sent to Parliament, which could have been taken from what was the exact position of Austria at the beginning of the negotiations. Let me give you a few examples so you can better understand what I'm talking about. For example, you said: The price reduction in cereals was prevented. – Yes, what does that mean if you formulate it positively? What would this mean by agricultural policy, what must be the goal for Austrian agriculture or can be a perspective? – But to secure food sovereignty! That is to say, to ensure that farmers, no matter where they are producing on this earth, produce in the regional area for their society, for their consumers, that European farmers produce for the enlarged internal market. I still miss every confession! On the contrary: Mr Schwarzböck, the President-in-Office of the Conference, said quite clearly at the beginning of the agricultural reform: We do not need this reform, and we do not want this reform! We want to continue exporting! We need an export orientation of agricultural production! I really can only welcome it if the agricultural representatives make themselves and say: Yes, this agricultural reform is important and right! In so far as it is correct and important when the door is opened from our point of view, the door to a new agricultural policy perspective, but what is still missing is a consistent design. Ladies and gentlemen! It would have been a very different thing today – apart from the context we have just discussed, the acting that Minister of Finance Grasser has offered here would have really not been a special highlight of Austrian parliamentarianism; after all, he will still have opportunity to answer the open questions – would also have been urgent to ask himself the question of genetic engineering and the problem of a GMO-free agriculture in Austria. This too is an issue that would have been really worth being dealt with in the context of a urgent request, because there are international outrages here because in this context there is a US threat of complaint against Europe, because Austrian regions which have defined themselves as free zones of genetic engineering as non-genotechnic areas will in the future be threatened with their strategies. Together, we urgently need to consider how we can ensure an Austrian strategy to maintain agriculture in Austria on the basis of non-genotechnic seeds, on the basis of non-genotechnic production. But let me also address some of the concrete aspects of the current decided agricultural reform. Obviously, many have still not understood it. Mr Grillitsch, you should look around a little bit in your agricultural functionaries, for example with your colleague Mr Sonnleitner in Germany, the President of the German Farmers' Association, who is still claiming: You can't do it! This is his assessment of the agricultural reform and the process of Commissioner Fischler. So it would really be time to talk tiles here and bring the agricultural debate into the farm-functional level – that is your job – to go to COPA, for example, to make it clear that this agricultural reform is an opportunity, in the sense of farmers, for future-oriented food production in Europe. [[Abg. Grillitsch: We are in Austria, not in Germany!]] As I said, export orientation is certainly a point that will continue to put us, Mr Federal Minister, in a massive way, at WTO level. Let us not forget that we have hard negotiations here! It is planned to reduce export subsidies, which is also the negotiating position of the European Union. If this reduction in export subsidies comes, but at the same time the surpluses do not decrease, then the next step is announced for the next agricultural reform. The measures adopted suggest that very likely further steps are needed and must also be implemented. A subcommittee has been set up on the details of agricultural reform and implementation in Austria. We welcome this, of course, from the Greens! We will also try to ensure that, as in the previous reform debate, the experts do not hear the conclusion, but that the experts are finally heard in time. That is why I would like to ask you very much, Mr Federal Minister, so that we can then decide on the basis of clear documents and clear concepts. I now appeal to the colleagues of the FPÖ: Let us take advantage of the margin we have nationally and that in this area – I give you the right! – now exists, even in the interests of farmers and in the sense of environmental and consumer protection! Federal Minister! In this context, you have not taken advantage of a chance today. You are not only ministers of agriculture, but you are also ministers of the environment, and I would have expected you, as Minister for the Environment, to make your position more concrete. I ask you: In which areas of “cross compliance” – i.e. the requirements of environmentally oriented production – have you used yourself massively? What have you achieved in order to achieve higher environmental standards across Europe? I would be very, very interested! You may also be able to go into it again! However, I do not want to forget that some key criticisms can also be made on the existing compromise paper from a green point of view. I mention or repeat some aspects: The fact that no upper limit has been defined is certainly a manko. The fact that the labour force commitment of funding and a stronger reference to agricultural jobs have not been de facto implemented is a point that we need to continue to deal with. I am thinking only of the significantly higher expenditure on green agriculture. This has been studied in Austria, and there are concrete studies. Another essential point is that the shift from the first pillar, from market organisation to the environment and sustainable development in rural areas, is too small with 5 percent fraglos. On the other hand, this is at least €1.2 billion in Europe, and we in Austria are clearly on the winner's side. We will benefit! You have already formulated this in numbers: € 18 million will be co-financed by the EU and € 36 million respectively. And it will of course be very exciting where you take the co-financing and in what form you really ensure efficiency! If more resources are spent in the second pillar, we Greens are also really expecting a set of priorities in the field of quality assurance of organic production of organic farming! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In our view, a very large manko, which you, as Minister for the Environment, have to critically criticise, is that only one percent of farms are subject to mandatory cross-compliance standards, i.e. according to these environmental and animal welfare standards. This is certainly too little, because there is also a 5 percent control obligation in the existing OPUL, and that makes sense because only a comprehensive, good, statistically protected control also has an effect. [[Abg. Grill: You want more control?]] We all want the standards to be implemented uniformly! Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: We shall today put forward a motion for a resolution which goes beyond what you have put forward here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] However, we will also support your request because it is open and in principle reflects nothing but what the agricultural reform has achieved as a compromise, no more and no less. We will certainly not say no to this! However, we will also insist that, in the context of national implementation, comprehensible and correct steps are taken towards the ecological and social reorientation of agricultural policy. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Mr President. I come to the conclusion: This would be a courageous step towards a social-ecological course correction of the Austrian agricultural policy. That is why we will take a massive step forward.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13403	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schools. Speech time: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13422	Mr President. High house! We were now able to follow the bright interpretations of the “Alt-Deputy” Pirklhuber of the Greens. And I've been very careful: Our group has been listened to by you, and partly by your group. Only Mrs. Sburny has become fad two minutes after she's come. It is really sad that the Greens' interest in the reform is so low! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Look who's there from you!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have a special day for agriculture today, and I am very pleased that you are listening to me now! Thank you for your attention! Today we have a special day for agriculture, because we present to the public today very important and epoch-making decisions and, above all, because we tell the Austrian farmers for this important reason that they can expect the full support of the Austrian People's Party and the Austrian Government and that they can also expect the support of the coalition partner and – I am pleased – the support of the Greens. I hope that the Social Democrats will also wish to give their support to the Austrian farmers, because we need them right now! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Today, the mowers drive outside, and maybe that tells you something: We had for a long time had the coldest March as well as the hottest May and June, accompanied by catastrophic dryness. In the east of Austria we currently harvest between 2 300 and 2 800 kilograms of barley per hectare. That probably doesn't tell you! Maybe that's funny for you! However, the fact is that we have less than half of the expected yield and thus face a real disaster. In Austria, however, there is the possibility of dry damage insurance for farmers, and thanks to Federal Minister Pröll, there is indeed this! Many are insured, and I would like to thank him today for his commitment to ensuring that this insurance continues! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He could not prevent the drought, but he has achieved through correct political actions that we can keep the damage to our farmers low! The same is true of the agricultural reform: He could not really control the WTO, the development of this world and the development of trade interests. We couldn't. However, what was put on the table as a European response was very powerful. The original proposals for this agricultural reform were staggering. There's nothing to beautify. Today, however, we have a common path ahead of us. We may still have to clear some stones, but after all: We have possibilities for an Austrian answer. We have the margin to continue our Austrian path, and the many requirements that the Austrians place on the farmers, we can also pack in such a way that the farmers, the farmers, can meet them. That is a reason for optimism for me! There is a lot at stake, for all, not only for the farmers: Our special food quality is at stake. The reliability of our production methods is at stake. The freshness of the products that our consumers rely on is at stake. The quality of our water is also at stake, because the water law does not make the good water, but the farmers who operate on the land do the good water! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] [[Further calls to the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Dear Mrs. Moser, you should respect and honor this! If you would look a little over the edge of the plate, you would know how well we are with our Austrian water policy, and then you would know what we have done in the European comparison and what we are successful for! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] There's a lot more at stake! It is also at stake for the wealth of our nature. It is at stake for the diversity of our landscapes. It is at stake for our tourism, and it is at stake for you all, because disaster protection is active agricultural policy. – All of this can now be carried on successfully, because our Josef Pröll has negotiated well in Brussels and brought results with which we can continue to work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] He couldn't pull all the poison teeth: Decoupling has come in some areas that in some areas God is not grateful. The great people in Europe have wanted decoupling as an object of exchange for the WTO. The Green Minister for Agriculture Künast has needed decoupling in red-green Germany in order to finally raise the funds she does not receive from the budget because she is practically pleading. In Germany we need decoupling, but we do not need it because we can make proper policies! We have found ways in Austria to implement the benefits of this reform. We have defended the milk quotas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] Mr. Een, the term “Milk quota” may not tell you much, but for farmers the perceptibility, market order and market, and this may lead to a positive development in this area too. For me, the question of quotas is an important question. I know that quotas may not mean much to you! They're important to me! I am also beet growers, and the sugar market regulation is based on quotas, and now we hope that this will be possible in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Women's quota instead of cereals!]] Of course, we also understand the women's quota if Mrs Glavischnig really wants it that way! The Austrian farmers, however, have also survived without quotas! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] With this new reform, we have opportunities which we have not had so far, wherever set-aside can be used positively for nature. With this new decommissioning, we can play a positive role in the possibility of the new law on water law. We can do great things with the new decommissioning for nature conservation. We can give farmers prospects with the new possibilities. I admit: The reform also poses the risk of an agricultural standby, a agriculture that takes and does little. This danger exists. In Austria, we will do everything we can to ensure that farmers continue to enjoy the achievement, that farmers continue to deliver good products, and that farmers are sure that our country will continue this successful path with them. Food quality requires production in Austria. You can talk about food quality, what you want, and you can control what you want: If we do not ensure that we produce in Austria and that there are farmers who bring quality according to our rules, then you can wish for what you want! In Africa you won't get it! We will have to work out a number of new programmes in the future. We know that we need to make a massive contribution to investment. We must assure farmers that this new agricultural reform does not lead to a redistribution discussion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] We need to make sure that they get the right investment support programmes to strengthen cooperation. We know very well that enlargement will create problems and strengthen our competitive pressure. But we also know very well that we will give the right answers with the opportunities offered by the new budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13559	Mr President, I should like to thank Your voluntary speaking time has been over for a long time. You still have 1.5 minutes of legal speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13575	We will bring agriculture together with the farmers and Federal Minister Pröll with imagination and with expertise and hopefully also with your support despite these EU decisions and with these decisions into a good future!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13602	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Legal speaking time: 10 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13620	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If I have listened carefully to Mr Schultes, I can actually give him the right in terms of content, but not in the methodology! [[Abg. Wattaul: You listened, I saw it!]] Mr Schultes! If, as you say, we need a dryness insurance for our farmers, this is an outflow of the fact that we operate monocultures. As an alternative to your region, my colleague, I would recommend mixed culture to you. We can look at this together, there are appropriate projects in which, for example, the soil is processed accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Schools.]] - Are you laughing? You don't think what you're saying here is true yourself! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr Gradwelt! The rain comes from above and not from below!]] Mr Molterer, you have laid the foundation for what Mr Pröll, the Federal Minister of Agriculture, has not only received praise today, because it was you, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, who was the first Austrian to go out and prevented a real agricultural reform. You must be aware of this, Mr Molterer, because you have spoken against decoupling! Mr Grillitsch, we both come from the same region. You'll probably know the farmer who died on 1 January. An interview was held in the “Small Newspaper” on July: The Lässnitz farmer Franz Kocher meant that decoupling the compensation payments would have many advantages. This would be much more unbureaucratic and would offer more scope. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Mr Grillitsch, you as a farmer's representative have spoken against decoupling! In the past, there was hardly any greater difference between the farmers and the so-called farmers' representatives than we have today. Remember, Mr Grillitsch! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another point: Mr Pirklhuber referred to the urgency of this request. . We have had the opportunity in the Committee on Agriculture to discuss with the Federal Minister. We have set up a subcommittee on the basis of a four-party application. The urgency of today's request should therefore be questioned. Federal Minister! It may also have been a grateful gesture to the Minister of Finance, so that he has a short break and can refresh himself briefly before the debate on his misdemeanors is continued, or it was very easy to thank him for increasing the Austrian agricultural budget. I do not know, because it is urgent, Mr Grillitsch, that is not really what this request says. [[Abg. Grill: Isn't that important?]] Mr Grillitsch, I would just like to point out a point which you and Mr Scheuch are calling for here: “The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management is also invited to ensure administrative simplification in implementation.” Mr Grillitsch, you should have behaved differently in the negotiations at European level, because this administrative simplification is not possible with the measures that the Federal Minister has informed us in writing about and which he has presented to us today. There will be more statistics and officials, but fewer farmers. That's fact! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Mr Grillitsch, I am now speaking again to you as the President of the Federal Farmers' Party. One of your representatives from your region, namely colleague Freigaßner from Weißkirchen, who is certainly known to you, says – also according to “Small Newspaper” of 1. July 2003 – that 70 percent of the existing budget is included in the administration and only 30 percent go to farmers. – Manfred Freigaßner literally: “I’m simply saying that the bureaucracy is going to be more secure now.” Mr Grillitsch! The separation between the so-called farmers' representatives and the so-called farmers' representatives has never been as great as today. I'd think of it in your place! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Minister! I have already mentioned this in the Committee, and I would like to conclude today: You have... – I represent the Austrians, and I am now! [[Abg. Grill: Who are you representing?]] [[Abg. Murauer: They will thank you!]] Federal Minister! You have the task of representing all of Austria! You have the task of representing at European level the red, the green, the blue and also the black farmers! Federal Minister! It's all the more surprising that you're on 27 May. June, one day after the agreement in Luxembourg, held a joint press conference with the President of the Austrian Farmers' Federation and with the president of the presidential conference Schwarzböck and celebrated the successes there together! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you want to censor?]] Mr. Federal Minister out of service! As a Federal Minister you are responsible for everyone! [[Abg. May. Molterer: A press conference is also there for everyone!]] A press conference in the black camp, at the so-called black agricultural representation, is not what the Constitution requires of an over-party minister, Mr. Federal Minister and Mr. Klubobmann! And it's sad it went this way!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13789	Next speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. 10 minutes speaking time. – You are speaking, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13807	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! When we consider that this debate is about a urgent request, we must already note that there is a little coffee house atmosphere here, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer! [[Abg. Grittisch: Oh, that's it!]] Very cozy we have it today! [[Abg. Murauer: Would you like to have it even more comfortable?]] First of all, I would like to put forward our motion for a resolution, which is, as it were, a response to your urgent request, although Mr Pirklhuber has already stated that we can generally represent the contents. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition, I would like to say – Mr Grillitsch is not here at the moment – that: [[Abg. Grillisch: Here I am!]] In the “ecosocial voice” of Mr Dipl.-Ing. Josef Riegler, President of the Eco-Social Forum, is in Abs. 5: Objectives and measures do not agree. The proper decoupling in principle... – So there are obviously different views within the EIA, which can, of course, exist in a large community. I would like to address the genetically modified organisms more precisely. It is known that we have recently launched a four-party resolution request concerning the GMOs, and I would also like to say a little on this issue because the US intends to bring an action before the WTO against the European Union. It is not only that Europeans are so massively opposed to genetically modified food, but now more than 50 percent of the American population. This is surprising because the American population knows relatively little about genetically modified organisms; if they knew even more, they would probably be much more opposed. Overall, a global survey of the Pew Global Attitude Project confirmed that two thirds of the world’s population reject genetically modified foods. That is, if we are doing something so massive, then we are in total agreement with the population, and it is not an unwarranted desire, and it is interesting that Australia as the next country has proclaimed a gene moratorium. This will be the next country to be sued by the USA. The Australians want to put the introduction of genetically modified foods on ice for three years because they say: What actually prevents us from examining the health-damaging moments of genetically modified foods in the context of a longer experiment? That's nothing impossible. It is striking that in America every third baby is overweight, and every second baby must be called obese. There is only a second country in the world, which has a similar dramatic development among the grandchildren. This is China, which recently approved genetically modified food on the market. There are also genetically modified food daily bread. This should give us a great deal of thought and should also stimulate your willingness to go along with our motion for a resolution because it concerns health. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the subject of WTO, I would like to say the following: The Federal Minister's response states that Doha clearly states that the differentiated treatment of developing countries must be an integral part in the next agricultural negotiations. In our motion for a resolution, we have pointed out that we are protecting European agriculture where it is necessary to protect it, but at the same time we are calling for a complete departure from export promotions, because with these supported prices we are preventing or at all ruining agricultural development in the countries of the south. I would now be interested in one more thing, Mr Grillitsch: You said first that we were the stepmakers of Austrian agriculture. [[Abg. Grill: European!]] European agriculture. – I always thought that “stepmaker” had something to do with a sick heart. [[Abg. Grillitsch: In Austria we are good anyway!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: No!]] How sick is agriculture? I sometimes have the impression that it is not because, despite your agricultural policy, it is still quite healthy, because the farmers and the farmers still go their own ways and have developed direct marketing, organic products themselves – partly against the massive resistance of the organic farmers. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Stepmaker is someone who leads a race!]] -Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13975	The next speaker is Mrs Schefermair. Speech time: Seven minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13995	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rester-Hintersiere, I am an ÖVP farmer – I am just saying that – and I can tell you: There's no one against making our businesses creative, so that we can make our... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Do you remember milk direct marketing?]] – There are other ways, too, but I think we have gone our way well, and no one has beaten us in front of our feet. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The 2003 CAP reform is now ending a difficult and exciting discussion process for agriculture. Thus, certain uncertainties have been overcome for the time being by farmers as well as consumers. You know, there have already been many famous men in Austria who have been committed to the concerns of farmers and consumers. When I think of earlier times, I think of a Stefan Fadinger, a Christoph Zeller. That was 1626. I think of Hans Kudlich in 1848. At the time, all of them have introduced significant changes for Austrian agriculture, which are already of course for us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] With Josef Riegler, Willi Molterer and Josef Pröll, however, the latest reform process has been prepared, which affects not only Austrians but all Europeans. Like my previous speakers, I too would like to thank Mr Pröll for his wise and sensible negotiation with his European colleagues. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minister Pröll managed to make a compromise in the further development of European agriculture only by seeking allies. With his commitment to Austrian interests, Josef Pröll has created security for farmers and consumers in our country, and you are affected. Safety for agriculture means not only safety for agricultural incomes and for the management and care of the countryside, but security for agriculture also means security for the largest employer in Austria, because agriculture directly or indirectly creates 373 000 jobs. That, in turn, means security for many families. That's what I'm talking about now, the frontal area and the downstream area. [[Call at the SPÖ:Resourced families?]] – No, no, I mean the jobs that exist in the downstream area. Austria is on the farm sizes – please be careful! – in the lower quarter of the EU. The average operation includes about 17 hectares. Our small and medium-sized agriculture is therefore not only manageable, but also stands for a very special quality. Our farmers produce products that are in demand worldwide as top products. And we also experience this in the top gastronomy, which is happy to buy our products. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you drive on the motorway, read large at the stop: The strawberry season has begun! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] – Unfortunately it is not until the end of March, and with us these strawberries have not been harvested. In the strawberry period, however, it is often difficult for the city to reach local strawberries if one does not know the certain places. It is also with the Toma-ten in January. A curiosum that screams for change, where you can put your actions, because it is up to us consumers to buy domestic products when they are mature. We are already one step further when it comes to assessing organic and conventional agriculture. Both of us have the same importance and the same recognition. 285,000 hectares are managed organically in Austria, which represents a share of 11 percent, and with this value we are top in Europe. The consumer also determines the mode of production in this area by his purchasing behaviour, so we can also decide. Consumers are the winners of the CAP reform because it provides safe and healthy food, fresh air and clean water in Europe. Through cross compliance, 18 directives in Europe regulate the quality standards of products. This means equal opportunities for us in competition and equal quality products across Europe. The open spaces that are now open to the individual Member States give us farmers freedom of design. Estimated Minister of State! We ask you, in the sense of the Austrian farmers, to use these national design options with a proven sense of fineness. Mr Pirklhuber has said that he is a short-term minister. I can only say: A short time in office – much achieved!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14076	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Maier. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14094	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is a somewhat comically urgent request, Minister of State, Mr Klubobmann! [[Abg. Jakob Auer: This topic should be a matter of concern to the Maier!]] I have counted 22 Members of the ÖVP, so only 22 Members consider this issue urgent. Colleague Heidemarie Rest-Hinterseer has already referred to a kind of coffee house atmosphere, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Molterer: I'd say it's 35!]] This is the unbelief of your agricultural policy, which is precisely what comes to light in this proposal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Maier can't count!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If one reads through this urgent request in detail, then two points appear: On the one hand, the results achieved for Austria should be implemented as best as possible, and on the other hand, quality of life should be ensured in order to meet the high level of consumer confidence in the future. Let us stay at the first point, Minister of State. Do you not have a bad conscience, Mr Pröll, if you look at the report by Mr Bundeskanzler, which shows how many directives have not been implemented from your place of business? – We “gratulate” you, because you are top riders in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second point: Ensuring quality of life. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14168	May I ask this “Stehconvent” before Klubobmann Scheibner not to turn to the speaker’s back?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14187	Federal Minister! Mr. Klubobmann Molterer! They know the EU's basic food regulation. This sees as a control principle controls from the field, from the stable to the plate, and with included, ladies and gentlemen, are the feed, in recognition...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14222	Mr Parnigoni, you have said “sausage” here. Do you take this back? [[Abg. Parnigoni: I take it back!]] Thank you. The speaker is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14249	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I would be glad if I could speak here once, because it is not easy for a Member to be constantly interrupted by the President and then to find the thread again. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The EU Food Regulation provides that feed is subject to exactly the same control regime as food. This regulation, Mr Pröll, provides for an information obligation by you as a member of the government in charge of animal health if animal health is placed on the market. Mr Federal Minister, you have not complied with your responsibility to this day, and no corresponding change has been made in the feed law to this day. In Salzburg, Upper Austria and Lower Austria, a sales ban was imposed on about 20 farmed laying hens, because Lasalocid was found in eggs and feed. Lasalocid is used as a veterinary medicine for parasites in the digestive tract of chickens, namely for chickens for fattening. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For laying hens, the use was and is expressly prohibited, and I ask you, Minister of State: Why didn't you warn the farmers? – 20 farms had to be closed, they have huge losses. You are responsible for this under the EU regulation alone! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Farmers in Salzburg asked me what to do. I told them two things. First: Regression They were sent to the feed manufacturer and, secondly, to: Complain the Republic of Austria, complain to the Ministry of Agriculture because the Ministry of Agriculture has failed to comply with the requirement of European legal information. Now, of course, you have to ask yourself why this happened, Minister of State. ==References== ==References====External links== ==References== ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website I ask you: Why, Minister of State, did you not warn farmers, traders and the public as Minister for Feed? – Is this possible with the Raiffeisen Association? [[Abg. Jakob Auer: This is wrong!]] I would just like to inform you: The company that owns the Raiffeisenverband Garant is the company that delivered this feed. Federal Minister! They bear the responsibility for this, and we will pass it on to farmers in Salzburg. Therefore, the conclusion is: Complete your homework, implement guidelines in good time, and comply with European law! In the future, however, you will spare us with such urgent requests. You are absolutely unbelievable in view of your agricultural policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14297	Mr Maier, I have interrupted you twice for your protection: once, because three colleagues are standing before you directly disturbingly, and once again because a Member has organized an interlocutory agency that I will not talk about. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Authorized!]] And now you are doing the same thing that Mr Maier has done, although we have said that we do not. Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I say that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pirklhuber, Mr Rester-Hinterseer, Mrs Freunds and Mr Freunds is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Keussnigg. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14326	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: SPÖ!]] I think you should also mention the responsibility of the competent health councillor Burgstaller in Salzburg when you face such severe criticism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: This is not responsible for feed!]] – But she will be responsible for the execution. I should like to take a short look at the comments made by Mr One, who said that the agricultural policy, especially in the person of the Federal Minister of Agriculture, had failed to perceive the interests of all Austrians. Colleague One thing, I think, is not in the hall. Nevertheless, the question at least to the SPÖ Group: Are intact rural areas, are healthy rural farms, are thousands of jobs in rural areas, are farms producing healthy, cost-effective and organic food, for example, not in the interests of all Austrians? Then the sentence has fallen, there are only a few large farmers who would be the winners of this reform. I should like to ask the following question: Your group is right: Do you know who dropped the ceiling of €300 000 in the final phase of the CAP negotiations? – It was the Social Democratic German Chancellor Schröder! And the interests behind it were very clearly recognizable. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the SPÖ:We are in Austria, Mr Colleague!]] I think that if you start these attacks, you should take a look at them in the European environment and take care of them, Mr Gradwelt... [[Abg. But, as far as I am concerned, since when is the Schröder in the Council of Agriculture Ministers, Mr Colleague? You don't know what you're talking about!]] Please, Mr Gradwelt, we are very happy to have this dialogue. I do not really want to attack the Greens today, but there is a green Minister for Agriculture in the Federal Republic of Germany. Do you know how fast it turned 180 degrees when Chirac and Schröder fixed the new line in Europe? Did you get that? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gradwell: Are you able to talk about Austrian effects?]] The German line turned around 180 degrees after this four-eye talk took place between Schröder and Chirac! I think you need to look carefully and give the truth the honor. I think you can say that. [[Abg. Gradual: Look at the “spiegel ” – because of“ giving the truth the glory ”! ... your peasant president...!]] May I perhaps make a brief, completely unaggressive, kind comment on your own contribution to the speech? – You said that the bureaucracy and all that would increase. I believe that this reform has also succeeded in establishing the basis for the entire funding in the animal sector to be made directly via the computer in the future. The necessary link has now been made to the European Union in Brussels. This means that a huge block will fall away from the farmers, because – and it must also be said because this is in the interests of consumers – on the basis of this cattle database, no movement of an animal will remain unregistered and everything will be carefully understood and one will now, because this is so cleanly implemented, try to take away this large block from the farmers, and that will continue with the means of farming. What I want to say is: It is not about hot air, but it is about taking step by step measures to debureaucratise agriculture. Unfortunately, I can't say much on my real topic now, because the red lamp is already shining. I would, however, like to make two points of principle. There are two characteristics which distinguish Austrian agriculture from those in other European countries. On the one hand, this is the micro and microstructure. The eco-social agricultural policy has built up a growth brake for many years. I can tell you: We are behind Greece and behind Portugal in terms of milk production in terms of size statistics. We have the smallest milk production structure in Europe. The Second is: We have gone into rural development like no other country in Europe. 80 percent of our disbursed funds go to rural development and only 20 percent to market promotion. You should know that. Throughout the rest of the European Union it is exactly the other way round. That means: We are going to secure jobs, we are moving towards the functioning of the entire rural areas and towards economic power in rural areas. The objective we must have in agriculture is to link these key areas of agriculture and forestry with additional new value chains that we create value-added areas. This concerns the energy industry and the whole area of biomass, where thousands of farms can take advantage of their opportunities. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: That's too little!]] These are also the combination of agriculture and tourism as well as the combinations with trade and services. The policy, which is now being implemented, is strongly focused on the creation of dynamic, strong farms that invest in the future and make a lot for agriculture and rural areas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14466	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak. You know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14490	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Keussnigg, spoke about the responsibility of the Deputy Head of State Gabi Burgstaller in the feed sector. [[Abg. Grandruck: She's married now!]] I'll put it right: It is in no way responsible for animal feed, because, rather, it is true that under the Federal Minister of Agriculture, Josef Pröll, the Federal Minister for Agriculture, is responsible under the Federal Minister for Agriculture's law, second at the national level of the ÖVP Council of State Josef Eisl. And thirdly, pursuant to Article 10 of the Food Basic Regulation, these authorities make a direct information obligation – if animal health is placed on the market – which has not been done in the present case.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14524	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll for a second word message. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14543	Mr President. High house! In view of the debate, I would like to take the floor and address a few points. I did not only represent the view of farmers and rural farmers in the negotiations, but, just as it is in my responsibility as Minister of the Environment, as Minister of Agriculture, as a director of forestry and water affairs, and also as a member of the Federal Government, of course, the interests of all Austrians, who put consumers at the centre of this reform debate as a whole. We could not only do something in this reform for the rural population and rural areas, but also, above all, provide answers to the challenges in the food sector, namely introducing new animal welfare standards, establishing new rules as a basis for compensation payments and thus providing high-quality food for Austrian consumers. Unlike some speakers, I say quite clearly – and this is also true in the negotiating process –: I do not distinguish between mountain and valley farmers, not between large and small farmers, not between farmers who operate in the west, and farmers in the eastern regions, but I try to make agricultural policy balanced for all. This was also a basis in positioning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] No one has refused this reform. At the beginning of the debate, it was precisely point-by-point, where the advantages and disadvantages of agricultural agriculture corresponding to our ideas lie. We discussed this with studies and then made point by point the assessment and set the negotiating position. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already obvious – and this is also clearly said here – that the question of total decoupling, the question of price reduction was supported, above all, by those countries that have focused on highly industrialized, large-scale agriculture, such as Great Britain, Sweden, the Netherlands and Denmark. They fully welcomed the original proposals. Those countries, including Austria, which have committed one of them clearly defined agricultural agriculture, have taken a critical position and have tried to get the best point by point. And the result also gives us the right: In the main points, the result is closer to our negotiating positions than those of those States whose agricultural policy we – and above all, I do not think, here in the House of Consens – have prescribed us, namely industrialized agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! We have also led the reform under two premises: firstly, that after the World Trade Round no second reform can be made, but that European position is also the position for the World Trade Round, and secondly, in order not to raise misunderstandings in this respect: Yes, the financial cover established by the Brussels Council for the period up to 2013 with the ten new Member States must also apply to this reform; and it will consider it. The reform was negotiated under the Cancun provisions and under the financial cover of the Brussels decisions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the question of cross compliance and mandatory environmental standards: It has succeeded for the first time in introducing these for all countries. And if you address my responsibility as Minister for the Environment, I'll tell you: I have not only negotiated the agricultural reform as a Minister of Agriculture, but I have negotiated the agricultural reform as Minister responsible for agriculture, forestry, the environment and water affairs. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Very competent!]] I never take up my political tasks – you can assume it – but I always have a look at the whole on these central questions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There are 18 new environmental rules – as Mr Pirklhuber has referred to them; I can also provide them – in the field of human health, animal and plant health and animal welfare. These are directives of the European Union which are now to apply. They must be transposed into national law and they will form the basis for compensation payments. On the question of genetic engineering, I would like to say something, because that was also mentioned: There is a clear position on this. We have a moratorium in the European Union. The following framework conditions are now being discussed: the question of traceability, the question of liability, the question of co-existence. Our clear position is: We will not differ from our position on the moratorium until we have consistently resolved these central questions. However, this debate should be held in a matter of fact and not just emotionality. I think that's important. We must analyse point by point and then clarify this very sensitive question also for Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! On the question of Lasalocid in feed, it must be said that the Agency for Food Safety as the Federal Office has to implement the feed law, as well as in the specific case. I know that it has implemented the point on the point and has also made it clear that the measures in question have been taken. In conclusion: The overall package, I believe, has enabled us to counter that liberalisation trend towards industrialized agriculture, which some Member States of the European Union have wanted. We have a package on the table, which ensures the basis for farmers, allowing development for rural areas – a package that sets out the framework conditions until 2012. Of course, every farm must fulfil its task of achieving economic alignment and of achieving the same success on the market. Policy has provided a clear framework. These conditions will help us to implement our idea of farming in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14599	The next speaker is Mrs Binder. 5 minutes speaking time. Your group's remaining speaking time: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14618	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== June 2003 includes keywords such as: healthy food – in my opinion, the term “food” would be more honest and true – more quality, environmentally friendly, species-friendly production methods, conservation of the natural environment, care of agriculture. In the urgent request, which in principle raises the question of what is urgent, but now the interest of the ÖVP Group has also been aroused, it is a request for the best possible implementation of the results achieved for Austria. The question, however, is whether this is really for the best of farmers. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that this reform is not a reform within the meaning of farmers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A real reform would have been to implement the proposals made by Commissioner Fischler, but this has been prevented by stakeholders. The social and fair distribution of agricultural support is lacking. Minister! You meant you didn't make a difference. I ask you: How do you keep it with the headline from the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”: “Who has, to him will be given”? – So much about the social aspect. Our view of things is that agricultural policy must benefit people, namely producers and consumers. Support must be granted independently of production. In this way, this compromise reform involves a very short-term perspective, above all with regard to the forthcoming EU enlargement. The note in your government's programme that agriculture policy does not go beyond EU level also offers bad prospects for consumers and the environment. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Mr Grillitsch, you also call for administrative simplification in your request. I am convinced – I was told – that the opposite is the case. The thickness of the promotions will become even more incomprehensible and the dependence on various interest groups will be increased. The farmers remain on the route, which is very slowing down the increasing bureaucracy. The space for young, dynamic, innovative farmers is getting smaller and smaller. The goal or ideal, Mr. Grillitsch, of the free, proud peasantry is light-years away. I think the farmers are more dependent than ever on public and public support; they are becoming such a state-owned farmer. However, it is also significant that you do not mention, in your request, the group of women in agriculture, in rural areas. And that, although it is precisely the women – that is precisely why, colleague! – are often self-employed and self-employed and often maintain them under difficult conditions and enormous loads. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer]] This fact underlines a study by Mrs Haubner on 7 July. presented on the subject of divorce on July; Heading of a related APA issue: ‘Bad maps for families on land’. The main statements of this study are as follows: poor economic situation of women, restricted access to education and training, low availability of jobs, conservative role behaviour and lack of public transport. Ladies and gentlemen! These are conditions that need to be changed as quickly as possible. One requirement in the EU Parliament is to strengthen the representation of women in the country in vocational and state decision-making bodies, as women in the country are people in the country. They live in rural areas, and they must also be heard! In summary, ladies and gentlemen, this reform is a not-for-a-go referendum, without a fair distribution effect and without transparency.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14691	For the last time, the following words have been spoken: Mr Faul. Still speaking time of the SPÖ Group: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14709	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Your so-called urgent request, Mr Grillitsch and Mr Scheuch, is actually very significant. [[Abg. Scheibner: Good he is!]] This must be said when you look at the order in which the demands are made. Makes your urgent request in front of your eyes and then lets it break down on the tongue. The first is the implementation of the results achieved for Austria in the implementation of the political compromise. The Minister has also responded, and I must say: You, Mr Minister, have been able, together with other ministers, who, as you think, make a mini-reform from Commissioner Fischler's great proposal for reform, and water all the cornerstones of this planned reform in a way that they are no longer noticeable. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: To improve!]] In our opinion, the main key points are the decoupling of space and quantity and the further development of rural areas – but not as you see it, Mr Grillitsch, but in a comprehensive form, including structural improvements and services – and ultimately the WTO capability for Europe, which is still in a very narrow connex with America. At the WTO negotiations, we will see what the Americans say about your reform. I can tell you now: You're going to smile at this trick mildly. More important than the reform plans we have hoped to be presented, you, Mr Grillitsch, were the safeguarding and stabilising of incomes for agricultural agriculture and the creation of further income prospects. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Mr Grillitsch! The preamble of this urgent request reflects, in short, your desire to influence the preservation pots to look for perspectives on how to come to new funding pots, and ultimately not to attack anything so that nothing happens! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill: Read exactly and correctly!]] It is not uninteresting, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ and of the ÖVP, like your economic representatives in times of such weak economic growth, to stand in a time of recession in Europe to see them quietly, as 50 percent of the pan-European budget goes into the agricultural budget alone, and that is money that is earned at 100 percent in the economy, because – and here we, Mr Grillitsch, certainly agree – the farms will not have contributed much to it. Instead of demanding impulses for the economy in Austria as well as for the economy in Europe, instead of stimulating the economy by the targeted use of funding for project funding, the agricultural lobby in Austria is bowing. This would be done, Mr President, Mr Mitterlehner, Mr Kopf, Mr Maier and all the other so-called economic spokesmen in the ÖVP and in the FPÖ. But in addition to this, in our opinion, there is a huge misunderstanding in the distribution of funding between the agricultural sectors and the economic sectors between the large farmers and the small farmers in Austria, to which many speakers from the FPÖ have also pointed out. I don't want to stretch the numbers anymore, but how is it really? Mr Kopf, think You'll have to go over it once in a while! The Liechtensteins, the Waldbott-Bassenheims, the Hardeggs and the Stiftings get 10 million to 25 million Schillings a year! These are industrial companies that cannot achieve this in Austria, Mr Mitterlehner! This goes down to the smaller ones, and this is about grants of between 500 000 and 600 000 S. It would be Their businesses are happy if they can generate such profits. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Think critically about this funding policy and try to understand that it sometimes hurts us! Mr Scheuch and Mr Grillitsch, Mr President of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14790	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. The Group's remaining speaking time: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14822	Mr President. Mr. Minister! This time I can really take you to the floor: You have been very emphasizing and repeated here both as a Minister of Agriculture, which is also responsible for forestry and so on, as well as as as an Environment Minister, and I therefore hope that in this self-understanding you will really take full advantage of the possibilities of the quality rail that this EU agricultural reform will open up to you, in the sense of organic farming, in the direction of food quality and in the direction of small-scale land-based agriculture. Yes, Mr Scheuch, you are right: The aim is the land-based agriculture! I emphasize: The true cultural performance of the Middle Ages is next to the cathedral building the shape of our landscape, and it was formed by the peasants, by the people in agriculture, by the many people who have been driving their lives. Against this background, I find it far too short in the debate if farmers always want to be paid only for a product that either meat, milk or any other food. I think that farmers should also be paid for the product “Landscape”. That should not be alms, because that is not a beggar service, but it is a real achievement, a cultural achievement! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this context, I can tell you, Mr Schultes: One thing you already have to accept: It's not the farmers who make good water. I mean, that's the perversion bad! I quote what you have formulated here today, namely that the farmers would make good water. – I mean, they may also lay “happy eggs” or something similar. Please, that's white shit! Farmers use good water, and hopefully it remains good water! This is our problem, and we will also address this in the debate on the new water law novels.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14864	You did not deliberately use the word ‘blessness’, I suppose.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14880	The colleague did not say anything about "happy eggs" - that would have been stupid. - Well, that was the correction now. But one thing, Mr Minister, we already have to address more precisely: the question of feed. The Salzburg events with that – what does that mean? – Lasalocids are not an individual case! In the Food Report 2001 of the Federal Food Research Institute you can read the following: 12 out of 131 samples of this prohibited product, with this prohibited antibiotic for laying hens, have been subject to limit values. I can still document this to you today. A sample even found a twentyfold excess! Please, this has happened, it's not a day fly! Although this is not on the agenda, it does occur once a year in these food controls. Against this background, Mr Minister, you must also take the EU agricultural reform as an incentive to introduce a process check. There is no point in letting agricultural councils go over the bank from time to time to feed, so to speak, and looking at it in a rough way. The control is inadequate. We need an agency that controls the processes on the ground, namely the processes in the means of operation, such as the use of farm resources and the quality of farm resources, including in the production and not only in the agricultural sector. In the places of feed production, you have to go into the halls, then you can guarantee the quality that you like to mention and for which you like to be praised as well. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let me tell you something, Mr Grillitsch: 14 days ago I announced that I'm going to show you what happened again, and I'm happy to tell you today: An Upper Austrian farmer went to the Czech Republic and bought back banned antibiotics there, a drug called dexa tomanol, which he imported 8 litres. I repeat: He imported 8 liters of dexa tomanol illegally! Go after this case! - Yes, sure! [[Abg. Grillitsch: Have you provided evidence?]] Check with the Landesgericht Linz! [[Abg. Grill: This is a dangerous game you are driving!]] These are things that keep miscrediting your industry. Why don't you go after that? At the Linz Regional Court, ask for the import of 8 litres of dexa tomanol! [[Abg. Grill: lumpy judgments are dangerous!]] We want EU agricultural reform to support forms of production that exclude these things, which are particularly important for quality and good food, and for what should be really healthy on the table of consumers every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14952	No further words are available here. I declare the debate closed. We come to the vote on the self-employed Amendment No 175/A (E) by Mrs Grillitsch, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch, colleagues on the results of the European Union Agricultural Council in Luxembourg on 26 March. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a sign in this regard. – I notice: The request was accepted by a majority vote. (E 11.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber, colleagues on national implementation of EU agricultural reform. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a sign in this regard. – I notice: This application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. Before I come to the short debate, I would like to warmly welcome a delegation from the People's Republic of China led by Minister He Guoqiang, who will have talks with the Federal Chancellor and with party members. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] [[The members of the delegation rise from their seats and thank you with a congratulation on their part.]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15018	The next item is the short debate on Mrs Lichtenberger's request to report to the Transport Committee on the motion for a resolution 19/A by Mrs Lichtenberger, colleagues on a federal law amending the road traffic regulations, until 19. ==References== We will briefly debate this request, and after the debate the vote will take place. I should like to draw attention to the fact that First speakers or the first speaker have 10 minutes available and then each group has 5 minutes each. As an applicant, Mrs Lichtenberger is given the floor. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15046	Ladies and gentlemen! If it were possible – as it was now possible for us to agree to your request – that you would jump over your shadow and make an extremely important application, which is a first step towards an anti-transition policy. that we would not only experience a star hour of parliamentarianism, but also bring about a real solution to the question of transit, not only for Tyrol, not only in the Alpine arc, but also for the whole of Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was the discussion and the vote at the last week's meeting of the Transport Committee that motivated me to make a request for a time limit. We are in the diagnosis, I hope, quite agreed and believe that we have to do something about the loads of transport, especially the loads from transport emissions and the noise, which is particularly heavy for the population in the valleys, that we need to find a solution. This solution can only lead to success if there are concrete measures. At European level, we are currently faced with a very "frightful" decision, where essentially three proposals are inspired by the discussion, all three of which are equally bad. All three suffer from a great lack, because the proposals discussed at European level, both by the Council and by the Commission and by the European Parliament, do not contain a ceiling on transport. All these three proposals must therefore be rejected, but only our MEPs in the European Parliament have recognized this correctly and therefore voted against it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All the other Members have supported these proposals, including two Austrian Members who have tabled such a proposal, and I do not think they have any solution competence for the future. Since they are not even capable and willing to propose real restrictions at European level, an internal Austrian rail of the measures must be opened. You also say that, but your proposals are essentially limited to drilling a tunnel that is perhaps finished in 15 years and will not use any truck then, because driving on the road will still be available for a butter bread, while on the train the corresponding tariffs will have to be paid. Ladies and gentlemen! It's eye-removing! This does not take account of the situation of the population, and it does not solve the problem either. These proposals are absolutely unacceptable if they remain isolated in the room. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The improvement of rail infrastructure, as you suggest, is a correct and necessary step. If, however, it is not accompanied by the measure that the price structure is modified, that needs to be paid for the passage through the Alps, then you will not find any trucks in these beautiful tunnels, which will undoubtedly testify to high engineering. We may then be able to have a mushroom breeding in it instead of using it for heavy traffic. Ladies and gentlemen! That's outsourced money, and that's about huge amounts of tax money. If you believe that the European Union will pay half of it, I must tell you: They obviously did not listen when debated the future financing of infrastructure in the European Union. I have therefore submitted to the Committee on Transport a request for discussion, which includes the requirement that a ban on night-time driving, without exception for low-noise trucks, should be introduced in Austria. Such an application is the result of an investigation procedure, in which the individual In my view, there is a need to examine routes where such a ban on night driving – and these proposals have been in place for a long time. I only remind you that not only have I been in Parliament – and this has been a few years now – but it has been promised again and again throughout the legislative period before that, there is an investigation procedure with regard to a night's ban. If you asked, you didn't see a letter or a digit of it. Either in relation to this night driving ban has never been examined or the results have been so directed against your political protectionist attitude towards heavy traffic operators that they have never reached the public. Explain to me, ladies and gentlemen, where these documents have remained, which has been the result! We urgently need them, and we could then take the decisions immediately and adopt the appropriate measures, because without internal Austrian measures we will no longer find out. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the discussion in the Committee, it was said again and again: Yes, we have the so-called IG air, we can regulate everything possible via the IG air, and the national leaders can then take the appropriate measures. But you do not take into account some conditions because you do not want to take them into account. Unfortunately, I have to take note of this, and this is contrary to all that you promise in election campaigns and election programs and what you always emphasize with the tears in the buttonhole. The IG air alone is much too slow to react to the current situation. The measuring point network is not sufficient for this purpose. The lead times for the IG air are too long and, of course, it is very difficult for national leaders to put the appropriate measures under the pressure of the respective local fan lobby. However, we have the responsibility here for the fact that human health damage can already be detected today along the many busy heavy-duty routes. That's why I'm looking for you again: Voices If you agree to this deadline, please submit to the Committee the relevant documents on the bans on night driving – which you always claim to have them for a long time – and then let us continue to discuss on this basis where, in what context and how exactly these bans on night driving on the Austrian transit routes can and must be adopted! If you are always sorry about how bad our neighbors are to us because they don't let us maintain our restrictions on heavy traffic, then you're wrong. You do not even benefit from your own scope of action, you are not even willing to do what you really need to do, and you will, of course, lose credibility with your interlocutors in the European Union. Mr Gorbach has already said that he wants to extend the IG air and the bans after the IG air from Tirol to Salzburg and Vorarlberg. – Well, he's not in office for a very long time, so maybe he doesn't know that he can't because the IG air is just from another classification. But if he himself says you should extend it, yes, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals: Hurra, the gams! Support Let me ask you this question. Then we do what your Minister announces and what we have long called for in the entire transit debate. The IG air alone is too little for us as a real anti-transit package. We need more and, above all, we need more than a ban on night driving. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I bring some data briefly to illustrate this request again. 1 120 doctors in Tyrol – the doctor's chamber has organized this, I have taken this from an APA report – have protested against the inactivity of transit traffic. They have complained of the bad health situation, especially of children, but also of older people, and they have rightly appealed to the European Union and the Members of Parliament. You also appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, that measures are necessary and must be taken. The noise, which is especially concentrated at night along the motorway belt, can be heard in an Alpine valley not only a hundred meters left and right of the motorway, but after measurements at a sea height of 1 100 meters still with 51 decibels. These are alarming data, ladies and gentlemen, which calls for action! We have had to take 50 percent more heavy traffic on Austria's transit routes since 1991 despite the transit contract. This means that the transit contract was not suitable in its form. But that also means that one can not only slander and reject the others, but that means that measures must also be taken within Austrian territory. That's why I'm asking: Support If you make this request for a deadline, we will sit down in autumn and we will draw up a joint initiative! In part, we have already agreed that we may have a four-party initiative towards the European Union, but you must be active in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise your credibility in this government will be finally ruined at European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15179	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hakl. All other speakers have a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15197	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Transit is a very serious problem. Mrs Lichtenberger, I give you the right if you say it is necessary that we reach a national conclusion across the party borders and that we take a common position, with some points, I suppose, but we can reach agreement. However, I am unfortunately unable to agree to your request for a deadline today, and I would also like to give a detailed explanation. A general ban on night driving throughout Austria would result in us – as you have said – becoming unbelievable in the EU. Our line of argument is and must be to restrict the movement of goods everywhere where, on the basis of a factual difference with the rest of Europe, such a thing is justified by European law. This is the case in the Alpine region, but this is not the case in principle throughout Austria – otherwise it would be the case in principle across Europe. If we want exceptions, we have to justify them objectively. That's why the formulation: in sensitive corridors. Remarkable, I must say, a broadcast of the Upper Austrian Greens of today. “For the Upper Austrian Greens, Tirol is an example of the anti-transit measures,” says Landes Spokesman Rudi Anschober. The bans imposed in Tyrol, which are so differentiated, are sectoral bans, because we are obliged to take effective and adequate means, the most limited means that lead to the desired success – we will not use inadequate means. A sectoral ban on driving is a reasonable means and leads to the desired success, i.e. to the reduction of heavy traffic in Tyrol. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have adopted such a ban on driving, and unlike other European lawyers, I also believe that this ban must be maintained and maintained. There are people and European lawmakers who believe that it would be necessary to use only the harmful trucks as a decision-making criterion. However, I believe that if one forbids scrapping out, that passenger cars, that all non-time-critical goods are transported on the road, because it is absolutely possible to shift their transport to the rail, then it is probably a lynth and at the same time – because a very comprehensive means – also a suitable means to prevent a further increase in heavy traffic where the sensitive space makes this necessary. There it is justified, that is reasonable, that is important, and it is also necessary to extend that to other sensitive corridors in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, however, this is only an emergency nail with which Tyrol is helping. We need a European solution, and this is: The sensitive corridors must require toll supplements on the normal permissible toll, and these supplements must be used in the respective corridor for the expansion of the infrastructure. I hope that we can really meet on this basis in the future, and I am amazed at the vote behaviour of the Greens in the European Parliament, with which they have actually fallen a little behind the sensitive regions. In the vote, you have brought in the concrete members of the SPÖ and ÖVP and FPÖ MEPs in the European Parliament. Amendments in favour of the sensitive corridors are not supported. If the Austrian Greens and their colleagues had done so, we would have reached a majority on this point too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15258	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. – Speaking time: also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15276	Mr President. High house! Mrs Hakl referred to transit as a serious problem. It is also right that it is a serious problem. This has been discussed several times and raised this problem. But this problem obviously does not concern anyone in the Federal Government, because the government bank is empty. – It cannot be said that this serious problem is not perceived by the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] On the occasion of the transit vote in the EU Parliament, Federal Minister Gorbach said that he was very disappointed about this outcome. I share this view and am disappointed. I also share his view that Austria not only has a moral right, but also a right to an agreement. Following the transit agreement. Only: In the EU, but also in the Austrian Federal Government, transit lobbyists such as State Secretary Kukacka are still sitting, who accuses all those who work to protect the Austrian population, especially the Tyrolean people, from the unhindered transit, that here ideology would be at stake and that ideology would not have lost anything; so it happens in the last Transport Committee session. Ecology, ladies and gentlemen, is not ideology. In my opinion, this ÖVP setting is cynical. It is precisely this attitude that has led to the fact that in Europe we have too few allies, that the interest of the chickens within the Austrian People's Party, however, seems to have strong allies. This policy is unbelievable and therefore also failed – to the detriment of the Austrian population and the population along these transit routes. Minister Gorbach's predecessors shot their own door to the damage of Austria and the population damaged by transit. We are fighting for a long-awaited transit compromise, which the predecessor of Gorbach, Mathias Reichhold, under the direction of Federal Chancellor Schüssel, has persistently rejected under Danish EU Presidency. I share the view of Mrs Krawagna-Pfeifer, who wrote the following – I quote – in the standard: "The negotiations on the extension of the transit agreement with the EU have been under way by Austria. Because of superiority, combined with a climate policy, which may be going through in Austria in the absence of critical mass, however, does not make any international impressions. Little convincing” – according to Krawagna-Pfeifer on – “was the poker game of... Copenhagen.” It is known that the chancellor “gathered back his Minister of Transport at the time. ” The consequence of this policy: At the end of the year, the transit contract expires, and there is no new regulation to date. The trucks will enjoy the transit lobby free ride. Austria must therefore seek self-help. Tirol has put in place concrete measures to protect the affected population in accordance with the IG-air with the Head of State, Hannes Gschwentner. The Social Democratic Environment Councillor Gschwentner responded as soon as possible. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links==* Official website In future, therefore, no waste, grain, wood, iron scrap, stones, earth, excavating material or building steel et cetera may be transported. However, we are concerned not only with the protection of the Tyrolean population, but with the protection of the Austrian population along sensitive zones and transit routes as a whole. And here's what it's all about: Transit and burden on the population are the same throughout Austria. Whether you live at Bindermichl in Linz or at the tangent in Vienna, the burden is the same! Rest and health must be our concern. That is why this request for a deadline for the Greens to apply for a general ban on night-traveling for trucks over 7.5 tonnes is correct and necessary and is also supported by social democrats. The fact that the majority of the government has done so in the Transport Committee does not bring about a solution to the transit problem for Austria. Transit will increase by 70 to 75 percent by 2015. In addition, the enlargement of the EU, which will also provide us with an increase in transit traffic on the East-West route. And the EU, the EU Parliament and even the European Commission, calls for the full release of LkW transit traffic by Austria. rich – without at the same time explaining how the necessary reduction of pollution and noise pollution can be achieved permanently and permanently. Ladies and gentlemen! National measures to reduce transit traffic...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15348	Please, I may ask for the final sentence! Talk time is 5 minutes!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15364	... are urgent and immediately necessary. One of them is a general night-time ban on trucks over 7.5 tons. Please agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15391	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Same time of speech: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15409	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lichtenberger, we have discussed in detail the request concerning the ban on night driving in committee. I am surprised that this proposal for a deadline has now been tabled, but I understand that because I know very well how much you want to solve this transit problem in an implementation, we say it that way. That's what we want, too. We Tyroleans are all sensitized. The objectives are probably the same, but we may differ in the implementation of these objectives. ==References== The Novelle road traffic regulation was introduced by the night-trafficking ban. Consideration has been given to the economy, but efforts have been made to put it under pressure by using low-noise trucks. In the past, the economy – and this must be mentioned in praise – has responded very quickly. There was nothing expected from the drop in night traffic due to this novice at the time. As the economy has responded so quickly to the demands, there has been a relatively rapid return to an increase in truck night traffic. The question we ask ourselves: How will we solve the problems involved? I would like to thank transport minister Hubert Gorbach once again for his commitment, because without him the partial step, the innovation of the IG air – a demand from us liberals that has been decided – would not have succeeded. This ensures that national leaders will have to produce catalogues of measures at national level if the limit values are exceeded. Time-limits were used to ensure that these measures are also implemented. For me, transit is not only a Tyrolean problem, but there are many sensitive regions in Austria that are affected in the same way. With the enlargement of the East, there will be a strong increase in traffic. We are all required to steer this traffic into the right lanes. But I would like to address Tyrol in spite of everything. The state government, especially the head of state Herwig van Staa, has the possibility of introducing a general ban on night driving. Originally, this was promised by the head of state and the social democratic head of state Gschwentner. This decision on the ban on night driving has now been re-evaluated, watered by a large number of derogations, and thus The disbelief of Brussels has been strengthened. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Our strong transport minister Hubert Gorbach has achieved that countries have better opportunities to organise measures against transit on their own. But I know that it is easier to shift responsibility to a minister of transport, who has so far done great things on this issue, to act as an independent credible policy for its own national population. It is ridiculous when social democrats are criticizing here in this House and even where they have responsibility, they are unable to make policies for people. Mr Reheis, with the same strength as Mr Gschwentner, you are asking your country's Chief Chief Agent to decide on a general ban on night-time driving without exception, or in the future you are silent on this issue! Our Minister of Transport Hubert Gorbachis hard in the negotiations and with the persistence of a Vorarlberger comes ever closer to the goal. Cross-financing for rail was no longer called into question for the first time by EU Transport Commissioner de Palacio. It has also guaranteed its support for the 20 percent co-financing of the Brenner Base Tunnel. It's thanks to you, dear Hubert, that traffic policy does not stop. As a Tyrolean, I thank you for your help and for the implementation of the Unterinntaltrasse and finally also the Brenner Base Tunnel. I am sure that you will continue to be a competitor for the Tyrolean concerns in order to implement a long-term solution for the transit. Mrs Lichtenberger! We will not support your request for deadlines, as the countries are invited to assume their responsibilities. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that your objectives on transit are the same as mine. Perhaps we have different access from time to time, but finally only the common goal counts. I would also like to take a brief look at our head of state van Staa. It's strange already: There is an invitation to an information event in which the Brenner-Basistunnel project is presented, to which the head of state also cordially invites the Tyrolean representatives of the National Council, namely for the 10th century. July – this is how the head of state van Staa works! – where he knows exactly...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15483	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15498	...that we have National Council meeting today. I “thank you heartily” for this invitation!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15525	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. Speech time: also 5 minutes – including closing. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15544	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Now, at last, the question of transit is being discussed more intensively at the highest level among the “states” of the Minister of Finance – I am saying this in the plural, because the Secretary of State is here too. The essential point – and in this we Greens distinguish ourselves from the previous speakers – is that we are massively criticising that the current regulation, which Minister Gorbach is trying to sell us at least as a semi-successful one, does not provide a ceiling. This is the point we are taking, and this is the starting point for us to want to put other measures in the foreground very strongly now, so that quality of life can be maintained or regained. That is the point: can be regained! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You know exactly: In the sensitive zones in the Alps, the quality of life along the transit routes has long been miserable. But sensitive zones exist not only in the Alps, namely sensitive zones in the truest sense of the word – not in the definition of the EU, not in the definition of any traffic technocrats that take certain geographical conditions as a condition for sensitive zones. Sensitive zones in the truest sense of the word, insofar as there are massively affected people in their living conditions, in their sleeping conditions, in their recovery conditions, there are all over Austria! Above all, she is – and therefore it is very good when Mr Hakl points out this – also in Upper Austria. But nothing is foreseen for these zones and areas where huge numbers of people are affected! There the transit thunders unthinkable from east to west, from west to east! And you all know very well: Not only the southeast tangent is, so to speak, the main road stream, the traffic peak bad in Austria; second, is the West motorway, the A1 is located near Haid in the south of Linz. There in Austria there is the highest amount of transit traffic and also on local traffic after the southeast tangent! [[Abg. May. Hakl: After the burner! ... Inntal!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The burner's better! The load, the number of journeys in Upper Austria is higher than at the burner. [[Abg. May. Hakl shakes his head.]] Read it in the general statistics on transport, on transport, Mrs Hakl! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] You have to get yourself involved in this in detail, so that you can argue in this direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call of the abg. May. Hakl.]] Mrs Hakl, on this occasion I can still point out an incorrectness. They pointed out that the European solution provides virtually toll proposals in sensitive corridors. [[Abg. May. Hakl:...tal!]] That is true, but our point of departure is that we must not only work in sensitive corridors, but also in the area as a whole, because otherwise the Road Costs Directive will not be able to reach out to other shift instruments. You need additional instruments, and you need them everywhere – not only at the burner, not only in the sub-inntal or the Oberinntal, not only in the Tauern, not only on the pyrn line, but in general you need them! Another thing: You have pointed out that when voting in the European Parliament, a request - rightly, I say - was not made by the Greens. That was Raschhofer's request, and it was not the sensitive zones at all! [[Abg. May. Hakl:... Swoboda!]] They claimed that in the application Raschhofer, Swoboda had dealt with the sensitive zones. That's not true! This request contained the limitation on the content of the Euro-3 trucks, so that they should also be regulated. That's correct, but you kind of mixed it up. [[Abg. May. Molterer:...! You can't talk about this green blamage! I can't!]] In the same way, in various other areas, you also mix the approach to the transport problem created by the heavy traffic of transit. Mix and make little grip, that's your way. We want gripping instruments – and gripping instruments are instruments that affect everyone! In this context, I am still referring to the question of credibility: A general ban on night-time driving for domestic and foreign trucks, that would be credibility! The fact that our position in Brussels has always failed was that at national level the Tyroleans wanted to have different rules on the Inntal motorway - the former Federal Minister and current Member Dr. One knows that - than were intended for European trucks. That was the break of credibility in Brussels for us. As a result, the problem has begun that there is virtually no successor contract for the transit contract. This is the problem, and we can now finally deal with this by showing credibility at the general ban on night driving by introducing it for domestic and foreign trucks.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15650	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15665	That is why – and this is my conclusion –: Let's do it together!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15703	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. We shall come to the vote. We shall vote on the request from the Transport Committee to report to the Council on the 19/A amendment to the road transport regulations, tabled by Mrs Lichtenberger, a deadline until 19. In September of this year, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to show this by a sign. . I note that the request was largely rejected. We have thus ended the short debate on the deadline request. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15740	We are now continuing negotiations on item 7 of the agenda. President. — The debate is closed. Grasser. He's been talking for six minutes. Its remaining speaking time is therefore 14 minutes before the allocation system for the other political groups enters into force. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15762	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. Mr State Secretary! I was able to carry out earlier, in detail, that we have carried out a truly transparent and objective award on the question of the Bundeswohnungen or the corresponding investment bank. I would like to continue by stating that we have involved experts both in procurement law and in business experts in order to ensure the best possible economic outcome in terms of the performance underlying this call for tender. We were able to achieve an improvement in the cost-benefit ratio on the one hand through cost reduction and, on the other hand, by increasing the performance offered. In this context, I would like to stress once again that the success of the negotiations has far exceeded the costs incurred by these experts in this respect, as well as in the other issues. That means, every euro, ladies and gentlemen, was really well arranged here, a multiple has come back. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] There was no opposition to the award of this invitation to tender, which means that it has been carried out very professionally, transparently and objectively. I would like to point out that the experts have proposed an evaluation system. 100 points were awarded, broken down to 0,05 points; this assessment scheme assessed the tenders taking into account the results of the negotiations and then the award decision was taken. The first occurrence of this very transparent, objective procedure was in all variants Lehman Brothers: There was a main offer, where Lehman Brothers had 81.64 points. There was an alternative offer 1, where Lehman Brothers had 83.26 points, and there was an alternative offer 2, where Lehman Brothers had 82.14 points. The second place reached 79.05 points with its best offer. That means, Lehman Brothers was clearly the best bidder. It is on the one hand cost of €8.5 million if the shares of the companies are sold; if there is a securitisation, i.e. a securitisation, cost of €10.5 million. The most expensive offer, ladies and gentlemen – because you sometimes questioned the ratio of performance and consideration – amounted to €16 million with an additional success fee of 1.5 percent of the sales price. That means that you would have actually come to an order of over €30 million. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] [[Deputies Gaál and Eder each hold an issue of the “profile” with the title headlines “Grasser scandal” and “Reif for withdrawal”.]] You have asked why we have joined an international investment bank here. I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen: They will not find a real estate transaction of this magnitude throughout the world, which will be handled without such an investment bank, because this is not only absolutely common, but also necessary to achieve the best result for the taxpayer. We've done the right thing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have acted correctly, ladies and gentlemen, because such international investment banks have an accurate knowledge of the capital markets, because they have ongoing contact with potential buyers of the housing portfolios and, of course, because they can ensure a value-optimizing privatisation. You attacked Lehman Brothers. Mr Kogler asked: What kind of investment bank is that? – Ladies and gentlemen! Lehman Brothers was selected by the experts, among other things, because it is the leading investment bank in the field of international privatisations and real estate transactions. Let me give you a few examples: Beni Stabili was handled by Lehman Brothers when selling the Telemaco property portfolio. Transaction value: 1 billion €. Or: 160 Swisscom buildings – Swiss Property. Transaction value: 1.3 billion Swiss francs. Lehman Brothers was the number two among all European real estate transactions with more than 20 percent market share in 2002. Lehman was first and foremost among all investment banks during the real estate securitisations in 2002. You're excited with us, but I can tell you: For example, the Italian Ministry of Finance has contributed to the exploitation of SCIP, the real estate portfolio with a transaction value of €2.3 billion, Lehman Brothers. [[Abg. Dr. One: This is a good example!]] [[Abg. Eder: Berlusconi!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: This is a reference!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[More recently, MEPs Gaál and Eder keep copies of the “profile” with the title headlines “Grasser scandal” and “Reif for withdrawal” in height.]] It has the British Ministry of Finance... – I take note that you only scandalize and do not want to hear any arguments. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] However, I will continue to make my remarks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the UK, ladies and gentlemen: Transaction volume: 1.3 billion British pounds and on the other hand a second order over 0.5 billion British pounds for the Canary Wharf securitisations. You know that Lehman has commissioned subcontractors: the investment bank CA-IB, the law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and other subcontractors. In total, this consortium ensures the best possible execution of this privatisation. One knows the international investors, one knows the capital market, one knows the Austrian environment, one has relevant experience in the evaluation and sale of large real estate portfolios. All in all, more than 60 people from these companies have been working on this privatisation. A comprehensive is-analysis has been carried out, a data space has been created, a business evaluation has been carried out for each of the five housing companies. [[Abg. Eder: Everything unnecessary! Unnecessarily!]] We are talking here in total of 61 824 apartments, we are talking about 432 commercial units, 41 special properties, over 4 million square meters of built properties and over 5 million square meters of unbuilt land. [[Abg. Eder: They will be shipped!]] That means that in total this is simply a very complex task, in which it is clear that this form is to be done. I bet, ladies and gentlemen: If we had done it the other way around – which would not have been possible – if we had said that we were selling it hand-knit from the Ministry of Finance, then you would have come and said: I'm not responsible for how to deal with the wealth here! – I can assure you: We have done correct, correct and in the interest of the taxpayer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't want to leave your opinions in the room either. Mr Muhr and Mr Plech were referred to. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress: Karlheinz Muhr has not received any mediation commission from us against your statements! [[Abg. Eder: What is the name of the new...?]] He didn't get any euros from the Republic of Austria! He never got an order from the Ministry of Finance under my responsibility, because I pay close attention to the fact that I don't get acquaintances from me in any form from the Ministry of Finance. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You've been talking to Ernst Pelch. I would also like to say here, ladies and gentlemen, that a real estate expert is sitting in a Supervisory Board. [[Abg. Eder: He “came up by chance ”!]] I'll tell you: I am a real estate expert much better than your political officials who used to be in the supervisory councils! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You put in countrymen, you put mayors in. We won't do that anymore! I would also like to say the following very clearly: I said to Ernst Pelch at the time: If you take it upon yourself to go to these Supervisory Boards, you must be aware that you will never receive an order from the Ministry of Finance at the time you are represented there! – He has not been commissioned by the Ministry of Finance under all my responsibility. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: The selection of our consultants is all right. [[Abg. Eder: €600 000 for the Ministry of Justice!]] I can also assure you – but we do not need your advice – that a serious sheet as a real estate expert is good if he is involved in selecting an investment bank to conduct the professional debate. [[Abg. Eder: The Riemergasse is not...?]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Riemergasse!]] That's what I'm standing for. The fact that when it comes to investor contacts, when it comes to selling directly, it will not play a role, will not sit there, will not be involved, is of course for us. We value this clear separation, which we have always observed and enforced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In terms of content, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that it was reserved for this Federal Government and this parliamentary majority to amend the housing law in such a way that it was possible for tenants to buy apartments for the first time. You have always prevented the tenants from buying the apartments! [[Abg. Eder: This is not true! That's not true at all!]] We have enforced it that tenants are given the opportunity to acquire property because we do not have an ideological problem with it, just as you obviously did. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Eder: I don't know...! You have no idea! Really not!]] And we have ensured that there is no change in the status of tenants. This means, of course, that the protection provisions of the housing public utility law for the tenants remain fully up to date. That's what we've been assuranced at every stage. But we have, on the basis of fundamental conviction, launched an important action. We said: Rental is not in the nature of people; Buy if possible and manageable, but of course you do. [[Abg. Eder: That must not be true!]] That's where we started the action: “Living rental – your security. Buy your apartment – your chance.” I'll tell you: We are fully in the trend with this action. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neudeck.]] Over 90 percent of Austrians want to live in their own four walls because they know: [[Abg. Eder:...! Who doesn't want that?]] In the case of property, the possibility of an increase in the value, the provision of pensions, the security it provides, the independence which it conveys. [[Between calls at the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] [[Abg. Eder keeps the output of the “profile” with the title line “Grasser-Scandal” up.]] I can tell you that the demand for rental apartments has fallen significantly in recent years. Nearly 70 percent of the new construction performance in the building and residential areas took place. 70 per cent, ladies and gentlemen! It is also very clear that there is obvious demand from the population in this area. [[Abg. Gaál keeps the issue of the “profile” with the title line “Reif for withdrawal” in height.]] We have offered in a range of 10 to 20 percent below the market value of these apartments for sale, and we have so far sold up to 1 200 apartments de facto. They ask: Why not? [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: Of 62 000!]] – Not of 62 000, ladies and gentlemen, but of 36 000 tenants in December 2000 we offered these apartments for sale. Of these, 1 200 have been sold so far. I give you the right – we also thought it could be more. But on the other hand, you have to see that the rental price per square meter in these apartment portfolios is on average between €2 and €2.60. That's why it's clear that you're saying: If I have such a cheap rent, I might be buying less. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: If you accuse us that too few apartments have been sold, then I can tell you that such actions have, for example, been made A great No by the tenants' association, whose chairman is – quite “notablely” – Mrs Bures, who has turned to the tenants in many hangouts, campaigns and insecure actions, saying that this transaction should not take place, which has been insecure and then excited us that we are not selling apartments! [[the speaker holds a card with the title “No for the sale of apartments”]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a double-beddedness that reveals very clearly what you really have in mind here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you: In fact, you have not only damaged the tenants with these actions, but you have also damaged the Republic of Austria because you have prevented us from selling the apartments to the tenants as much as possible. [[Call the SPÖ:You! You!]] Mr Eder, perhaps you should not go out, because you gave a speech earlier, in which you said it was more than a scandal, it was a shame, as we have done here. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... you have scandal...!]] It has already been addressed – but I have to spread a little on this question –: 1997! What was Your interest in 1997? Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder and Comrades have submitted a request to authorise the Minister of Finance to sell three non-profit housing companies, namely the "Common Local Railways Company Linz", the "Common Local Railways Company in Villach" and the "Utilisation Society of the ÖBB". [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Eder? Ah!]] [[Abg. Eder: Yes!]] [[Abg. Eder: Yes!]] [[Abg. Eder: Yes!]] [[Abg. Eder: Not for sale! Read it carefully! Not to sell!]] – Yes, I read this to you exactly: “The Federal Minister for Finance...” – You wanted a reading, so listen briefly – I quote –: “§ 1. The Federal Minister for Finance is authorised, on behalf of the federal government, to all the shares held by the federal government” of these companies that I mentioned “in compliance with the provisions” and so on – now it comes! – “to “sell” at the respective nominal value of the share” in the aforementioned societies. – That is, sell and sell to those three societies! [[Abg. Eder:... to be transferred!]] [[Abg. Eder: Yes!]] [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Abominable!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Read more!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] You should let this scandal break on the tongue, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Edlinger has answered the following question here in Parliament: These three societies would have – his words! – a “traffic value” of 12.2 million Schilling! That is how he has put it on record in a reply to a question. 12,2! I think that's too high, but you even wanted to sell these companies for just 180 million schilling! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Awesome!]] They wanted to give it and damage the taxpayers! [[Ah-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We do the opposite! We are acting in the interest of the taxpayer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Newly lively calls to the SPÖ.]] They are excited that a Ernst Karl Plech is sitting in a Supervisory Board. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen: This too is very interesting!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16315	Mr Grasser, I should like to make a brief statement so that no one can say that I am not holding back from speaking time. In a debate as we are now leading them, every speaker has 20 minutes. However, a minister can speak for a longer time, only then does any club wishing to express a dissenting opinion also have a speaking time extended to the extent of this overrun. That means: If social democrats, Greens, Liberals or the ÖVP wish to express divergent opinions, they may express this to the extent of the over-examination in accordance with § 57 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure. That's why the light shines, but the Minister can speak further. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16334	I will take a short look, ladies and gentlemen, and I would just like to explain to you the following: Managing Director of the company that was looking forward to buying, so to speak, the buyer, were first ÖBB staff, namely Kurt Hellweger and Franz Kiener. Secondly, both were also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the companies to be sold. [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman:Yes ho!]] That means: The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of a company to be sold, out of the assets of taxpayers whose traffic value is Rudi Edlinger with 12.2 billion €, a Supervisory Board Chairman, who is certainly a Social Democratic official, has ensured that these companies for 180 million schilling instead of a value as the taxpayer owes them – according to Rudi Edlinger 12.2 billion €, 12 200 million €! –, sold! [[Deputies Dr. Fekter and Dr. Fassleven: This is a scandal!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Don't vote!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Don't vote!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Don't vote!]] That's what you wanted to do! [[Abg. Eder: That's a fool what you're saying!]] I'll tell you: That's a scandal, that's a shame, that's Keyei, that's the attempt to damage the Republic and taxpayers! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to stress: The Federation – and Parliament – was at all times fully informed of the procedure or the master of the procedure. We have made two Council of Ministers lectures, we have always fully informed about the project process. We have done absolutely right, flawless, exemplary! We have put great emphasis on the fact that this sale of the shares does not mean that the tenants are not bad. We have thus been in the Austrian interest, in the interest of taxpayers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16478	Ladies and gentlemen! The overlay of the speaking time is 3 minutes. So much is allowed to any group that wants to take advantage of this. – By the way, I will look at the Stenographical Protocol. Mr Puswald is speaking on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16526	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance has just quoted the 1997 bill and has spoken about the requested “sales”. – This quote is factual and legally wrong. [[Call the ÖVP: divestment!]] The text of the application was – quite correctly; I see, one is aware of the circumstances – on ‘salesing’. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] The reason was on transfer of the shares to cooperatives and thus the economic stay in the ownership of the tenants. That is why the statements made by the Minister of Finance are wrong!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16564	Mr Finanzminister Mag spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Grasser reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16588	Since an actual correction should serve to find out the truth, I would like to ask you again... [[Abg. Arbitrators: He cannot speak to the actual correction! It's not allowed!]] I would like to speak on the request...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16621	Member of the Arbitrator! The Federal Minister cannot, of course, report himself to an actual correction. He spoke. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But for an answer to them he cannot say either. It's not allowed!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – That’s a very delicate question. But as long as I have not heard the Minister speak, I cannot judge the content of his speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16659	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am simply concerned that there has been a number of sales intensities over the past few years. [[Abg. May. Posch: The call for order is still...!]] One of these intentions was in 1997 to empower the then Federal Minister for Finance to take such a step. At that time, the text – I can read it again – read: “The Federal Minister for Finance is authorised, on behalf of the federal government, to grant all the shares in the ‘joint rail settlement company Linz, GesmbH’, to the ‘GesmbH Joint Local Railway Company in Villach’ and the housing company of ÖBB’s Non-profit GesmbH.’, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Law of 8. On March 1, 1979, on the common good in the housing sector, other federal laws have been referred to as ‘at the relevant nominal value of the share in the ‘Communication-based general building, housing and settlement cooperative’, the ‘joint railway settlement company Linz, GesmbH’, the ‘common railway settlement company GesmbH in Villach’ as well as the ‘dwelling company of the ÖBB, non-profit community’. [[Yes-Rufe at the SPÖ]] [[Ah Rufe at ÖVP]] “ – Quote. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I note that so that these three housing companies mentioned above would have left the property and sphere of influence of the Republic of Austria and would have migrated to an area that is very close to social democracy. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Wrong!]] I would also like to say that the text of the statement is – I quote – the following: "This Federal Act empowers the Federal Minister for Finance to sell the shares in the above-mentioned non-profit housing companies at the nominal value of the shares in the above-mentioned non-profit housing companies. “ – Quote. That means: The explanatory statement also mentions “solders. ” [[Abg. May. Posch: You need advice! You don't know each other at all!]] I wanted to present this again correctly so that you know how you tried in 1997 to damage the Republic of Austria. We are going another way, in the interests of the Republic!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16755	High house! The term of office for political groups with a different opinion is now 4 minutes. [[Abg. Bures: Now we know why he needs a consultant company! Because he doesn't know himself!]] I'm asking you to enter that into the computer. [[Abg. May. Posch: (in the direction of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser) That's why you spent €10 million on consulting activities!]] As far as Mr Posch's request for an order is concerned, I will look at the Minutes, namely whether Members of the House have recently received a call for order for the term'shifting', and then of course this will be dealt with in a completely equal manner. [[Abg. Bures: “Schierei”!]] If this is not the case, it will be treated equally. I think it is only possible to proceed this way: by the same standards and the same principles! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. I'll give him the word. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16828	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Eder! My colleague Bures, it's rare, but I'm speechless. It's really a scandal! They now follow the word “sold out. ” I have to say quite honestly: If the Federal Minister for the word “move” gets a call for order, I would like to share it. [[Call the SPÖ: “Schweiberei”!]] It's a move of state resources into your dark circle. [[Abg. May. Posh!]] You have led the “consumer” into the ruin, you have shuddered around in the BUWOG, you have sat your friends in all societies, but credit that this Federal Minister, who serves himself independently, is supposedly serving his circle of friends. [[Call the SPÖ:Rosenstingl!]] For years you have provided your friends in these societies and from these companies you have provided your friends with apartments! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] According to the Minister of Finance's speech, it is no longer necessary to bring the ladies and gentlemen back here in the house of the "high flights" and "scandals" to which she has tried to lead Kogler – and oillingers after me will continue – because he has put the facts on the table. He has made clear a transparent award. [[Abg. Owl: It's all wrong! You don't know the law of non-profit!]] But that is what is particularly disturbing you about the opposition, namely that he has penetratingly listed in his responses to the questions of the last months, how these awards have been made, and what additional revenues could be achieved by these consultants. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, which one?]] Money, wealth of the state, which has been badly “treated” in your dark circle for decades, is properly managed and sold by this minister and his deliberations. [[Abg. May. Worm: All friends...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kummerer said earlier that there was once a liberal housing cooperative, which is now no longer available. That's really a curiosum. There was such a cooperative. [[Abg. May. Worm: Chairman: Rosenstingl! Or?]] And I think that was the only cooperative in Austria that cost a party money. Everyone else is heading in the other direction. It is common practice that there is money from these companies to the parties via advertisements, loan contracts or other constructions. That wasn't the case with the FPÖ! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You have fled with this!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the SPÖ and the Greens are going out of here and panicting, they have not read the report of the Financial Committee. They were present. It says – I quote –: "In accordance with the Law on non-profit-making of housing, the existing rules on renting interest rates apply without prejudice to the housing of the companies which are excluded from the public utility. The currently favourable level of rent among the federal housing companies therefore remains guaranteed for the future for existing contractual relations.” [[Abg. May. Worm: Only those with the... contracts!]] There is also – and the electorate should hear what panic you are doing here – in the report of the Financial Committee the following statement – I quote: ‘The sale of shares does not have an impact on the rental conditions or on the applicable law. A new owner can in no way intervene in the existing contracts. There is therefore no wrong with the tenants.” – Buying does not break rent! It also says: ‘No intervention in existing contracts’, ‘As the housing public utility law also regulates rents for new rents, these tenants are also protected in their social expectations by selling the shares.’ In addition, both sales and securitisation – i.e. the sale of revenue in the coming years – were provided for in this advisory agreement. It is quite possible that the State will continue to retain the ownership of these companies and obtain a profit from the sale of rental income or from the securitisation of these rental income. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is not the social housing!]] However, it is particularly important that the current management is replaced so that it is managed and managed in accordance with ordinary commercial guidelines.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17035	Mr Eder spoke in favour of an actual correction. He is aware of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17067	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! The Federal Minister has claimed that an application would have been filed, including the sale of three housing companies, namely Villacher, Linzer and Wiener. - It's never been disputed. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Wrong was the interpretation that the Federal Minister gave of it! [[Call the ÖVP: Rules of Procedure!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! At the time, this request was formulated with the ÖVP – Mr. Stumpfully looking already very serious. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Gottfried Feurstein has prevented this!]] Rather, it is true – to what Mr Finanzminister has said – that at the time we very much wanted to bring three companies into a new housing cooperative, so that the tenants remain secure in the WGG's residential cycle. [[Abg. Mr Partik-Pablé: Mr President! What kind of correction is this?]] What we'd done would be no harm to the tenants. Your measure is now very damaging 60 000 tenants!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17156	Mr. Eder, you've already made it a little difficult for me, I have to say. [[Call the ÖVP: A little?- Oh, my God!]] The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17188	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I would no longer like to comment on the fact that the Federal Minister today called the criticism, the attacks of the opposition as an attempt of criminalization, a dirty dowel campaign. I am also not interested in whether it is appropriate to call for order when the Federal Minister says “Schieberei”, “Gaunery”. [[Abg. Jacob Auer: “Gaunery ” he did not say!]] However, I would like to make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that it is the inalienable right of the opposition to practice criticism of a Federal Minister if he has deserved it! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: But he didn't deserve it!]] Remember this, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! We will not like the fact that the Federal Minister, who is being attacked, is here on his own issue on the opposition and calling it a criminalizer! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Grasser – and I’m going to quote a lot of him today, I don’t need any own reviews at all – said in an interview with the ORF that the question is always: What is “private ”? - Yes, exactly! That is the question that this Federal Minister must ask himself! What is “private ”? What is “public ”? What about your actions, what about what you are accused of, goes to your private cap? And for what, so to speak, is the Republic responsible? You, Mr. Minister, have already said: State – bad owner! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I didn't say today!]] You repeat that more often; well, you didn't say it today, but in your statement on the budget a few weeks ago. What we blame you, Federal Minister, is that you are a very bad administrator of this public property. And what we also blame you for is that you always do business out of your personal relationships and over your personal relationships, whether they are made in the interest of the Republic or in the interest of the friends of Karl-Heinz Grasser, refuse to answer! You have already been asked by Mr Kogler – and the question is justified – today: Why, Mr Federal Minister, do you not disclose where the revenue, the funds for your homepage, from which you want to know nothing now and which you personally distance, comes from? Where did the expenditure go? Did you give any answer? - No! There is no sound for whom the donations have come from, what has happened to the money, where the money has gone! I would, however, like to make a few comments on what you, Federal Minister, said to your friend Mr Karlheinz Muhr earlier, before I go into the question of the homepage. You explained here that Karlheinz Muhr didn't get an order. Possible! But now I am reading to you what you have said, ‘NEWS’: “I invited him next to others to make a proposal to which companies I should invite for this task.” – Federal Minister, did you not know or know that Karlheinz Muhr is a consultant for Lehman Brothers? [[Abg. Brosz: (in the direction of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser) Is that an order or not?]] You continued today saying that Muhr did not get a commission from the Federal Ministry. [[Abg. Eder: Of course he knows all this!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grass]] – Mr Federal Minister, that was not the question, but it is at least the question: Did Mr. Muhr get a commission from Lehman Brothers? – You should give an answer to this! You know that, too, Minister of State! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, please don't think we're so stupid that we don't know what we're asking for. And don't ask false questions so you can then give yourself the incorrect answers to questions we haven't asked. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Say!]] Please answer the question about your homepage! [[Abg. Eder:... for down!]] Answer the question of the commissions that Mr Muhr has received! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] All right, let's leave the subject! They claim that the best company has been commissioned: Best bidder Lehman Brothers – only we would have liked to know according to what criteria! Mr Federal Minister, we already have our experience with your selection procedures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] I can still remember that in ordering the ÖIAG Supervisory Board a company was commissioned, Egon Zehnder, who then randomly, simply randomly chose exactly so that the group of friends of Mr. National Council President Principality has become Supervisory Councillor. I can also recall, Mr. Federal Minister, that about half a year ago, again on the recommendation of Mr. Prinzhorn, but also with a staff consulting firm that was commissioned for expensive money by you, €20 000, €30 000, for the company AWS a managing director was selected, which comes from the Freundeskreis Prinzhorn – chance... Percival Pachta-Rayhofen. [[Abg. Ing. Chapel: Tax payment!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: What's his name? What's his name, please?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: I don't know, I'm sorry!]] You don't know him – wonderful! If you don't know him, calm me down, then the responsibility alone lies with Mr Grasser. The bad luck in this selection is – and this is why staff consulting can sometimes happen – that Mr Percival Pachta-Rayhofen, despite a selection by the staff consulting of Mr Finanzminister, has already been divorced from office after half a year as Managing Director of the AWS. He has been separated from him because for half a year the AWS has not worked – this is what the media says – and the Minister of Finance commissions a new staff consulting company, this time of course again Egon Zehnder, with the selection of a new Managing Director at AWS – again 20 000 €! All of this is in a question answer – you can find it among herbs, bures, matznetter – in which the Minister also believes that we have to calculate the added value that the Republic derives from these consulting activities organised by the Minister of Finance in the circus. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Percival Pachta-Rayhofen sues his five-year-old contract? That this may cost hundreds of thousands of euros? Where do you write the responsibility for this project into this answer? Second point, very briefly, sale of the Austrian Federal Republic: KPMG was commissioned to read 140,000 € – that was to be read in the media – cost this advice. It will be 780 000 €! It was sold – and this is to be read in the request response – by €24 million. In other words, the Minister of Finance says: 24 million € is the profit for the Republic! Don't you know, Minister of the Federal Government, that in a trust agreement the acquirer can count one million of the €24 million – €23 million – and that the purchase price will not be due now if it has been sold, but for the most part only in 2006, so that the actual purchase price is €20 million? – 20 million €! Then count the € 780 000 for KPMG, which accounts for 3.24 percent of the 24 million. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Was a great sale!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: A madness!]] However, they claim that the consulting costs are based on the transaction value and are within a range of 1 to 1.5 percent. We now hold 3 to 4 percent, and that's where you say: That was a great... [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Super sale!]] “Super Sale” You yourself – thank you, Mr. Federal Minister, for delivering the keyword! You yourself said three months before the sale: 50 million € believe To be able to redeem them. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I didn't say!]] That's from you, Minister of State! Do not try to re-establish child-moving as often as you do. You said this just as you said here in the house: “This homepage is my private and personal homepage.” You said that here in the house. Two weeks later, you say: “I have nothing to do with the homepage, for which an association is responsible.” [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He already said that!]] You have said here in the house that you can rule out that anyone involved in a promotion by the Ministry of Finance has paid money to this homepage. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That is not true, Mr Deputies!]] Two weeks after this statement, you say: You don't even know who paid you. Mr. Federal Minister, where are you looking for the truth? [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: A little fat is that!]] On that day, by noticing what you don't want to say? Or don't you finally want to give Parliament pure wine? – I am afraid, Minister of State, it is too late for that. You cannot separate between your personal area and public tasks. This is not your personal and private problem, it is the problem of this republic. That's why you should resign, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17491	Mr Mag, Federal Minister, spoke very briefly. Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17509	Thank you many times, Mr President. – It is my concern to use a language that is not worthy of a call for order. Therefore, I withdraw the term “shift. ” [[Call the SPÖ:And “Gaunery ”?]] - I didn't say!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17535	I checked the stenographic protocol. This expression has been used. The problem lies in the fact that a Member of this House has received a call for order for this expression, other Members have also used this expression and have not received a call for order. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Has different meanings!]] That means how you do it, you do it wrong – unless the Federal Minister withdraws this accusation from his own mind. I recognize and respect that. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Hoscher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17563	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I will try to avoid the expression “moving. ” – Mr Federal Minister, you yourself have addressed the railway housing companies. I think this is a subject where you should have been better informed by your officials. This is a subject on which the shot will go back at the end of the day. Perhaps briefly on the request you have referred to: One fact is that the transfer would have taken place from a non-profit housing association to another non-profit housing association. [[Abg. Jacob Auer: A sale!]] Say calmly to “solding. ” To a non-profit person – that is to say, that would have remained in the non-profit housing sector and would not have been accessible to private economic exploitation, as you are planning it now! That's the essential difference! - Fact one. Fact two: It is true that the sale would have taken place at the nominal. However, it is stupidly stated in the law that this can only be done so, and stupidly the ÖVP has also agreed. Mr President, I remember very well this meeting of the Financial Committee, in which we discussed on the verge of this issue, that the EIA has agreed. The only reason why this transaction did not come about was that the municipalities involved could not agree with each other and that ÖVP and SPÖ were of the opinion at the time: if not all the local authorities agree, then this transaction will not be carried out. - Fact two. Fact three: As already said, ÖVP's agreement! That means that this would have been a completely different subject, in a completely different legal and economic field. But if you are already addressing the railway rental companies: The real scandal is actually buried there – but in the current procedure! Because, as you know, the transfer you are planning here is simply and completely illegal. It is illegal because the Constitutional Court annulled the pre-arrangement of the deadline in respect of the discharge from public utility! This has a significant impact on one of the railway rental companies, namely the WBG. As you know, there have been sales of shares of two Styrian communities, in a housing cooperative also in the non-profit sector, and then, strangely, the attempt of a staff member of your home to order retroactively in the Supervisory Board of this company and retroactively to reverse the sale decision – something that has now also been abolished by the courts! This leads us to the conclusion that the WBG is currently – and here both the request and the report of the Financial Committee is simply wrong – being non-profitable and therefore unable to be used at all, especially since a corresponding decision of the Vienna State Government is expected to be taken, this decision, after all legal experts at least in the last instance, will prove to be valid, and will therefore result in significant claims for damages on the Republic of Austria – but not only in the Republic of Austria, but in the final analysis, if this fact and this list of illegalities are not included in Lehman Brothers' opinion, these claims for damages also apply to Lehman Brothers! A well-informed Council therefore concludes: If you really want to pass this law today, take out the railway rental companies! Because the corresponding official liability procedure is pre-programmed.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17606	The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17627	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Kogler, in turn, made a request to distrust the Minister of State, Mr Grasser. Nothing new was in there! The successful work of the Federal Minister cannot be resisted objectively and professionally, now one is trying in a different way. May I remind you: Budget stabilisation, family policy, economic policy, export success must be reconciled with the Federal Minister and the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But because one has nothing to do with the Federal Minister, one tries against the government as a whole. I was astounded – today, Commissioner Oellinger has already directed a spearhead against President Prinzhorn, obviously because he knew: He can't do anything there, and probably less there. There is nothing left, this request will be a flop, ladies and gentlemen. An attempt is being made to launch a dirty dome campaign; I'm not allowed to use "fucks" because that would call for an order. It is tried to put over Mr. Grasser's political inaccuracy, the business of friends, the looser handling of tax money, and money would be spent on self-advertising. [[Demonstrative applause with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That's being said loud, and then it's applause; yes, the SPÖ applauds in the duet. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] For both opposition parties, ladies and gentlemen also on the left side, however: Not strong in the matter, but loud in tone! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Inhibited by unproven accusations, but without substance – that is too little, ladies and gentlemen! We clearly stand with Federal Minister Grasser and with this successful government. Your application goes empty and is rejected! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Again! But wait, Mr Auer!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, especially on the left, how was that once? – Memory is stated: Federal Chancellor Vrannitzky, free flights were there once, eleven proven, at the expense of the WestLB. There was a list of these free flights, which was much larger than to the extent of eleven proven ladies and gentlemen on the left! “First free flights”, headlined newspapers, “then consul” of this bank WestLB! There one could ask how inconsistency was lived, as one today, so to speak, represents the great innocence. That would be requested, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens:Research Committee!]] Or the accusation to Mr. Grasser, Federal Minister, advisers would be involved; the cost of a huge amount of money is claimed. [[Abg. Oillinger: Investigation Committees Grasser and Vrnitzky! Let's look at who more...!]] I read with enthusiasm in a “NEWS” article, in which Mr. Worm – and this has not always been the case for a few years; earlier he was even a member of the ÖVP, but for some years he has made this closeness clear, he is relatively distant – in a report it is clear that Mr. Grasser has done well with this advice money or with the fees he has spent on these consultants, because it comes back several times! But perhaps you could also remember your privatisations, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! This would also have been interesting: Your privatizations. I remember the CA invitation to tender: “Climate surprises about the criticism,” but then restarts – ladies and gentlemen, we were not just successful! “No capital after new flop”, “How it continues now” – even under the aegide climate, and so on, and so on. It would also be interesting to think about it in connection with Bank Austria: How high was the price value of this stock when it was sold? And how high is he today? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Read the “Kurier” of tomorrow: 29 €, Stock exchange classification: no future outlook. – You could think about successful privatisations and perhaps take certain bonds here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Once you, ladies and gentlemen from the left, the SPÖ, needed consultant, that was before the bankruptcy of the “consumer”. You would have needed consultants, and you obviously didn't have one, but you had some supervisory councils. I call you one who was sitting here, Mr Hobl. You would have needed consultants, then this country would have been much spared! [[Abg. Grandruck: 20 years...!]] But perhaps it is true that in today's "Kurier" by Mr. Pammesberger, it is a beautiful cartoon: “Opposition, that’s kind of like vacation!” Go inside and try to make better requests here. They urgently need this. We're on Federal Minister Grasser!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17749	The next speaker is Mr Keck. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17767	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen at the Ministerial Bank! High house! Mr Finanzminister! It is not the role of colleague Bures as chairman of the "Mietervereinigung", but rather strange is your role in the homepage financing, your role is strange when buying the Eurofighters and your role in the sale of the ÖIAG companies is strange. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, thanks be to God there is an Upper Austrian Land Day, which was held at his meeting on 3 October. In July, together with the SPÖ, FPÖ and the Greens, they decided to make a majority request, which states that if the voestalpine is sold, 25 percent plus a share must remain in the possession of the public hand. What is good in Upper Austria in the Landtag can only be right here in the National Council, which is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ and the Greens! Do it like your Upper Austrian party friends in the Upper Austrian Landtag, and agree to our motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17826	The application is properly supported and is therefore part of the negotiation. The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17848	Mr Finanzminister! You need, as today's debate has once again shed light on this, an additional consultant company to make a value statement for the sale of BUWOG apartments, and that costs around 140 million schillings – in old currency. And then you say that would be in the interest of taxpayers? – You’re a waste, Minister of Finance, you’re a waste! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: What are you?]] Mr Finanzminister, you are also a wastelander in many other areas, and unsocially above all, because if you can now use these apartments cost-effectively and you change the WGG afterwards, your rents will increase. - That's unsocial! So you are a non-social waste, Mr Finanzminister, and you should know this because you lack a little self-reflection, as has been shown today. Moreover, you are not a courageous finance minister, because you have just announced to us today that you are actually apologizing today. Then the ÖVP brags with a urgent one, whose need can really be different within the ÖVP. That's how time passes, and you're slipping more and more out of the media political prime time. And now we have about 18.45 a.m. – if you’re still “breading”, we’re coming out beyond 7.30 p.m., then the “ZiB 1” is also gone – and so try... [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Shit!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You do it!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: I didn't say that!]] - No, no! I'm just telling you: It's just a kind of cowardice, because you just don't want to talk to the public. The Minister of Finance has had the kindness to come by just now to discuss the subject with your help as late as possible – he is not here at all tomorrow. Then he makes himself and is brave at the wrong moment when he says: Dirty Campaign of the Opposition! – In reality, he also insults the numerous journalists who have been trying for days to bring light into the dark and finally bring us clarity. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Journalists will bring clarity into the matter, you don't believe that yourself!]] What does the Minister of Finance conceal us?, is the crucial question, please. What does he hide from us? And: Why is this not interested in the ÖVP?, that is the second interesting question in this context. – Above all, this probably does not interest those who have a close relationship with the industrial association, especially because they probably know it very well. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Which journalists should bring light to the matter? From ‘NEWS’? From “standard”?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If the Minister of Finance had an interest in cutting the light on his homepage or at the Association for New Economy, he would have read to us: Where does this association's revenue come from? What else has flown in except the promotion of the industrial union in order to obtain a corresponding political counter-performance? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The surplus of Euroteam!]] What else went into the club? Is there anything else? What happened to the money? – Mr Finanzminister, why don’t you tell us that, otherwise you have been so talkative here on the government bank – in some situations so talking that the club people and some Members have become almost pale – so you could really give us more information. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Haven't you been watching today?]] Well, because you're just so brave: You can be courageous today. You have a chance to be courageous today! We are bringing in a motion of censure, and we believe that it is well justified on the basis of the many discussions that exist here. We know that discipline machinery is running in both political groups – we know that too. We also put the request for a secret vote – we want this request to be voted in secret – and then we would mean – and there is courage in that: Raise the club force in the ÖVP! Raise the force of clubs in the FPÖ! Say yes to the secret vote, and release the vote! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Violent calls at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I fear – I fear! –, it is disciplined: Anyone who doesn't stick to it will be given a club trial afterwards – either in Vienna or Klagenfurt, you don't know that exactly at the FPÖ, where the club's in-house court location is. In any case, however, there will be proceedings. [[Abg. Scheibner: What a picture of Members!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – Yes, you can be courageous in the calls – be courageous in the vote! Be brave in the vote! Because it is justified that this request for distrust should be filed here. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's just what you say!]] As an example of the signing of the Eurofighter Treaty: The Minister of Finance was afraid because Jörg Haider said on Sunday evening that it was still necessary to think about it, give the green light, the Council of Ministers gave the green light, and the Minister of Defense is "hurtled" at the table to sign at the expense of taxpayers. If he had done this 48 hours later, it would have been cheaper for taxpayers – that is the true scandal that is going on here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Can I explain to the particularly business-competents in the ÖVP – perhaps there are also some in the FPÖ – why actually selling the VOEST, which has one of the best economic results, just now? [[Abg. Head: Who buys a loss business?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No one buys a farm in the red numbers!]] Why is that supposed to be, you can explain that to me? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Learn Economics, Deputies!]] What need exists? – I mean, I know the ÖIAG... [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Strike out at Samuelson I!]] Your nervousness proves: I'm at the point! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The OIAG Board, but also the VOEST: A trap of lobbyists! – Two have been sent in by Mr. Finanzminister – Mr. Scharinger is also inside, but two have sent in the Minister of Finance – and they can now look at business figures in peace, make calculations. Privatization concepts are even offered so that you can privatize VOEST in the interest of those who are already in it. You're okay with that? [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Learn business!]] You think that's decent? That's economics? This is the responsibility of a Minister of Finance towards the Republic, towards taxpayers and, above all, the owners? – A scandal is really what is going on here! It's supposed to be wasted again, wasted! A waster as a finance minister, that's the drama that's being played here. Mr Finanzminister, who is sitting here on the government bank – still, perhaps even after this vote; but I am still saying today – I say to you: If you have the courage to agree that there is a secret vote, and if you have the courage to release this vote if you really prove courage twice, then the individual Members can freely decide, the Members who are inside here and say – to us – that: Give us the protection of a secret vote! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with ÖVP and the liberals.]] We are no longer free in this vote, we must defend this Minister for Finance! Be courageous and do not keep the rod in all cases, although there is already nothing to defend, because this Minister of Finance is at the end. You see that for yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18157	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18176	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There is no good and there is no bad public property in real estate or in large companies, but there is only a good or a bad deal with property – whether public or private, real estate or businesses. The problem of VOEST are not their products, is not their earnings, is not their balance sheet. The VOEST problem is called Karl-Heinz Grasser and his friends. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: Social democracy!]] The problem of real estate is not their value, is not their situation, but also: Karl-Heinz Grasser and his friends. Again and again, wherever you look: his friends from the PR companies to the real estate buyers and sellers he has brought to the key positions. That's the first one. The second is that we have succeeded in slowly translating the term ‘New Economy’ into ‘friends economy’, which takes part in every area accessible to the Minister of Finance. And if you, my Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party say that all the accusations of the opposition were caused by the hair: Substantial You're here for the Minister of Justice? Substantial You're here to the prosecutor? What do you mean by the financial criminal authorities? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We don't put anything!]] That they'd built allegations? The Minister of Finance is sitting here not only as a Minister of Finance, but already as a suspect in the relevant criminal proceedings. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Incredible!]] The Austrian criminal justice and the financial criminal authorities of their own home are being determined against the Minister of Finance for the relevant suspects! And there you, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, the audacity, to say that the courts would have thought that the financial criminal authorities would have invented this freely? That's slander? Are you suing the Austrian judicial system? Do you know what you're saying? And do you know what deep distrust you express to the Austrian rule of law and not to the opposition? The offences that concern them, and they are suspicions and not judgments, are: Tax evasion, forbidden gift acceptance, abuse of office, prohibited effect on the award procedure and circumvention of the legal prohibition on employment. That's why it's determined! And now you say, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP and of the Freedom Party: We don't care, we don't take that seriously. We keep him the bar, no matter if the court goes against him, whether the financial criminal authorities may already be found, no matter how we keep Karl-Heinz Grasser at all costs! – And I underline five times: at all costs! To the price of your credibility, to the price of a functioning control of this National Council and to the price of respect for the Austrian rule of law, courts and financial criminal authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the price it's about for a long time. Of course, the Minister of Finance could make it much easier for us to answer simple questions: What's on the account of the friends of the New Economy? Who paid and why? And what funds, Mr. Finanzminister, have you personally collected from companies? [[Objection to ÖVP and the liberals.]] Whichever money you have personally collected, in whatever form, and for what You're using these funds? These are the questions you need to answer! Do not argue that associations and websites that bear the name Karl-Heinz Grasser do not belong to Karl-Heinz Grasser. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: Just leave it open!]] In this Republic, at this Ministry of Finance, under this Chancellor still applies: What Karl-Heinz Grasser insists on is also Karl-Heinz Grasser in it! That's where you can take any kind of government gift. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude: Today, I have noted that a Finance Minister has lost his nerves for the first time at a current meeting of the National Council, has insulted the opposition, and has forced the President to think very carefully about the business instruments to be used against these Finance Ministers. [[Ironic cheerfulness and contradiction with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] However, the question is not addressed to Karl-Heinz Grasser. We know the reasons why he does not resign and why he cannot resign. The question is addressed to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government parties: How far do you want to go to support Karl-Heinz Grasser? What further price do you want to pay to keep this Minister of Finance? And: Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, how far do you drive your self-poverty plans to continue to support this Karl-Heinz Grasser, who has done anything but good to you in the past? How much do you stick to this government chair so that you are not able to express the long-overdue distrust of Karl-Heinz Grasser?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18282	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke on an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18307	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pilz has made the enormous claim that the Minister of Finance is sitting there as a suspect, because the criminal justice against him is under investigation. - That's wrong! If the prosecutor finds out about someone, he's not a suspect yet. Take note of this! You could, in any case, make someone suspect with your method. That is what I am telling you as a longtime judge!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18339	No one is reporting on this. That is why I am closing the debate. We shall proceed to the votes. First of all, we vote – please, if possible, take the seats exceptionally! – on the draft law, title and entry into 78 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this draft law in 78 of the Supplements to a sign. . I note that the second-reading proposal was adopted by a majority vote. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading give a sign of this. – I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, colleagues and colleagues on the continuation of the successful privatisation measures by the Austrian Federal Government. I would ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request show a sign of this. I note that the motion for a resolution was adopted by a majority vote. (E 12.) We shall proceed next to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kogler, Dr. Cap, colleagues and colleagues on the refusal of confidence to the Federal Minister for Finance within the meaning of Article 74(2). 1 of the Federal Constitution. I note that such a decision requires the presence of at least half of the members of the National Council, and I note that this presence quo is fulfilled. In addition, I have a request signed by 20 Members on a business basis, within the meaning of § 66 para. 4 GoG to conduct a secret vote on the vote of distrust. This is only possible if, first, there is no desire for nominal voting – such a vote is not available – and secondly, the National Council decides by a majority. I shall therefore vote on the request for a secret vote to be taken on the vote on the vote on the vote on distrust. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a secret vote to give a sign on this. . I note that the request for a secret vote did not find a majority and was rejected. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Van der Bellen is not here! Van der Bellen is against it too!]] We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a censure even in the form of a normal vote by raising the seats. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have agreed to the request for a refusal of confidence to the Federal Minister for Finance, mentioned earlier, in order to give a sign on this point. – I note that the motion for a reluctance has not found a majority and has therefore been rejected. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Where's the applause?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: But the applause was too bad!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Vergestnich and Mr Colleagues on safeguarding Austria's industrial location by remaining ÖIAG as a core shareholder. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – The application is largely rejected. That is what we have done with this item on the agenda. Before I ask Mr Prinzhorn to take the presidency, I would like to make the following clear so that we do not argue: There is the famous provision that political groups representing a different position receive a correspondingly extended speaking time when a member of the government speaks for more than 20 minutes in a debate subject to a deadline. The divergent positions on this issue are represented by Social Democrats and Greens. The two other political groups have informed me that they do not make use of this possibility, so they will not be presented with any different views. However, our computer is programmed in such a way that only one political group has to be counted as a member of the government, not the others. Therefore, these additional speaking times of 6 minutes will appear in the computers of the Greens and the Social Democrats, where ÖVP will not appear in the computer and will appear in the computer for the liberals, but will not be used. So if the liberals still have 6 minutes of speaking time left, they actually have no more speaking time. I would ask you to take note of this, otherwise there will be disagreements between the folders. 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (79 of the Supplements): Federal Law on Austrian Contributions to International Financial Institutions (IFI Contribution Act 2003) (137 of Supplements) 9. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (88 of the Supplements): Convention on the establishment of the Joint Vienna Institute (138 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18472	We now proceed to points 8 and 9 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Gartlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18498	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! – Mrs. State Secretary is not here. I would have thought that this coalition government would be even more courageous and at least give a secret vote in this House. This would have been really easy if there was nothing to hide here. But I think you really don't trust yourselves to bring these things to the stage without Blamage and without further blue eyes for the Minister of Finance. Now it's about "Peanuts": It's about the third world. A decision is to be taken here on the issue of financing for international financial institutions. I mean, we can call that a positive action. As social democrats, we agree that funds will be made available for various replenishments to individual institutions such as IDA, ADF and GEF, as well as for the Agricultural Development Fund, because we believe that this will help to achieve meaningful development policy. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have already informed the Secretary of State in the Financial Committee and asked him to work for the Austrian line, namely that the ILO – the International Labour Organization – will be involved in this network. This is important, therefore, because the ILO has a great interest in preventing child labour and trafficking in human beings with children for child labour and prostitution, and precisely the countries and countries where child labour and trafficking in children is more or less common or very common are also affected by the promotions. It is therefore in our interest to promote these countries only if we can be sure that child labour is stopped there. In this sense, I am looking for consideration. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18535	The next speaker was Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18553	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With the adoption of this law and the associated 13. Refill of the resources of the International Development Organisation for the years 2003 to 2009 makes Austria a very important contribution to the generally recognised main objective of combating poverty. This objective includes social as well as environmental and economic assistance in developing countries in very close cooperation with the United Nations. Humanitarian development projects, the financing of the fight against environmental damage and environmental problems and agricultural research and development contracts are being promoted. Participation in this development fund has a very positive impact on Austria's economic location and, of course, also on our country's employment status. The funds used therefore also have an investment character and justify the re-route profitability, the Austrian companies, which Objectively implement development projects abroad, in the form of orders to be carried out domestically. The commitment under this Development Fund offers market entry opportunities for Austrian businesses in the field of construction and water management, as well as in the telecommunications and technology sectors. The Austrian economy is very successful in these international calls for proposals in Central Europe, Central Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America. A prerequisite for membership of the organisations relevant to the Austrian economy is therefore the contribution to the individual funds. Development cooperation instruments are used to improve and strengthen bilateral relations with the target countries. They are therefore a very important contribution to the solidarity of the international community. Since 1994, the Joint Vienna Institute with its headquarters in Vienna has also fulfilled an important mission in the field of modern administration and services in Central Europe, Eastern Europe and Asia, the Baltic States and the CIS. The purpose of this recognised and successful institution is the training of public servants for the transition of these States to fully market-oriented, developed economies. On this occasion, I should also like to thank the staff on behalf of our group.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18598	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18617	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There is also agreement among the Greens on the amount of funding from international financial organizations and on the creation of a permanent basis for the Joint Vienna Institute, but not entirely for the same reasons that the colleague Bucher mentioned first: For us, this is about improving international commitments from Austria, the economic situation, but above all the social and humanitarian situation in the developing countries. These international commitments exist for us at multilateral level, but we should also meet the international commitments at bilateral and in the field of other development cooperation. I am talking about the 0.7 percent that have been decided by the UN 30 years ago and that Austria still does not reach, but good: The IFIs – the international financial institutions – also play an important role, especially the IDA, the Global Environment Facility. However, the question we are asking is: What are the political guidelines for the Austrian representatives of these institutions? – As far as we are aware, there is not much cohesion between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance and those persons, in terms of how Austria behaves in these institutions. Especially in the run-up to the recovery of the IDA funds, for example, it was about the fact that the United States wanted to give much more gifts – that is, “grants” – to the 50 percent! The EU has rightly opposed this and argues that the IDA is very important for loans. If one replaces all the financial means and only more the gift character in the front This is the reason why this fund is undermined, and especially the poorest countries no longer have access to it. I asked myself whether Austria simply relied on the fact that in the EU it is still the right thing to do in the same way as we do. As far as I'm aware, there's not really been any regulations. Similar to the Global Environment Facility: They have been available since 1990, and the UN Development Programme UNDP and the World Bank support and implement their projects together. It has been hoped that this will strengthen the environmental sustainability concept in the World Bank. That happened a little bit, but not enough. There is also my question to the Minister for Finance: Did you really see to it that the Austrian representatives are driving this forward? It seems to me that there is a lot of money to spend on it – there are international obligations, so that is all right – and simply rely on what these institutions are doing, while, for example, in the bilateral area, where very small organisations – non-governmental organisations – are often concerned, looking at every cent and controlling everything that they do. I therefore feel quite a misunderstanding between this great trust given to the large institutions and the lack of great confidence left for the smaller institutions and institutions. As I said, The Greens will agree. The only thing we expect and will also call for – I have already discussed this with the chairman of the Development Policy Subcommittee – is that, as was usual in the past, we are bringing the subject of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to the fore again in the Subcommittee. If it hasn't been successful this spring, maybe we'll do it in the autumn. We will also invite Austrian representatives to the institutions concerned. If the Federal Government does not manage to establish the necessary coherence between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance according to development policy criteria or even between the Ministry of Finance and the persons it has sent to the respective institutions, it is hoped that Parliament will manage this discussion. We must also take steps to clarify or at least discuss the coherence between what is contained in our Development Cooperation Act and what is represented in the international institutions of Austria. Let me just say something to the Joint Vienna Institute: We too agree that it will now be put on a permanent basis. – There has been since 1994. On and on, such think tanks are very necessary and useful. Of course, in this JVI – the Joint Vienna Institute – the most powerful financial institutions are already creating their own think tank to defend their liberalisation credit not only through the credit conditions, but also through training programmes for the administrative elites. I wonder whether the self-criticism and admission of having made mistakes, for example, which even IMF director Köhler recently said to Argentina, may also be carried out in the courses of this Joint Vienna Institute. One should already be aware that many mistakes have been made in the past. It is now possible to discuss in Parliament more closely how these courses are going. In fact. But this is a sensible establishment, and we will agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18692	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law on IFI contribution law 2003 and the title and receipt in 79 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is also unanimous. The law is therefore adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty, the Convention on the establishment of the Joint Venture Institute, to be approved in 88 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. 10. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (97 of the Supplements): Federal Act establishing a Federal Law on Property Fund (Immobilien-Investmentfondsgesetz – ImmoInvFG) which amends the Banking Act, the Investment Fund Act 1993, the Capital Market Act, the Securities Supervision Act, the Company Supervisory Act, the Pensions Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Income Tax Act 1988 and the Corporate Tax Act 1988 (139 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18753	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. The first speaker to speak was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. The speaking time is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18775	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that we are now discussing a bill on which there has been years of negotiations, a draft law that recently demonstrates that this government coalition, this government constitution, can also tackle things that were left behind, and demonstrate reform. However, I also expressly thank both opposition parties for being able to take a unanimous decision on the basis of a very constructive discussion within the Financial Committee. I expect this unanimity here in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I am pleased because it is in fact here. This is a draft law which, I believe, is an important extension for our capital market. What were the motives? – They were pretty clear: We note an increasing demand for real estate, which is considered to be a long-term, secure investment and which will also play an important role in the field of pension provision. On this point I should like to say the following: Even though the three-pillar model of pension provision has often been attacked in recent weeks and months by the opposition – this question, ladies and gentlemen, we will not decide, but the people concerned themselves. The market will decide, and we note that more and more young people on the market are willing to provide for their own pension accordingly. It is therefore an important law that we are adopting here today. The second reason was that in recent years we have seen that foreign real estate investment funds are pushing into Austria more and more, and that is why we have thought it would be politically wise to create a real estate investment fund law. The first goal was to ensure the greatest possible security for investors. Therefore, the whole is considered to be a banking business. It is subject to financial market supervision. Each year, two independent auditors have the value. Thus, the law provides for all the collateral that provides investor protection. Secondly, if we do, we also wanted to have a competitive product. We have therefore endeavoured, in particular, to shape the tax provisions in such a way that we can say according to the best of our knowledge and conscience, we assume that there is competitiveness. But I like to admit that this was not easy, but actually the square of the circle: On the one hand, we wanted to have equal treatment with securities, is equal to 25 percent final taxation. On the other hand, we wanted to prevent direct investment and real estate funds from being treated differently. The square has shown that we have said: Final taxation, yes, but based on an extended basis, which already has cash flow-like character in winning analysis. Total, my Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that by this law we are taking a good step into the future of an even more powerful investment market, so that we can set the course for something that corresponds to a need for wide-ranging population: long-term, secure presupposition, especially in the field of pension provision. I would like to thank the two opposition parties once again for their constructive discussion in the Financial Committee and for their unanimity.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18836	Mr Marizzi is speaking as the next speaker. The watch is set to 3 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18854	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, real estate is usually a secure investment form. I would like to say that we have a consensus matter, but you can all remember that in Scandinavia in 1991/1993 we had problems that shook the real estate market, there were banking problems in Bavaria, the tailor- Crisis is known to all of us, and the Japanese real estate crisis has not been without either. That is, this law, which we decide today, is a good law that should generate confidence among investors. We've always wanted the prospectus duty, just like the shares. Perhaps, my colleague, the law would have been stupid after the 11th century, because you spoke of the willingness to reform this federal government. It is intended to be decided on September because, of course, some turbulence arose in the stock markets at the time. That means that many would have gone into real estate. That's also mentioned. I think it's important that it brings a quality advantage to investors. We believe that the note in the basic book is important. It is also right that a scattering rate is provided for that at least ten products are included. This obviously minimizes the risks to investors. It is also an important point, to go into detail, that the liability of the fund companies and the deposit bank exists for the creditors, that there should also be restrictions on charges outside the EU in order to avoid money flight and tax flight. I hope that the draft law will change the Austrian real estate landscape positively and, of course, also represents a corresponding impulse for Austria's economic location. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said, but I would like to repeat this: The aim of the bill is to prevent the outflow of assets, especially in German real estate funds, to improve investor protection and to strengthen investor confidence in Austrian financial markets. That is why we are happy to agree to this draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18897	The next speaker was Mr Bucher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18915	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The real estate investment fund law is, as it were, another milestone of this ÖVP/FPÖ reform government. A year-long tuition was finally brought to an end, fortunately also quite in agreement with the opposition parties. This is certainly gratifying because, I believe, all the forces were able to see that this is a very important reform that needs to be made in order to provide the real estate stock in Austria with new impulses in the longer term. The only way to install real estate securities in Austria today is to offer real estate stock companies. However, these are not subject to the strict rules and guidelines imposed, for example, on real estate funds in Germany. Therefore, there were many disappointed investors in the 1990s who were damaged by lack of supervision of the investment product's financing plant. There is still an unbroken trend towards investment funds and life insurance, which should of course be used. As my previous speakers have already said, in this context, it is about stopping the flow of capital abroad and taking appropriate measures in Austria to ensure that the capital for real estate is used here. There is already an initiative from the year 2000, a request from Mr Firlinger and Mr stupid, which have taken up this law, but which has failed in the end. Today, however, a very important conclusion has been drawn, and we will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18951	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18970	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! In fact, it's a lot of consensus, anyway, so much that we've somehow found ourselves. I don't need to repeat what was said. In spite of the consensus, however, I would like to point out, Mr President, that our motive for agreeing to this matter has already been the primary intention – and I hope that it is primarily your intention to do so – that we will be able to understand domestic real estate accordingly, that we have not only bundled foreign property, with all the complicated tax-laws that will partly pursue us, because new problems will be raised. I don't want to light anyone with that, because that's really complicated in detail. I also had to let myself be taught laboriously. It seems to me so far sensible and fine, however, if one of the main motives from your point of view, Mr. Stummful, is that we find special investment opportunities here for the third pillar in pension provision – from your point of view – that may also be possible, but that is not our first intention. I am concerned, as I have said, with the various possibilities of the alliances of domestic and foreign real estates. But if you point out that, anyway, more and more – the market is already heading – would go into the third pillar, then we may not have to continue the discussion at another place, but at another point in content, precisely what is to be promoted by the state. We have a different opinion, because that someone can not only provide privately, but may also be, is not the point. The question is how much the state should pay for it. If there are more possibilities in this sense, it should also be right, we will have to talk elsewhere about where the state governance is focusing. We have different opinions, but that is not the first question in this law. I wanted to know that.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19003	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19021	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! It has already been said a lot about the real estate investment fund law. I believe that we now jointly decide on this law has an enormous importance, because it also sends a trust signal to the investor. It is an important opportunity that we now use the law to open up to the small investor: the opportunity to make a profit. to be able to invest strong, secure and long-term properties for the first time on the basis of an Austrian law. It was therefore also very important that the investor protection rules in this law have been strongly developed. It is not only that the law as such follows the proven principles of the already existing and highly attractive investment funds in the investor, but that the entire business performance is controlled by a mandatory deposit bank and is therefore subject to financial market supervision. The valuation of the fund shares is clearly regulated by the law and is carried out by the deposit bank according to the accounting principle, and the properties in the funds are once a year by two – I emphasize: evaluated by two independent experts, and – and this was a difficult discussion with the banks – the liability of the deposit bank for the misbehavior of the expert is very, very extensive, probably already somewhat excessive. In any case, this should create sufficient confidence. Let me conclude by stressing one aspect: These guaranteed framework conditions, which we are now creating, should also give rise to additional essential impulses for investment in the real estate market, because we know that if the state withdraws from investment and promotions, it is necessary and proper to open up new opportunities through the private capital collection. If you use the German example – there is already a rich experience – then you can expect about € 5 to 7 billion from this design of the real estate investment fund law for the future. This is something that the Austrian market location, the jobs in Austria, will do very well. We will see, after a phase of market experience, how far this product is fully competitive, especially in relation to German products. There are a few aspects in the tax dimension that may be discussed in the near future for the purpose of optimizing the law once again in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19061	Mr Neudeck came to speak as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19079	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On the content of this law, my previous speakers, particularly Mr Ikrath, have actually taken out the highlights. So I do not want to say much more about this due to the advanced hour. It is true that this draft law has actually been located in the desk of the Ministry of Finance for many years. Mr Edlinger did not leave this out and apparently took it with him when he gave his office. It was particularly Mr Firlinger, who is no longer in the house, and Mr President, who has done this very well. Mr Firlinger, who has also been very lobbying, is no longer here today. I would therefore like to thank him very much for his work in this matter on this path. It has already been mentioned that this law takes into account the rapid advance of foreign real estate funds in the Austrian market and also the demand of Austrian investors. I believe that with this law and with the already mentioned annual audit by two experts the real estate the area is taken from the speculative touch and shown by the fact that the investment in real estate is also made possible for small savers in small amounts. I would like to thank both SPÖ and the Greens for giving their consent to this law and thus showing investors that this is really a priority for consumer protection and investor safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19118	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19137	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! After the heated debate on the federal real estates, a somewhat conciliatory conclusion with regard to this four-party consensus. It has been negotiated for a long time – that has already been said – but Austria's capital market also has a product range more. A desired segment is available to the banks. The decisive thing is that even small investors get the chance to invest in safe real estate. In the investor market, of course, the demand for products is growing, especially for real estate, because they are considered safe above all. For many, the high price is sometimes very dissuasive, but this segment gives the possibility that even with small savings you will get quite a corresponding return. It has already been said that the real estate investment fund law to be decided is, of course, also there to create greater legal certainty. The secure exposure shall be ensured by an annual real estate assessment by independent experts. The financial market supervision of course also has its hand on it. According to experts, ladies and gentlemen, a lack of providers is not in sight. In addition to the banks, of course, many others are also pushing on this market. According to experts, the new real estate funds could reach €500 million annually. Depending on the level of inflation, you can expect a return of up to 7 percent. Not only private and small investors will get in – perhaps also for the purposes of old-age care, as just discussed – but the interest of pension funds may also be considerable, because they also want to ensure the so-called “reparation” decided last year accordingly. It is, I think, high time that we decide on this law, because there really is also the risk of moving into funds from other countries. We should stop that. Ladies and gentlemen! These real estate funds are in progress, and this is good, both in the interest of the investment power of our economy and, of course, in the final consequence, in the interest of jobs in our beautiful country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19180	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. – I ask you to take the seats! The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 139 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. [[Calls at the ÖVP towards SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. You need a majority! We don't need her!]] – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who also give their approval to the law at third reading, for a sign in this regard. – The law was adopted unanimously at third reading. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (34 of the Supplements): Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of the Philippines on the promotion and mutual protection of investment (140 of the supplements) 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (36 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Malta on the promotion and mutual protection of investment (141 of the supplements) 13. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (37 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Great Socialist Libyan-Arab People's-Jamahiriya on the promotion and protection of investment (142 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19233	We now come to points 11 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] No one has spoken, although the debate is open. I shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote separately from each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of the Philippines on the promotion and mutual protection of investments to be approved in 34 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Malta on the promotion and mutual protection of investments to be approved in 36 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Great Socialist Libyan-Arab People's-Jamahiriya on the För- In the case of investment and the protection of investment, the approval shall be granted in 37 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously adopted. 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (45 of the Supplements): Agreement between Austria and Belize on income and wealth taxes (143 of the supplements) 15. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (82 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Morocco on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income taxes (144 of the supplements) 16. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (87 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Armenia on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income taxes and assets and Protocol (145 of Supplements) 17. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (89 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the State of Kuwait on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth and on the recovery of economic relations with Protocol (146 of the Supplements) 18. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (92 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income taxes and assets (147 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19349	This is where we come to points 14 to 18 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. The rapporteur did not mention a word. The only word I have to speak is from Mrs Hagenhofer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19373	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today, we are adopting a series of agreements on the protection of investment, but also on the prevention of double taxation. If the export rate or the foreign trade of Austria continues to grow It is necessary to provide exporters with certain safeguards in these areas. We will agree to this agreement because it is simply necessary and it is also natural for social democracy. However, we are criticizing you, and I would ask you, Mr State Secretary, to be able to do so in the future: These agreements for the protection of investment or for the prevention of double taxation are good for exporters, but we do not believe that there is any protection of labour standards. I would ask that ILO's international labour standards be incorporated into future model protection agreements. We believe that not only investment and taxation can be protected, but we also believe it is necessary that, if we assume that the most important growth engine for Austria's exporters is Eastern Europe, international minimum labour standards are also included in these agreements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr State Secretary, I would like to ask you, or I would send a request from the Bureau of the House of Deputies in Bosnia-Herzegovina and also from the Bureau of the People's House, where, on the occasion of the visit of a delegation to Sarajevo, we were asked to ratify the double taxation agreement with Bosnia-Herzegovina from Austria. I would ask you to press the Ministry of Finance to ratify this agreement so that Bosnia-Herzegovina and other Eastern European countries can also be treated in the field of the prevention of double taxation and the protection of investments – perhaps you can already include the new model protection agreement – and this agreement can be signed within the meaning of international labour standards of the ILO. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19419	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with Belize in the fields of income and wealth taxes to be approved in 45 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with the Kingdom of Morocco to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in the areas of income taxes, to be approved in 82 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with the Government of the Republic of Armenia to avoid double taxation in the areas of income tax and wealth and Protocol to grant approval in 87 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with the Government of the State of Kuwait to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth and to encourage economic relations with the Protocol to be approved in 89 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with the Government of the Islamic Republic Iran to avoid double taxation in the areas of income tax and wealth to grant approval in 92 of the supplements. I ask the ladies and gentlemen for a sign on this point. – This is unanimously adopted. 19. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (95 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on mutual assistance and cooperation in customs matters (148 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19501	We're entering the 19th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. No one has said anything about it. We are therefore voting on the request of the Financial Committee to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 95 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. 20. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (121 of the Supplements): The Federal Law, which amends the Water Law 1959 and the Water Construction Promotion Act 1985 and repeals the Hydrography Act, and Motion for a resolution 160/A (E) by Mrs Eva Glawischnig, Members of the European Parliament, on the protection of the environment and the environment Motion for a resolution 161/A (E) by Mrs Eva Glawischnig, Members of Parliament, on the protection of Austrian water resources and on the Amendment 40/A by Dr Eva Glawischnig, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2002, the Water Law 1959 and the Federal Air Re Content Act 2002 (Law on the Neighbourhood and Environmental Protection of Agricultural Plants 2003) and on the Motion for a resolution 137/A (E) by Mrs Mag. Ulrike Sima, colleagues on measures that are urgently needed to improve the nitrate pollution of groundwater in Austria (166 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19589	We reach the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak was Mrs Mag. Sima. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19614	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In fact, the implementation of the Water Framework Directive into the Water Law Act is one of the largest and most comprehensive innovations in this field in recent years, and in principle the deterioration of the water status is a positive initiative for the environment. Unfortunately, Mr. Federal Minister – and we have discussed it in a very detailed manner in the Committee – but from our point of view, the implementation of the Austrian Water Law Act shows some shortcomings, which is why we will not give the novelle our consent. I am personally very sorry because the water law law is a potential consensual matter, only the way in which the whole thing was done here is not acceptable to us. Above all, the final stage of the consultation of this new law was too short. All of this just went over the stage very quickly. I would just like to remind you: ==References== It was not until June that the government proposal was decided in the Council of Ministers, and there were still some amendments to the draft assessment. There have been 65 very comprehensive opinions in the review process alone. I do not quite understand the hurry either because we really had until December time to implement the Water Framework Directive. There is no real need to push this through before the summer. I also wish that the opposition would have been negotiated on this issue, because I believe that it is a potential matter of consensus, where there are certain same objectives. Now take a short look at the critical points in detail. A critical point that hurts us particularly is § 12a. This is the definition of the state of the art. So far, in all systems, the state of the art must be the highest level of technology, without restrictions. New introduction has now been made with this novel that costs and benefits should also play a major role in the future, and that is a very clear irrigation from our point of view. This is all the more bitter and even more worrying than the introduction of a deterioration in the implementation of a directive which is actually aimed at avoiding deterioration. In my opinion, this contradicts the intentions of the Water Framework Directive, and I very much regret that you have introduced this here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Another point that hurts us very much is that § 33 has been removed without replacement. There is no longer any report on water protection, which has so far had to be sent to the house every three years. It is clear to me that there is this six-year EU report, but the problem is that a whole legislative period can pass, perhaps even two, depending on how long such a period takes without there being a report in this House. This is all the more incomprehensible to me than this water protection report was indeed an important basis for further measures in the water sector. He provided information about groundwater nitrate loads, about the water quality et cetera. I really think this is a mistake, and I don't understand why you just want to get rid of annoying reports like that. Obviously this was the case with the Water Protection Report, and that is also one of the reasons why we cannot agree. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer talks to Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing, who is sitting on the government bank. Pröll.]] Excuse me, but maybe you could continue your little chat a little later. In theory, the debate should be held here with the Minister, Mr Molterer. [[Abg. Grillitsch: (on empty bank series in SPÖ pointing) Look at your own rows!]] Mr Grillitsch, this is not about the presence, but it is about that I would have liked to discuss it with the Minister. I think that is also the meaning of this debate, because otherwise we can save our speech here and put a note on each other. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: Is this so uninteresting to your colleagues? Is water law so uninteresting?]] I am now returning to the content debate; perhaps you could do so. You will certainly come back to it again today, and then you can express your need for speech from the speaker's desk. Especially difficult – and this is also one of our criticisms – are the many Swammy formulations in this novel, which are partly based on the fact that it is a verbatim translation from English, which in German is sometimes very inaccurate and gay. An example is § 104a, the approval of new installations, where it is said that all practical measures must be taken to reduce negative effects. – Here there is a very, very wide scope for interpretation. Or disproportionate costs. Here you really have a wide margin and can actually approve almost everything right to water. This is just a little too far-reaching for us, and we are very concerned that there is a deterioration in this very sensitive and very important water protection area. I would say that § 104 has become something like a rubber paragraph. Of course, it always depends on interpretation, but we have great fears that this will develop in a negative direction. I do not understand why all these amendments are contained because they are diametrically opposed to the intentions of the Water Framework Directive. I think it is a pity because this is a new law on water law, Mr Federal Minister, and we will not agree to it for the reasons I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19696	As the next speaker, the honourable Member's head is mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19716	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Right at the beginning, Mrs Sima: It is a shame that you, although you have announced in the Committee that you will consider not wanting or being able or able to believe this draft. I think that with this implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive, we are actually setting a milestone in this legislation on water law and making a paradigm change in terms of water protection policy. So far, this has always been very much influenced by the protection of the water from immissions of various pollutants. The directive is already moving very strongly towards long-term planning, coordination of environmental, economic, social aspects in an integrated planning process, i.e. in the direction of water management of a very long planning horizon and involving all concerned. I think this path is demanding, but it is not completely riskless either; that is no question at all. But I think that it is the absolutely right way to really achieve improvements at reasonable and reasonable costs in the water and in the protection of water. We have already achieved a lot; you should not put that under the carpet. We've achieved a lot. But if you want to achieve improvements at reasonable costs, I think that this type of access, as it is chosen here, is exactly the right one. And to the criticism you have made, Mrs Sima: The whole process of the creation of the directive and its implementation is already taking place for two years. And on the subject of haste: We have to hurry. We have to implement the directive by December, but not only in the form of a law, but also in the following terms with a variety of regulations, and this simply did not go out in time if we did not decide this law before the summer break. I cannot quite believe that the withdrawal of the Water Protection Report or the adaptation of the term “stand of technology” to the Commercial Code and the Waste Management Act should be the same use of this term as the reason for rejection. I am very surprised by your disapproval, because I believe that the implementation of the directive has actually succeeded in protecting Austrian waters and waters.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19756	The next speaker to speak was Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19775	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I can only take this rating and return it. I would like to stress that some improvements have been made in the course of the review process concerning the critical points that have been put forward, but, unfortunately, the adverse interpretations of this directive still go beyond the scope. It is true that the Water Framework Directive is a very, very large project. It is based on planning, it goes over a very long period of time, and it is not only the maintenance of a state the goal, but it is planning the talk, citizens' participation – that is, a comprehensive tool for improving the water status in a very comprehensive perspective. What is very bad is that, unfortunately, there have been great objections, especially an objection which, since last year, since the flood in August of last year, must actually have a greater importance in Austria, namely the question of regeneration, the questions: How do we deal with the rivers? What place do we give them? What floods do we expect in the future? What planning instruments can we improve to give more space to the rivers? An example: It is very sad how little courage has been shown in the revision of the water law law. Originally, the Minister of the Environment himself has said that in the future one may replace the high-water drainage area 30, that terrible word “HQ 30”, with “HQ 100” and count on hundreds of years of floods, work with retention areas and start planning. Some federal states have found this to be very good, for example the country of Salzburg, where it is incomprehensible that the replacement-free destruction has then taken place again, in the areas of retention and so on, from a hundred years of flood. And what was the trigger for that? – That some federal states have notified the consultation mechanism. I'm very sorry. On other political issues, one has much more courage and much more vehemence to overdo opinions. We could have had a little more consequence in this very sensible project. We have also tried to assume from another flood assessment, from another access to the river and its rooms. Unfortunately, our amendment has been rejected in this form. I would like to mention a few other points that are a pity. Unfortunately, there is no guarantee that, especially as regards the discharge of wastewater, the current state will be guaranteed. We will continue to have a very important instrument between the federal government and countries, with implementation deficits, implementation problems that we have had for a very long time in the field of groundwater protection. And we are also very little transferred from the very offensively positive elements to the new water law. As far as groundwater renovation is concerned, we know that the current instrumentarium is inaccurate and cumbersome. It often takes between ten and 14 years for groundwater to be restored. And I see no significant improvements and accelerations. As far as the whole problem of regeneration and floods is concerned, there are two points that would have been very easy to regulate, especially in the case of regulatory buildings, to loosen the current very strict course provided by the law. You have to imagine this: If you have a regulatory structure and there is a flood, you often come to the end, the river simply needs more space, and therefore it would make little sense to build up this regulatory structure to 100 percent over and over again. However, according to current legal situation, this is not possible. On the contrary: All property owners around it have a mandatory legal claim to fully re-establish this regulation. This is diametrically due to the consequence that we should draw from the flood disaster, where the rivers take the space to give them back. This would have been very easy: with § 50 and a relaxation of this maintenance bid of regulations. There are other things that we are not satisfied with, but I am saving myself because I now have little time to speak. § 104a has already been mentioned. This is this approval section, after which you can continue to approve in the final effect of any power plant – no matter what was planned before. That one does not take a narrower radius here, that one does not say here, no further stagnation levels in “Natura 2000” areas, no further stagnation levels in national parks, or even for the conservation of natural river routes, all of this is very negative in the balance sheet and ultimately forces us not to agree to this presentation. In the course of the entire package around the Water Law Act, some applications have also been made. In connection with one of these proposals, namely the EIA Act and a novel, I would like to make one more amendment because it is urgent and because it concerns a problem which can also be dealt with today in the course of this discussion, namely an environmental impact assessment in the cross-border context of the problem of extending the Excalibur shopping centre at Kleinhaugsdorf. Here an additional shopping center with an opening time of 8 am to 10 pm is to be created on 365 days of the year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] I would just like to tell you that the EIA proposals will also be dealt with, and in this context I would like to make an amendment to a cross-border EIA. [[Ironic hustle and bustling gestures of Abg. Head.]] – No, that’s absolutely correct! You can complain about business regulations. Voices You'd rather make this request! I think that's in your interest too! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is about the violation of the Espoo Convention. A cross-border environmental impact assessment is necessary and also mandatory, and there is no starting point for the Czech Republic to do so, and there is no starting point for Austria to call for it. That is why our request is addressed. It is very comprehensive, so I only present it in the cornerstones. The Federal Government is just asking for this cross-border EIA to be applied for this Kleinhaugsdorf project and also to carry out as provided for in this international treaty. I think that is in the interests of the government parties, particularly the Lower Austrian Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19875	Ladies and gentlemen, even if you insist: I do not know an amendment of this kind! I have a request with this text, but I would like to say ‘Development proposal’. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: I correct: motion for a resolution! Thank you, Mr President.]] If this is the motion for a resolution you have read, it will be sufficiently supported and will be negotiated. He was explained in his key points, distributed in writing and printed in the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19937	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19955	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Water and water resources are a very sensitive issue, and objectives for the conservation and improvement of water quality should be taken into account across all party borders and free from party policy considerations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am therefore very sorry that it has already been said in the run-up to Social Democrats and Greens that they will not agree to this bill. The EU Water Framework Directives set clear environmental objectives that will protect all waters from deterioration. The implementation of these directives in the new Novelle Water Law Act provides a very good basis for water conservation, with the achievement of the objectives of course very high demands on the government. The protection of the future resource of water really needs to be taken seriously in the future. This has been taken particularly seriously and will be done in Upper Austria, where the water industry has been very progressive and successful for several years in the free management of the water resort. As a result of the designation of groundwater rehabilitation areas, an improvement in groundwater quality deficits could be achieved. The “Future Drinking Water” project leads to ensuring that the supply of drinking water will continue to be ensured in Upper Austria by involving the population and all stakeholders. A comprehensive flood protection plan has been drawn up for any future floodwaters, taking into account, on the one hand, ecologically sound protection measures, but also technical structures to protect the settlement area. Ladies and gentlemen! The Water Framework Directive is a planning directive and instead of rigid requirements, it provides for gradual approximation processes to achieve the objectives. The implementation of the Water Law Act will therefore also lead to a rethinking in the future. It must be expected that difficult-to-correct misdevelopments can be started at the disadvantage of ecology. This must be countered so that the great opportunities can be used with creative measures and that they bring ecologically and economically balanced approaches. I would like to put in place a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kopf, Mr Wittauer, and others on the protection of Austrian water resources through efficient planning, which I would like to explain in his key points. It also includes demands of the opposition, which have been crystallized in the Committee's debate, as well as a demand that is very important to us liberals when it comes to the equivalent of groundwater to drinking water, so that groundwater can be used as drinking water again. Another concern, which is particularly important for Upper Austria, is the definition of planning areas, as local good measures should not be affected by the combination of planning spaces. Thus, this motion for a resolution also provides for a review of the “Donau Central” planning area, with the aim of re-evaluating the administrative and coordination burden in the future, together with the countries concerned. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This motion for a resolution calls on the Federal Minister to put in place appropriate measures and mechanisms, in the sense of a target control, so that a truly balanced state can be achieved and ensured. Special attention should also be paid by the Federal Minister to the necessary adaptation of existing installations, in particular those of the e-Economies – this all the more so than increases in the use of renewable energy for the Kyoto objectives are of particular interest. Ladies and gentlemen! We all bear responsibility when it comes to securing the water treasure for future generations and leaving it in a really good condition. I call on you, especially colleagues from the opposition, to share responsibility for taking responsibility for our water resources together with us, and therefore also to call on you to vote in favour of this government proposal and for this resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20058	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Achleitner in his key points is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. According to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure Act will also be distributed to Members and printed to the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20120	Mr Heinzl is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20138	Mr President. Minister! Clean air and healthy, pure drinking water – I believe we are all the most important prerequisites for a healthy and good life. The European Union Water Framework Directive is therefore a very important measure to protect water. Only: When implementing this Directive into national law, the interests of lobbyists are repeatedly demonstrated. In fact, they have maintained that groundwater protection is no longer the goal of very good surface drinking water quality. The removal of the Water Economic Fund in the last two and a half years will also make it possible for the communities to be boiled softly. – Although there is an extremely high investment requirement in the water industry, the funding has been significantly reduced. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If cities and communities no longer make the necessary investment possible for this reason, then, as a way out of the locally organized water supply and disposal plants, they will also be sold to major investors – as is already the case with the state-owned industry. Since, I believe, a law on water law, in which the ban on the deterioration of the Water Framework Directive was only very inadequately implemented, is a non-essential sales argument. The direction of this train is clear: The water industry will be privatized in the future. In this context, I am thinking only of the sale of the NÖSIWAG to the 49 percent privatized EVN in Lower Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the current government will continue to impose tax policies. The tax burden as such will be maintained, but the share of the tax resources which will benefit the human being by detour will be reduced. Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment of the Water Law Act no longer guarantees the high level of water conservation in Austria; in addition, insufficient groundwater restoration is continued. That is why we Socialists reject this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20180	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. The watch is set to 4 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20220	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is admired by many guests who come to us because of the excellent water quality of the flowing and standing waters. The revision of the Water Law Act implements the European Union Water Framework Directive. In the implementation of this Framework Directive and its evaluation, particular attention must be paid to the simplification of management and to the rules which are, in practice, restrictive. The long-term objective of this Directive to achieve a good state of all groundwater and surface waters in the Member States has been largely achieved in Austria. The current legal framework has made a significant contribution to ensuring the quality of Austrian water. As a long-standing local politician, however, it is a particular concern for me to make changes in the field of support, in close cooperation with the countries, which entail a discharge of rural communities. The implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive aims to achieve a gradual reduction in the introduction of hazardous substances into waters of all EU countries, the promotion of sustainable water use and, above all, the resolution of cross-border water problems. Waters will be considered holisticly across any national and administrative border in the future. The aim is to protect the waters from the source to the mouth. This amendment of the Water Law Act sets out important objectives; Time-limits will be provided for a deterioration ban; a single water economic data pool will be established. These measures prove that the sustainable protection of the waters for this Federal Government – as it has been – is still not just a keyword. Our applicable water law is one of the most stringent in the European Union, and therefore no further strengthening is necessary. However, a regular evaluation is very important. Austria's water resources are excellent, with economic use in particular becoming increasingly important. This is why, in the “Year of Water, ” action is now being launched and a comprehensive discussion is being held on the quality, use and use of our water. Federal Chancellor Schüssel and Federal Minister Pröll have addressed essential points with the red and white-red water charter. They have created a target catalogue that represents a commitment to safeguard the habitat of water – and to which I fully join in content. Austria has water resources in a lot and kindness to envy us from other countries. The OECD is giving us a very good witness in the country's environmental monitoring report. I quote from it: Austria can be particularly proud of the quality of its raw water for drinking water supply and the quality of drinking water itself. - Quote. Together with the Federal Government, we also want to support our eastern and northern neighbours in order to improve their resources. With the excellent know-how of our economy in these areas, we are willing to help our neighbouring countries better meet the requirements of the EU Water Directive. That is why we are happy to agree to this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20268	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20287	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! Mr Wittauer, we would like to support this law, we have already discussed it quite in detail in committee, and we have noted some positive things in a positive way. It has also included suggestions from the Greens, such as an inventory of the state of the water, which is also provided for in the Water Framework Directive. Further: The extent of the loads, maintenance and improvement of the state, but, as Mr Glavischnig has already mentioned, there is nothing about the ecological flood protection contained in it! HQ 100 is not respected, but it goes back to HQ 30, although the Salzburgers would have been very much for it. The special protection of Austrian water resources, which you, Mrs Achleitner, also mentioned, was not particularly positive at the Committee meeting. Although our motion for a resolution has been taken note of but not supported – and will probably not be supported either. So much for it. And I can only say: a pity, a pity, a pity! You can not only expect the others to participate in everything, but you just want to brew your own egg, so to speak. Reality is much more that we have a very good state of our drinking water, quite contrary to the conditions under which many people have to live on this earth. 1.4 billion people do not have access to drinking water; 2 billion people have only access to high quality drinking water. That is why we have also tabled our motion for a resolution on GATS in order to prevent Austrian water resources from being sold out during these service negotiations. I think very much of it when the know-how is passed on to other countries in this respect, but we also have to start with ourselves. For example, the reality is that in Lower Austria the groundwater is burdened with nitrate like ever before and many people have to use nitrate-loaded drinking water. We can't close our eyes before that either! That's why I have to say: It is also true that the approval of groundwater-damaging projects by farmers concerned has been passed by the Land authorities or these people have been excluded. It was also a great concern for us to keep the public of the proceedings safe. – We could not reach an agreement in all central things! They have to take note of the government parties very easily: You can't expect us to do something that you yourself in no way do with requests from the Greens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20341	The next speaker was Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20359	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the EU Water Framework Directive is being adopted. I would like to congratulate the Ministry and the officials: It was a lot of work, but it was a good work, and this law can and must be judged positively. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This directive has succeeded in improving water quality in the future. This Directive implements key issues such as the introduction of hazardous substances into water, including sustainable water use. Work has also been done on the solutions relating to cross-border water problems. The key words “protection of land and ecosystems and wetlands” are included in this Directive – and that means environmental protection. Environmental objectives are precisely defined and defined to ensure that the ecological and chemical state of the surface waters and, of course, a good chemical state of groundwater are guaranteed in the future. Time limits and stages for implementation are provided for in this Act. The EU Water Framework Directive contains a deterioration ban, which is the basis for a single water economic data pool. A wormhead drop – I give you the right of opposition – is the abolition of the water protection report presented every three years. Personally, I would also like this to continue to be presented. At least, we were able to achieve the freedom to pass on the Water Framework Directive Report to the EU and also to Parliament every six years. In the expert hearing, it was complained that the Austrian philosophy that groundwater must be drinking water no longer emerges from this novelle. We have tabled a motion for a resolution which clearly defines: Groundwater must be drinking water, or at least it should be the target of drinking water. It was difficult to implement this legislative innovation with today's day. The hydroelectric power plants had to be involved, too many different interests, such as land interests and fisheries interests, and the most important thing, our nature, had to be taken into account. All the interests were represented, and I know how difficult it was for officials to incorporate these interests into this law. Finally, however, nature and environmental protection have gained the most. With the Austrian implementation of this EU Water Framework Directive, we will again be a model in Europe. All measures for the environment were and are, in our opinion, important to the liberals, and I call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to give your consent to this bill. It's a good law, and I think the opposition could live with it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This would send a clear signal for the benefit of our environment and thus for the benefit of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20427	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20445	Mr President. Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Water and the Environment! Did I say all of this now? You have one day on the... – Not in the right order. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That is comprehensive, but not in the right order!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, you are still interested in water! I would like to refer very briefly to Mrs Achleitner's statement, which meant that in Upper Austria all of this would be so exemplary, as there is now a flood protection plan. – There is it, but I'll invite you: Come on. Once and look at what this plan has done up to now! - Nothing! Then you also said that the first groundwater restoration areas would have been in Upper Austria. – The first to be ordered was the Machland East Groundwater Rehabilitation. As soon as it was decreed, it disappeared again, because one has come up with the fact that the federal government and the country have too much to pay for compensation. And by doing so, the rehabilitation area has been dropped. [[Abg. Far from it: It’s pretty “exemplary”!]] Now the burden is again on the water producing association and thus on the citizens. – As much as it is in Upper Austria. But that's not my real topic right now. My topic is the new law on water law – a milestone in turn, whereby with the milestones it becomes quite dangerous for the citizens who fly so deep. And here I found interesting terms, headlines such as “water information system Austria is planned” – we would have needed better information last year. For example, I am thinking about this thing with ADONI – which is gone again in the meantime –: She has nothing to do with this, but: Information would be important. River catchment plans will exist, national water management plans – something quite decisive – and measures to do so. But all of this will only take place from 2009. Until then, no water must come, especially no flood. Then I read in § 38 (3), I think, is it so beautiful – what is it called there?; I took this extra with me –: The area covered by 30-year-old floodwaters is considered a floodwater drainage area. – So I’ve been hoping for quiet, breathed through: 30-year-old HQ. What does that mean? – People take that very, very easy. The 100-year-old would be at least a base, and last year we had a 200-year-old, which you don't even talk about. I have the slightest suspicion that the lower limit is as deep as possible here as possible, in order not to become a payer in the case of measures. And by the way, payers – you can see this very clearly now –: In the restitutions, in the renovations, I notice that the money flows very, very sparsely – in Upper Austria at least; as it looks in Lower Austria, I do not know. The municipalities finance before, the country cannot pay because the federal government is sparse. The Minister for Finance said, however, in a reply to a question: Well, the countries can have advances, and we will pay almost everything that the countries have to offer us. – Yes, please, where is this money?! – People are waiting for it, even private people are waiting! In addition: We have a huge problem: Upper Austria. There are compensations, so around 40 percent, but they only get you if you prove 100 percent. Those who may have already gone into the flood with debt, in order to put it that way, now have to borrow loans so that they get this 40 percent of compensation. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! This is not exemplary, there are other possibilities and other methods! – Unfortunately, my speaking time is over. I now have one last question, and that is what I am saying to you, Minister of State: Mr. Finanzminister and Mr. Bundeskanzler spoke again in the budget debate last year and this year that the Republic of Austria did not have six interception hunters because we had floods. Can you tell me when the flood victims will finally have these resources that we have saved ourselves, according to the Minister of Finance and Chancellors?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20495	From the government bank, Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20513	Mr President. High house! The European Union took a completely new approach to European water policy with the Water Framework Directive in 2000. It sets out how we should jointly make water protection, water use policy in Europe. With the Novelle Water Law Act, we have now embarked on implementing this Water Framework Directive, which will in many respects bring decisive improvements, also into national law. Ladies and gentlemen! This water law law novelle is indeed a milestone from the point of view of water policy. For the first time we implement clear and clearly ecological criteria in the Water Law Act, we are taking the public part in the discussion about the action plans for monitoring much more than it has been in the past. Environmental, nature conservation associations up to the economy, various stakeholders will be able to actively participate in the discussion on water policy. The prohibition of deterioration in this Water Law Act is also a decisive advantage for the future. Ladies and gentlemen! If, now, it is said that this law on water law would come too quickly, i.e. inconceivable, then I can only resist: European Union Water Framework Directive in 2000, discussion in Austria for two years with all interest groups at national and local level, with all those concerned, six weeks review of the Water Law Act Novelle, then also offer of the resort to all clubs – some of them noticed this early, some later – to hear experts and to discuss this matter. We have also made many changes. There was an expert hearing in the committee. I don't think it's possible to do more transparently in the case of a new law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What are the essential innovations? – We set new standards in the ecologicalisation of water policy. We are moving away from the point-by-point approach of assessment in the Water Law Act to a holistic policy of demarcating river areas, demarcating regions, thinking across Europe. I think this is an important development. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! All this because water is our most important food because we sit here in Austria on a treasure and because the water is also a huge chance for our future. But, ladies and gentlemen, we also have responsibility. We've done this in the past. 99 percent of the population draw their water from spring and groundwater, unique worldwide! 86 percent of the population have connected their households to wastewater treatment facilities. There, too, ecological milestones have been set in the past. 87 percent of the running waters have at least the quality class II. In 1998 it was only 81 percent. In such a short period of time a noticeable increase! One sees that the water law law has also fulfilled its meaning so far, and I say the water law novelle will bring forward another qualitative leap. All lakes in Austria have bathing water quality, many lakes have drinking water quality. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently using 3 per cent of our water supply. We have now laid the best foundation for the water future of Austria with this law on water law, which we are discussing and dealing with here today. We have also thought in the Water Law Act of not building up additional bureaucratic barriers in the sense of the population, but rather slender, yet efficient, and effective implementation. We will create a completely new basis in the data material for planning with the single water economic data pool, the Austrian water information system – it has been addressed. Ladies and gentlemen! There will also be a report every six years to the House, namely the National Water Management Plan, which we will at least implement consistently in accordance with the provisions of the Water Framework Directive and will also present to the public. Ladies and gentlemen! We will be protecting the water from the dangers of man – pollution! – with the Water Law, we can set new standards, just as we implemented this point by point after the flood of last year. We will also provide the basis for this – and have already done so – through the Water Law, how we can use water efficiently in Austria in the future. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On these three questions: Protecting the water from humans, protecting people from water and how we use water in the future, this law on water law gives novelle the right answer.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20570	Mr Glaser is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20589	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! With a comprehensive revision of the Water Law Act, we are implementing the European Union Water Framework Directive in time. I personally like the access that we have an overall view of the water catchment area here, much better than looking at this picture in detail, as before. Wherever such individual views can lead, for me a lake is always a crass example, namely the Aral Sea in Kazakhstan, which had a flourishing, beautiful landscape 40 years ago and is today a salt desert, where half of the surface and two thirds of the volume have been lost, caused by the redirection of rivers or the use of water for an intensive monoculture, namely cotton. If you now think that is an aspect that could absolutely not come into question with us, then, I believe, this is only conditional, because there are very specific plans, for example, that you want water to flow from the Raab into the Neusiedler Lake. These plans are already relatively far-reaching. You could say that's at least the same water catchment area. At the same time, however, Hungary also has plans to introduce water from the Raab into the Lake Plate. In both cases the mirrors of the lakes are falling, and one is mainly afraid of tourism. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You see, I'm less concerned about water quality. This has been addressed a number of times so far. I personally believe that this is true, as our Federal Minister has said – and this has also been demonstrated – that water quality is a relatively high overall result of the high rate of waste water disposal, also due to the decline of various entries from agriculture, so that, I believe, we need to have less concern here than in many parts of Austria for the amount of water. As we have been mentioned several times today that we have relatively low crops: This is related to the current relatively low rainfall. Then, too, the aspect is that if you want to water, you have to take into account the groundwater body, the water as a whole. There are very contrasting developments. This is an example of my home flow, the Lafnitz, so to speak: This is a river that hardly regulates, which is very natural, where passive flood protection was carried out for the first time and has proved itself very positively, where one has a Ramsar-x wetland, where one has already completed a life project and wants to install another. Nevertheless, we also have great problems there that, due to the lack of water management, wells are closed, or there are conflicts of use that one simply wants to water, but on the other hand a Ramsar protection area, to maintain a wetland. That is why I am very glad that there is an overall view of the water impact area here, because I believe that this is important, but I would like to conclude by saying that I believe that there has been this overall view through the water industry and the water construction of Austria so far. What we are now doing with this law is that we can put this together on a legal basis and thus put the best possible measures from the overall perspective. And that's why I think this is a big step for our water in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20631	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20649	High house! Before everything falls asleep, maybe a few quotes. Thank God some are still on the matter. The Federal Minister has in his contribution... – This is basically a good suggestion. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Water in the evening promotes healthy sleep!]] To conclude that the water in Austria would be so great and great everywhere, as Mr Pröll has brought here: Unfortunately, this is not the case because very many people in Austria have to drink water on the basis of the drinking water exemption regulation, that is: Water that does not comply with the directives. That is what you know, Minister of State, is to be read in the water reports. In our view, it is particularly a pity that this water protection report is set with this novel, which is set at this frequency of three years. Federal Minister! The maintenance of this phenomenon would have been necessary in order to conduct the corresponding political discussion and also to carry out the controlling properly. [[The speaker lifts the water glass.]] So on the water! - Yes. That's it. [[Abg. Arbitrators: The 2. High water line is very good!]] But this is known to come from the Alps, and there the situation is certainly better. The quality class of the waters in Austria: Mr Federal Minister, we are very likely to have a deterioration, namely in the area of Guettekas I, that is, in the best water quality of our rivers. In 1966, 1971 still had 15 percent grade I, 2001, 2002 was only 6 percent. This means that, especially in rural areas, diffuse entries are the case – obviously in low formation, but still in the case. [[Abg. Wittauer: The Minister is asleep!]] - I'm trying to keep him down. In rural areas in particular, there are therefore diffuse entries, and there is a real need to ask whether waste water disposal, as it is to be further developed at the moment, is really the problem with the boat and it is efficient and economical. Federal Minister! We now have a connection rate of 86 percent. In 2002, we completed 2500 projects, i.e. the largest number of projects, and we have to register that this sector has been invested by €10 billion since 1993. Thank God, I say on the one hand, but on the other hand, it must be borne in mind that in the years 2003 to 2015, additional 8 billion will be needed – according to the information of the municipal credit, which interviews with municipalities and interested parties. Here – and this is already to be said – the opportunity of the Novelle Water Law Act to improve and use waste water disposal measures in rural areas, which are more cost-effective, has not been used to implement appropriate measures. In this context, I am thinking of the possibilities of shattering and sifting or the need for harmonisation in the field of variant examination and water law law, Mr Federal Minister. I therefore very much welcome the proposals made in your motion for a resolution, Mr Wittauer and Mr Achleitner, who presented the idea of new ways of waste water disposal in rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen! If you are serious about this, however, it is necessary to amend the Environmental Promotion Act, to amend the technical directives so that rural and cooperative waste water treatment projects in rural areas can be made possible. They are far more cost-effective, Mr Federal Minister, and far more cost-effective. [[Abg. Eat: read!]] These projects are currently being hindered by the way in which they are handled. The Court of Auditors has expressed its opinion very clearly last year in many comments, but you have not taken these proposals into account either. In conclusion: In our view, ecological flood protection is not implemented at all. When we look at the practical work of the last months – I come from Upper Austria –: Care residues were “removed” – under quotation marks – by rolling down entire biotopes. That can't be flood protection! Mr. Federal Minister, I invite you to: Come to Upper Austria to the Krems to see what was really done there. Care residues of the last 30 years have been almost eliminated with a line by completely uninhabited logging of all shores. That's nonsense! [[Call the ÖVP:Where?]] Come on, I'll show you this, because this is a central problem of flood treatment! Ladies and gentlemen! In this respect, renaturation would be the answer. However, we are missing any prioritisation on the part of the Ministry in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20750	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Mr Achleitner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20772	Mr President. Mr Heinzl claimed that the flood protection plan in Upper Austria did not do anything. – That’s wrong! The fact is that the flood protection plan, which I hold in my hands here, was only drawn up on the basis of flood 2002 and has to develop its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20803	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20822	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a bit a pity that if you look in the ranks, you see only two environmental speakers from the four parliamentary parties sitting here. Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig seems to have thought differently, and... – The environment is more important in this case, I would say. [[Abg. Mandak: Austria Convention, Mr Colleague!]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: How does the Walch always say? Thinking – and then talking!]] When we talk about the law on water law novelle and the water, I think we should also talk about water protection. It is very bad – we have discussed this intensively in committee – that there will be no more water protection reports in the future. However, we have made consensus with the coalition partner that we will continue to receive information on how our waters are ordered, as these waters are very important for our environment. The Committee also discussed – Mrs Sima mentioned this – that agriculture would be, as it were, the main cause of nitrate pollution and problems. I have now looked at this in detail and have to say: It is true, Mrs Colleague, that in intensive areas, for example in Lower Austria and Burgenland, agriculture is certainly problematic. However, I would like to point out to one of my previous speakers, I think that Mr Schultes was right and that I have already said in committee: You also have to see the other side of the medal. Agriculture is certainly also a guarantee for a lot of healthy and very clean water, not only agriculture, but also forestry, and the forestry sector plays a central role in us. However, we also have the problem of waste water, especially in rural areas. We have the problem that, from an economic point of view, it often seems no longer useful to carry out the development with the various sewerizations up to the last level and up to the last few weeks. This is why we should also take new steps in this respect. It was also discussed that, due to the strained financial situation in the rural communities and due to the special consideration for rural areas, it should also be taken to seek alternatives here, to go small-scale clarification plants, plant clarification plants, and new ways. I believe that this is an approach where we will also find a broad consensus, because that is certainly in the interests of all those who live in this area. There is still a very difficult point in the implementation of the proposed Novelle Water Law Act, which has not yet been discussed, namely funding. It is discussed that, of course, additional costs will be incurred for the countries and municipalities. I believe that it is particularly important for a representative from the rural area to ask the Federal Government, the competent minister, to set up a working group so that they can continuously evaluate the future costs, because I believe that this is an important basis for planning the provision of budgetary resources at national and local level. Overall, I think, the change of the water law law is good, it is important and it is also prescribed for us. We will, of course, support this by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, because we consider this to be an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20871	The next item is the speech by Mr Dobnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20890	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The current OECD environmental monitoring is an excellent testimony to Austrian water and especially to the upper Irish water – it is here in the hall on the tables. For example, Austria has excellent water of the best quality in many parts and can provide its population well even in long-lasting dry periods. Unfortunately, there are also some regions in which there are problems with water supply. It will be necessary to draw up appropriate concepts very soon. According to the OECD, Austria has a rather positive impact on the supply of drinking water, the improvement of water quality, the clean-up of lakes, rivers and groundwater, and the expansion of municipal treatment plants. Nevertheless, there are still a number of homework to be done, such as achieving a better ecological status of the rivers while improving the conservation of flood waves, spatial planning with a view to protecting the population in flood-hazarded areas or further improvements in agriculture to reduce the entry of nitrate into groundwater. With the implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive into national law, the unique opportunity to take a further crucial step towards the ecologicalisation of domestic waters in Austria, particularly in the "Year of Water". The aim of the directive is to ensure a good ecological status of all surfaces and groundwater. This will be achieved within 15 years while ensuring a sustainable water economy. So far, the need for clean water has increased steadily, but at the same time, unfortunately, many have human activity. to provide for contaminants and contaminants, which has significantly negatively affected the water resource in Europe in terms of quantity and quality. EU water policy focuses on, among other things, the definition of a holistic approach that covers the entire river catchment area to the extent necessary, the widespread departure from the previously pursued user-related approach to an ecologically oriented protection philosophy and the involvement of the public in planning. Ladies and gentlemen from the government groups, with the current implementation of the EU Directive in the form of the Novelle Water Law Act, you are in favour of reversing this opportunity to a decade's law, namely that you are whipping this decisive innovation in the rapid procedure by Parliament: without adequate treatment and discussion in the Committee and plenary. This is also completely incomprehensible because the implementation of the Water Framework Directive would not have to take place until December this year. It would therefore be time to deal with this important issue more thoroughly and intensively and thus allow my group to agree to this amendment. Similarly, it would have been possible to discuss and eliminate serious issues of content which have occurred in the review procedure, such as the weakness of the formulations, which entails widespread legal uncertainty, the impermanence of the prohibition of deterioration, the redefinition of the state of the art, where the quality site is softened, or the deterioration in the area of flood protection, because the increasing probability of hundreds of years of flooding has not been taken into account. In any case, in the current version, we cannot agree to this proposal by Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20951	The next speaker was Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20969	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria has achieved much in the last decades in the protection of water. This should not mean, however, that existing things cannot be improved. On the contrary: The Novelle Water Law Act now in place implements the Water Framework Directive into national law and for the first time introduces a comprehensive water protection in the EU. This means that all domestic waters must be in a good ecological condition by 2015 or be brought into such a state. The deterioration ban must not make the initial state of the waters worse. The great achievements of Austria through the Water Law Act will therefore continue to make our country a leader in water quality. In Austria, for example, the comprehensive approach has already been applied: Groundwater is supposed to have drinking water quality! It should be borne in mind, however, that the starting point in Austria is at a much higher level when implementing the Water Framework Directive than is the case in many other EU Member States. Environmental pollution and therefore also possible water pollution do not stop before national borders. The same applies to quantitative water supply. The enormous forces of previous floods have also shown us in my home region, Waldviertler Grenzland, that flood protection cannot be dealt with alone by national provisions. That is why the only right approach to this directive is to design cross-border and cross-border planning areas. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] The Water Framework Directive is a planning directive. It therefore provides for the setting of quality targets for water. Quality objectives are to be achieved through integrated action programmes as the main component of river basin management plans, with the aim of involving the public, including water users, in decision-making processes. Here, in particular, the close cooperation of the administration with the relevant stakeholders in the rural area is required. At this point I would like to thank the officials of the Ministry for the exemplary preparation of this complex legislative matter. Ladies and gentlemen! Waste water disposal in rural areas is a high technical and therefore also a major financial challenge due to topographic and geological conditions. Kilometres of wastewater canals through the hardest In the past, granite had not only been subject to sintering, but in some cases it was also ecologically worrying as overland drains. Therefore, the rural inhabitants are very grateful for the fact that this new water law law focuses on the holistic solution approach. This means that the most efficient solutions are used from an ecological and economic point of view and that even the difficult financial situation of some small rural communities has to be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen! This law guarantees that the most important food, our water, will continue to be maintained at a high quality level in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21027	The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. Desirable for 4 minutes. When you approach the 4 minutes, I make a small “bumper. ” [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Just so you know. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21051	If you stop me for five minutes, Mr President, I would rather. Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I've really looked around and I've got to find out: The non-presence of the first speakers of the government party ÖVP, head and ellwall, is really significant for how "important" this water law law novelle is to you. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Where is the clubman of the SPÖ?]] You are treating us here in plenary as you have actually dealt with us in committee. In a relatively short time, the novel was delivered to us, and according to the "fresh, bird, or death!" method, we have had the opportunity to either agree or be opposed. Ladies and gentlemen! I have already pointed out in the Committee that this legal matter is very delicate and, I believe, it is really undisputed – it is a very controversial legal matter that is often disputed over generations. The changes are deeply involved in private and public interests. We would have liked to have been involved in the negotiations in good time. Water law – we all know – is also a very essential factor for electricity generation in our country. I would have liked to say a few things today. Unfortunately, time is not enough. Just so much: The share of hydropower in renewable energy sources is a total of more than 90 percent, and the global CO2 emissions by 2010 would be 51 percent higher for electricity generation without the use of hydropower. I wanted to point this out in every case. Ladies and gentlemen! The ban on deterioration has already been mentioned several times today. I would just like to point out that it is not new, but it has so far said: “according to the state of the art”. This term has been watered down. It is rather true that the use of new technologies is only slowed down. If the Water Law Novelle itself already brings with it certain deteriorations in the design, then one can easily talk about a deterioration ban. What I also lack is a clear competence, a clear allocation of responsibilities to the federal and state states. We all know: If the responsibilities are unclear, vaguely regulated, then this can very quickly lead to a standstill. That means no one is responsible, and nothing goes on at all. [[Abg. Wittauer: You have to include the countries, that is no different!]] Mr Wittauer, I shall come to your "glorious" motion for a resolution. I'm allowed to quote from it because the goal is not clear to me here. Probably it should go back to a time that we actually forgot. I quote from the motion for a resolution, Kopf, Wittauer: “The undisputed achievement of the environmental objectives will be accompanied in the future by an economic evaluation of the various possible measures within the respective planning space.” – Well, that’s how you can live. And on top of that: “This means that it will be the most efficient means of achieving the objectives.” – Also a suitable formulation, but then it comes: “This also means, among other things, that there will be cases in the municipal waste water area where the actual state of the waters allows for less stringent emission limits for plants or does not require re-improvement.” – Quotes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You already have the clear deterioration in the law, and you are talking about the ban on deterioration. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] In total, Mr Wittauer, your motion for a resolution is the visible proof of what is still missing in this novel, and that is why we cannot give our approval to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21126	I call Mr Gahr. Four minutes. I'll be there too.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21145	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For Austria, the topic of water is an important but above all very sensitive topic. We have now been discussing for two years an open dialogue on how to implement the EU Water Framework Directive. Clean and good water is the basis and capital for agriculture, economy and tourism and a daily food for citizens. Austria is a safe pioneer in terms of water and water protection in Europe. We have always protected our drinking water areas and already protected areas and kept them from influences. However, we have also done our homework in the area of wastewater treatment. Evidence of this is that Austria has achieved a level of connectivity in the field of canalization of almost 90 percent. While other countries are still unexplained about discharge their waste water into the sea, Austria is providing sewerage across the board. It is a challenge and duty for us to implement this EU Water Framework Directive and not to let the deadline pass, but to be timely. The aim of this EU Water Framework Directive is to ensure that there are European standards, that we meet set targets by 2027 and that we implement an accompanying control action programme. There should be uniform standards for all countries in Europe. Everyone has to do something in this area, all have to make changes – for the benefit of the water. We must set objectives in line, we must focus on ecology. We also involve the public when it comes to protecting our most precious property. The cornerstones of this law on water law are: legal framework conditions with a contemporary basis, because the requirements are constantly changing, protection on an equal basis for all waters, streams, lakes, wetlands, but also Moore or a Tyrolean glacier, and transparency in fees. However, we also need more cost efficiency, taking into account ecological and economic criteria. There are also alternative models such as plant clarification plants or modular small-clearing plants if the costs are no longer expected. We also want to anchor ecological principles in the field of flood protection. The Water Framework Directive is therefore an opportunity, and with the new Water Law Act we ensure water quality in the long term, yes we can expand it. We want to establish sustainable water use, we want to take care instead of aftercare and protect it instead of rehabilitation. With the new Water Law, the topic of water remains in swing or, better said, in river. It is a foundation on which we can build, and the way is open for a free and good water future in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21196	Mr Eßl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 4 minutes – and Bimmel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21220	The water actually tastes very good, almost as good as at home, where it comes out on the field I manage as a farmer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The amendment of the Water Law Act takes account not only of the requirements of the European Union, namely the installation of the water supply system, but also of the need to improve the quality of life. the framework directive in the law, but today we have succeeded in a comprehensive work that is forward-looking and the result of a policy with home mind. Especially in the field of wastewater disposal, we urgently need this house mind in the future, because so far it has been said: Upgrade, cost it what it wants! The Federal Minister has already mentioned that a point was made earlier, namely: Let us start, at the expense of what it wants, and now the overall situation will be observed accordingly. I am grateful that § 12a reads: ‘In determining the state of the art, the criteria set out in Annex H shall be taken into account when taking into account the costs and benefits of a given measure and the principle of prevention and prevention in general as well as in individual cases.’ This means that the principle of proportionality is properly incorporated into this law, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a minor question, for example, whether, for remote farms, a mere insignificant improvement in environmental impacts may justify huge investment through comprehensive measures. The same applies, of course, to the smaller communities. It is therefore also good that § 33 continues to grant the head of state a decision-making competence for a policy. I can say something about the costs. We know that in 1995 we had connected about 75 percent of our households to the Channel Network, and now we are 86 percent. We know that this improvement by 11 percent has cost three quarters of the cost, which was at the cost of achieving the 75 percent connection rate. Each percent that is more developed represents a huge price increase for the overall system. That is why, I believe, one should use this § 12a accordingly and consider alternative possibilities. Finally, it is also important to me that clarifications regarding § 34 were made in the explanations, namely that water protection is a legal form of water protection. From my point of view, it is the best and most effective kind of protection, because in this case the farmers of soil and soil also identify themselves with the measures themselves. Specific practices and non-prohibitions and bids decide on the effectiveness of environmental measures, so we need incentives and practical programmes. In this context, I would like to mention the Austrian programme for environmentally sound agriculture as an example. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, with this legislative matter, it will be possible to meet the demands of society, the requirements of our fellow citizens in Austria. Voices Therefore, you with us for the people in our country to this law!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21285	As the last speaker, Mr Magistrate now comes. Donner builder for 2 minutes. I'm asking you to lower the general sound level a little! Mr Donnerbauer, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21306	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to speak briefly and say something about the motion for a resolution. Deputies Sburny, Glavischnig, friends and friends regarding cross-border EIA regarding a planned shopping center in the Czech Republic. Mrs Glavischnig is no longer here, but I can only say one to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group: Good morning, because this project, for which you are now calling for a cross-border EIA, is practically complete. The project has already been known since the spring of the previous year, it has also been very intensively discussed in the region, and it has finally been concluded that this outlet center is entirely in the Czech field, that it will not be possible to prevent from our side, which is why the result was that one will try to do the best out of this project – which we certainly did not want, but which, as has already been said, in the Czech field. That is to say, there are already constructive discussions with operators in order to have a certain input in the region in Austria as far as possible in the area of the Kleinhaugsdorf crossing of the frequency, which will undoubtedly go from there. [[Unrest in the hall.]] On my second point, I would like to ask you for support so that we can progress together here: It was rightly mentioned in your request that...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21342	I'd ask you to listen to the speaker!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21375	It was rightly mentioned in your request that the traffic situation in this area is already very difficult. I should therefore like to ask you to support the solution of this transport problem, in the form of an adequate extension of the transport link. In the area of the village of Jetzelsdorf we have already begun to build a detour. The country of Lower Austria is already dealing with this solution, but there are still substantial parts missing, and I would be pleased if this traffic situation in my immediate home area at the Kleinhaugsdorf border crossing were so much at your heart that you would be involved! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21402	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Mr Donnerbauer! Mrs Mag. Glavischnig is at a Bureau meeting of the Austrian Convention on the Rules of Procedure and cannot be represented there. [[Abg. Neudeck: Are all the others there?]] A final word on the part of the rapporteur is not wanted. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 166 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall come to the third reading immediately, and I would ask for a sign on this point. - That's the majority. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Sburny, ladies and gentlemen, on a cross-border EIA on major projects at the Kleinhaugsdorf crossing. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kopf and Mr Wittmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the protection of Austrian water resources... [[Call to the Freeman:Wittauer!]] What have I read? – I’m improving: We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kopf and Wittauer, ladies and gentlemen, on the protection of Austrian water resources through efficient planning. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 13.) 21. Point report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection (74 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Environmental Information Act (UIG-Novelle 2003) (167 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21469	We now reach the 21st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Mr Schopf is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21500	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, perhaps you could make sure that it is a little calmer in the house!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21515	I really ask the speaker to pay the basic respect and not to step in these final hours without any obstacles! I call Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21539	On the topic of environmental information law: The present government proposal on this law is intended to take account of the trade regulations with newly introduced fault schemes and the industrial accident regulation. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, this law is to implement the so-called Seveso II Directive. The fact is that this amendment restricts the information obligations of the notified undertakings. In the future, these companies will no longer have to provide their incident information every two years, but only every five years. This leads to an unacceptable risk increase in installations with hazardous substances or hazardous potential. That is one of the reasons why we Socialists today reject this government proposal. Unfortunately, this deterioration is so serious for our people in particular that the positive aspects that are undoubtedly present are covered. It should be noted that, in the future, local planning and construction authorities must in any case be included in the incident information. Praiseworthy is also the reduction of double-tracks in the administration. It is also very good that in the future businesses will have to keep their fault plans open to the public. That means to me that they essentially have to put them on the Internet. The government's argument is: The extension of the information interval from two to five years is expected to reduce the administrative burden. According to this logic, it would be – under quotations – the “best” to extend the information interval to 20, 30 or 50 years, because then the administrative burden would be almost null. But we need more information and not less for the purpose of providing useful environmental information to protect people and nature! As the Republic of Austria and as an Austrian economy, we need to be able to afford the increased administrative burden and thus security! This government and you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, are saving most important here, in terms of security for our people! [[Abg. Wittauer: This is stupid!]] I would have liked you to apply this government argument to the interceptors too! Zero interceptors cause lower or no administrative costs compared to 18 interceptors! But with the interception hunters you have chosen the most expensive variant. [[Abg. Murauer: (in the direction of Abg. Walter, stay serious!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That was a “talk” comparison now! Parliament is “delighted at enthusiasm ” over this “restoric glamour”!]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Especially in my home country, the Mühlviertel, the population is particularly scared because of the bordering nuclear power station Temelin and the recessless disturbances, and that rightly, ladies and gentlemen! At last, the government would have to act with all its determination and ensure complete and fastest environmental information. Only if one is immediately informed of limit values can one act immediately and perhaps prevent the worst. Mr Murauer, this amendment does not make any improvement in the legal situation regarding interference in military installations. In this respect too, environmental information should be improved and cleaned up with mystery. There too the Federal Government is sparse. In summary, you have to say: Although the novelle serves to reduce double-driving in the administration, the reporting requirements of the establishments deteriorate. Thus, environmental protection and the people to be protected are rendered a poor service. We, as social democrats, are unfortunately unable to give this law the consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21616	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, 4 minutes speaking time. – I give you a signal, colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21635	Mr President. Minister! High house! In Austria, as Mr Schopf has pointed out, the information of the public is regulated in two laws in the case of possible incidents, namely the environmental information law, the law of which we process or decide today, and in the trade regulation. In addition, it is also important to have an EU directive on control in the event of serious accidents involving dangerous substances, the so-called Seveso II directive. In general, the aim of the UIG is to inform the public about the environment, in particular through the regulation of free access to the environmental data available to the institutions of management and by the obligation to provide information to certain investment operators in cases of disturbance. Ladies and gentlemen! We have to expect and do cost-benefit analyses over and over again, and with this novel, the status quo is not worsened, but it is also improved. We of the ÖVP always have an eye on economy and ecology together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, the Environmental Information Act and the Commercial Regulations contain different rules. There is a different terminology, the UIG is still referring to the old provisions of the Industrial Code and does not yet take into account this so-called Seveso II Directive. The circle of information-based installations is specified in the incident information regulation. This Regulation shall be adopted in agreement with the relevant Minister. Section 8a of the Industrial Regulation regulates the information of the public, which may be affected by a serious industrial accident, for certain major industrial plants. There are, in turn, implementing provisions in the so-called Industrial Accident Regulation. Industrial accident law differs with its information provisions by different deadlines, which are now to be harmonised, and different terms in some areas still differ from the UIG. Ladies and gentlemen! The main improvements are the harmonisation of the UIG's accident information provisions with the Seveso II Directive and industrial accident law. For example, the two-year information interval has been increased to five years, but with the obligation to review after three years. That means: After three years, it can be decided once again whether this five-year information obligation makes sense. However, regardless of that, businesses are still obliged to pass on information on incidents, without delay. A second improvement is the implementation of the information provisions under the Seveso II Directive, and a third improvement is the obligation to provide information in the event of cross-border effects. – That means that we have also achieved improvements in this area Important changes in detail are also the fact that local planning and construction authorities are at least included in the incident information, as well as the redefinition of the concept of ‘distortion’. In terms of content, the definition of the serious accident is adopted in accordance with the trade regulations, but it is not linked to the criterion of the presence of dangerous substances. After this UIG-Novelle 2003 the incident information regulation is to be further updated and updated – which is still the music of the future. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, in this area, too, the success of the EIA's path, the consistency of economy and ecology, will continue. Voices Therefore, you agree to this UIG-Novelle 2003! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21705	Mrs Glawischnig is now speaking for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21723	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! High house! We do not agree with this amendment; I would like to justify this briefly. It is true that, on the one hand, it is about adapting Seveso provisions, environmental information law and industrial regulation and, on the other hand, the obligation to provide information for non-commercial installations, for example in the field of shooting and explosives. A major deterioration, which is contained in this proposal, which is now before the adoption of the decision, is due to the already mentioned provision of interval. Instead of at a distance from, as before, two years, the population and also all the authorities – and this is not irrelevant – are only to inform more than every five years about what incidents may occur and what behaviors are necessary or desirable in such a case. Whether the establishments of the three-year obligation to update will be met if only a five-year interval is required for the important obligation, is very questionable. I think that a five-year interval is a period in which an average person forgets what he really needs to do in the event of an accident in a shooting and explosive plant in order to protect himself. In my opinion, this is a major deterioration. This is the level of trade regulation that we have already criticized. There is another fundamental point why we do not want to accept this proposal at the moment: In the negotiations with the EIA, we have, on and on a consensus, achieved that the new Environmental Information Directive, which is now ready at European level and is to be implemented by 2004 and which represents an improvement in the basis for the provision of environmental information – and I quote below – is immediately transposed into national law. Now we do a part – and the next part will come until the end of 2004. As we decide to do this, the ministry will start working on the new novelle again in autumn. – I don't think that makes sense. In addition, the Bar Association with the warning index finger again holds the number of federal laws or the laws that we decide each year and speaks of the flood of law. Why isn't that right? It is above all an improvement in the sense that contamination in the food sector – and this is a very important question for consumers – is also included in the concept of environmental information. It is incomprehensible why this is not being implemented at the same time and why there is now a deterioration. You could not answer these questions, and that is a reason for us not to agree to this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21770	The last speaker was Mr Wittauer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21788	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment to the Environmental Information Act introduces an adaptation of the information requirements of the incident to the Seveso II Directive, and further harmonisation with the Industrial Code and the Industrial Accidents Regulation is implemented. Mr Schopf tried here a power act between environmental information and interception hunters. – I think you have now been persecuted by the interceptors in such a way that you are no longer interested in any other topic! [[Abg. Schopf: This is also very important!]] There are questions in question here, and I would therefore address the content more and not something else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wicker.]] Of course, I would like to make the Seveso II directive available so that you too know about it, because then you would agree to this law! This should be implemented since 1989, the decision-making process took place in 1992, and we are now a little late on the last step in the implementation of this innovation. This system is already contained in the Industrial Regulation 1994 for industrial plants and is also the necessary provision for information to that effect. It is essential that the Seveso II Directive is also implemented for non-commercial plants in the competence of the federal government. It was also noted that non-implementation would be a breach of contract which would result in a proceeding against Austria. The aim is to be able to react quickly and efficiently even with dangerous substances in the event of serious accidents. The implementation of this Directive will also ensure better protection for the population. This will also reduce the administrative burden. We of the Liberals welcome this renewal and will, of course, agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21831	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur did not say a word of closing. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 167 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. In turn, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 22. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (117 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Plant Protection Act 1995, the Health and Food Safety Act, the Feed Act 1999 and the Quality Class Act (Agricultural Change Act 2003) (157 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21880	We're now on the 22nd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21906	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This law on agricultural law is once again an example of how different legislative instruments, in this case in the agricultural field, are being manned into a collective legislative novel. Federal Minister! In this context, I would remind you that the Federal Constitutional Service is constantly encouraging that such collection ovens should be neglected. They no longer provide clarity, and they do not serve precisely to ensure that the opposition can really agree with the requests it considers to be right. With this in mind, we will call for a separate vote. Indeed, we can very well give our approval to the revision of the Plant Protection Act because it concerns EU adaptations. However, I will explain below why we cannot support and therefore cannot support the further planned changes in the field of food safety law and forestry law. The debate on the Agency for Food Safety and the Federal Office for Food security has repeatedly shown that it is not only a question of maintaining federal competence, but also of presenting a comprehensive annual food report, which summarises in a report all areas of control, from agricultural resources to pesticide residues in foodstuffs. This is still overdue, Minister of State! They suggest that there should very probably be official news from the Federal Office, but that they only serve to announce regulations and publish tariffs. That is not enough, it is far too little, we need a comprehensive food report so that the Austrian people and this House can have documents here that can be sufficiently discussed, which form a basis for seeing whether we are making progress in the field of quality assurance, in the field of nutrition. On the Novelle des Forstgesetz, ladies and gentlemen, the following: They have obviously committed formal errors in the last novel of the Forestry Act in the area of facilitated clearance. That is why we can't accept it, because at the time we also refused to approve the facilitated clearance of areas of up to 1 000 square metres. So far as our reason why we cannot agree. I hope that in the future you will distance yourself from such collective legislative changes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21941	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. Same time of speech: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21959	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The present government paper on the Agricultural Law Change Act, which includes the topics of plant protection, health and food safety, feed law, quality class law and forestry law, is about EU adaptations to which I stand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to refer specifically to the amendments to the 1995 Plant Protection Act in my statement on this collection novel. This Directive shall be binding in its entirety and considers that new rules for the import of plants and plant products from third countries, in particular with regard to the cooperation of plant protection services with customs authorities, should be laid down. It is important in this Directive that in the transport of plants, plant products and other objects, the risk of introduction and spread of harmful organisms should be mitigated. We already have to fight in Austria with many pests and pathogens, starting from the borch beetle to the fire. They cause millions of damage annually in the forestry industry, but also in agriculture. Especially now that we in some federal states are fighting against the spread of fire fire – and this is very important – we want to protect ourselves from new infections with these provisions, just as we want to do abroad. For our importing companies, this new directive represents an improvement in the conditions of competition vis-à-vis the other Member States of the EU. Our companies, which export their goods in wood packaging in third countries, benefit to an even greater extent from these new regulations. In the past there have been problems in plant exports over and over again due to new international obligations regarding wood packaging in international trade. These difficulties can be eliminated by the new Regulation by establishing clear procedural arrangements for the registration and authorisation of establishments and the markings to be used. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In concrete terms, the imported plants are examined for pests and diseases at test sites. The official control shall be carried out by the Federal Food Safety Office and the customs authorities. The costs of enforcement shall be covered by fees imposed by the competent authority. The budget is therefore not burdened, and this is particularly important in view of the current economic situation and, of course, for the budget. I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to agree to this Agricultural Law Change Act. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22017	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Speaking time: 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22035	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the outset, a comment on the comments made by Mr Wittauer: I already believe you are hurt by the interceptors, especially when I remember that you have made sure that the interceptors are not bought, that you have made sure that the pension reduction reform does not come. Thank you very much for your efforts! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Democrats will give their consent to the present bill. We also believe that this legislation on agricultural law would have been even more possible, for example, evaluations of the feed law, which Mr Maier has already done today. The Forestry Act would also have made possible innovations. The experience of the last few weeks and months could have been included. On behalf of Mr Pirklhuber: I think it makes no sense for this Federal Government to demand additional and new reports in these majority relationships. We know from the committees how to deal with reports: Finally, in plenary, requests are postponed, come into the drawer, no longer come to the agenda. [[Abg. Murauer: In committee!]] I recall, for example, the Green Report, a standard work that you have abstained from the public. [[Abg. Grillisch: You praised him!]] I recall the water protection report you abolished. [[Abg. Grillisch: You praised him so much!]] - I'll talk to you later! . Now a six-year report has been adopted, which means a double-time deterioration. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I give my previous speaker the right to say that this is about the implementation of EU directives. On the one hand, the EU is good at speaking out; on the other hand, when the EU comes up with reforms, it is less good, and one tries to do everything with a targeted and skillful lobbying to prevent such reforms. Col. Grillitsch, interesting is: A high Farm Federal Officer becomes a Minister of Agriculture in Austria, then he comes to Brussels, makes a proposal and suddenly has no idea. Can you explain to me why? Fischler's name is Fischler. [[Abg. Grill: How was that? You praised him like that!]] You have put it “down” and said that it is ruining Austrian agriculture with its very interesting proposal, to which you can come quite closer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] You have enforced a reform that has become a referendum. You have managed to reach a compromise with which everyone is satisfied. And everyone knows: A compromise with which everyone is satisfied is a weak compromise, because no one is satisfied with a good compromise, which is just the finer difference. And so, in fact, there's nothing serious about this referendum. The new Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management is particularly good. Minister, I congratulate you! Because of this urgent request, you now know what you have to do. You have a detailed cooking recipe that you have to implement. And thanks to the majority in this house, you have no work left. Federal Minister! If I look at this urgent request, I have to say that it is going back in the direction, as we only partially understand agricultural policy. The development of rural areas has already been mentioned several times today. 80 percent are spent in Austria on rural development. Mr Grillitsch, perhaps give me a list of what happens to this 80 percent rural area! It would be particularly interesting for me to learn what is being used by this 80 percent for the non-farm sector. It's not much. And even in your motion, which is supposed to be urgent, it goes exactly in the same direction. They do not want to distort competition between the regions for agriculture. Well, that would also be the business, so would the small and medium-sized enterprises. They require the best possible use of the financial framework in the interests of the Austrian peasant families. What does that mean, Mr. Federal Minister? – With the additional resources that will flow back, you – this is the order to you – will only strengthen the peasant farms again. It is not about rural areas in the sense that we understand them. [[Abg. Grill: The foundation for safe food!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What we would need in addition to an agricultural law amending legislation would be a 'agricultural policy'!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22151	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22169	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is thanks to God that the SPÖ has now also recognised that it is about agricultural issues. After the topic of agricultural reform, Mr Deputies One of the agricultural experts was sent to the race, at least at a later hour, Mr Kummerer may also give his mustard to it. But obviously good thing sometimes takes some time, and it just took until evening, until we get to the As a result of the debate on the Agricultural Law Change Act, it was now possible to discuss agricultural reform. - That's all right. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: Did you eat the beauty with the spoon?]] The primary issue, however, is the Agricultural Law Change Act. A number of points have already been made by my previous speakers. It is about improved import regulations for plants and plant products, which is certainly a good thing that will be helpful. It is also about cost savings and administrative simplification. I think all these are things that can be very well represented. Second point: Mr Pirklhuber has critically assessed the changes in the Forest Act due to the simplification of the routing. But if you look at the change, you know that it is only a legal change, as you have just said, and I believe that it is also a improvement in the agricultural and forestry sector, which, as it were, is now easier for it to become redundancies. [[Abg. Binder: Your speech is state-bearing!]] Once you look at how much forest grows and how much forest we use, you know that we have several million feet of wood each year more on growth than we use. I think that is why, in such cases, we can do a little easier in the clearing process, because the forest still grows at the doorstep. The pastures are also growing. That's why, I think, one can quietly create a little relief here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another point introduced under this Agricultural Law Change Act is simplification in terms of access for forest bodies to the state audit. In my opinion, it is also not a bad thing that foreign-controlled foresters can also take up the state audit. This is actually a requirement that should also be approved by the opposition. So I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we certainly have a few points here, which one could quietly follow in the form of an agreement. I am convinced that if you look at this in detail, you could still consider your consent. We as the Freedom Party and as a Liberal Group will agree to the changes in agricultural law.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22226	The next speaker is Mr Keussnigg. He'll speak for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22244	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have a package of transpositions of EU directives, administrative simplifications, new administrative regulations and corrections of editorial reports. Some of the details have already been said here, so that I may confine myself to a fundamental comment. On several points, this package of laws makes it aware that the international interdependence of our economy is becoming increasingly strong and we are therefore increasingly concerned with these international agreements. - A ambiguity. But now, for example, the Plant Protection Act, as well as the feed sector, gives rise to an interesting situation. While, for example, food on equality agreements virtually no longer carry out its own in-trafficking checks – i.e. that in the food sector market and competition play full – it is far from the case in the case of agricultural farm resources. In other words, we do not rely on the authorities of other EU countries in the field of food, but on farm resources. However, I am not saying that we should in the case of plants and plant products, plant protection products or feed we should open up the boundaries uncritically. But the situation already has something for itself: On the one hand, the free market can play, but on the other hand, the means of operation, that is where the cost situation of the rural families is concerned, is not so. In any case, there is a need for action, there is a need to develop policy. Nevertheless, this package of laws is necessary and important, and it is not enough to invite the administration to rely on efficiency, clarity and simplicity.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22285	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22303	Mr President. High house! With the Agricultural Law Change Act 2003, we amend the Plant Protection Act, the Health and Food Safety Act, the Feed Act of 1999, the Quality Class Law and the Forest Law. Overall, I have to say that an agricultural law change law has proved itself to be a collective law in the past. This law with its various sub-points is also the right way, we do not manage here, but represent a clear and clear point for point and change the laws I have just referred to. With the Plant Protection Act, we want to create new rules for the import of plants and plant products from third countries necessary for the implementation of a relevant EU directive. Above all, we want to enable better cooperation between the plant protection services and the customs authorities. We place local companies on the export of goods in wood packaging – this concerns the Palettes, boxes, the entire storage material – with establishments of other Member States. This is also an essential prerequisite for equality of competition in the agricultural sector. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The amendment of the Health and Food Safety Act is essentially about administrative simplification. The aim is to ensure clear and uniform design, to concentrate the tariffs currently regulated by several federal laws on agricultural resources and thus to facilitate administrative simplification. The Feed Act is a further step towards optimising food safety, as well as administrative simplification and cost savings by taking over all tasks in the feed sector by the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety. Ladies and gentlemen! The Quality Class Law deals with legal adjustments to import and export control. In the Forest Act, we implement EU directives on the one hand, and on the other hand, editorial changes made in the forest law novels last year, i.e. 2002, are being adapted. This is therefore a total agricultural law amendment law, which will bring with it EU adjustments on the one hand and clear administrative simplification steps on the other.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22360	Thank you many times, Minister of State, for the briefness of the speech. Next word: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22382	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! In principle, the various measures taken by these collectors are factually justified and therefore also welcome. This applies both to the new provisions on the import of plants and plant products from third countries, which actually implements an EU directive, and to the adaptation of the rules on the export of goods to wood packaging. Thus, domestic holdings are treated as those of other EU Member States. This also applies to administrative simplifications, such as the harmonisation of tariffs for agricultural equipment, the taking over of all tasks in the feed sector by the Austrian Agency for Health and Nursing Safety and the legal adjustment in relation to import and export control carried out in the Quality Class Act. All of this is to be welcomed in principle, and that is why we will also agree, Mr Scheuch. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, despite all of this, the instrument of collecting society is in itself problematic in terms of democracy policy and also in parliamentary terms. We also discussed this on the part of the SPÖ in committee. There is always the risk that the individual provisions will not be sufficiently discussed and that a differentiated opinion will not be possible or will fail. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: But in committee you were more positive than in plenary!]] We Socialists are, in these days – you have to understand, Mr Scheuch – understandably a little skeptical after the debate of the Budgetary Accompaniment Act, when the government parties present large collectives for the vote. A burned kid just shoots the fire. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has also been mentioned that almost all reports will be completed in the Committee. I would just like to take a very brief look at the wild damage report, which unfortunately is not discussed in plenary, but which contains a number of very striking statements. There has been no improvement in conjugation, nor in damage to the skin since 2000. – On the contrary: There was even a deterioration in the bite. Two thirds of our forests are damaged by bitumen, and almost a quarter of all the wooded rods are affected by shell damage. The reasons mentioned in the report are definitely worth mentioning. I think it would be good for everyone to listen to these reasons. The following reasons are given: Mistakes in wild feeding, one-sided hunting industry, intensive forest pastures, anxiety and displacement of the wild by tourism. I believe that all these reasons are in the field of human action and also in human responsibility. And in the end, there is also political responsibility for these. I know, Mr Pröll, and also Mr Scheuch, that you have already tried to object to the committee. They have accused us, the opposition, of dramatizing the results of the report. It must be said, however, that this is really not the best place. I don't think you're gonna want to dispute that either. I would very much like the Members of the Government parties to take a critical look at their work and not always praise everything over the green clover. Then improvements could be made in many areas, for you can learn from mistakes if you want.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22430	Mr Witteier, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Wittauer. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22449	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, we know each other, which is why it is understandable to me at a later hour that words or names can be confused from time to time. I would like to focus a little on the real issue, since it seems that we are not talking about the Agricultural Law Change Act 2003 but about many other issues. We had these different reports in the Committee, and there was a consistent view that these reports are good and all parties are represented in these reports. I don't understand that your information is so bad that not everyone knows. Everyone has a copy, and I believe that the public, because the report is public, is aware of it. So you don't always have to use plenary sessions to demand everything you can. We talked about it, we also negotiated the report and took note of it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Disgustingly removed!]] Mr Kummerer, you too are suffering from the interception syndrome. It seems to me that everything else is no longer important to you. I would like to say once again to the liberal position: We have been in the past for airspace surveillance, and of course we are in favour of the acquisition of an efficient device for the federal army. In contrast to the Social Democrats, we go a line, while the Social Democrats have changed their views since the purchase of Dragons, finally suffer from disbelief and even use this subject in a reform of agricultural law to make themselves important. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer]] It must be that way. But probably Mr Kummerer has been sent here about agriculture... I don't know. Do you have a Schreberg species? What do you have, anyway? – That fits well, because that is, I believe, your only access to agriculture. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: No! ...!]] That is why I am going to try, but I am going to address the 2003 Agricultural Law Change Act so that we can really talk about this issue again. The provisions concerning imports of plants and plant products from third countries are the implementation of an EU Directive. I think we should implement these too. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There is a level playing field for wood packaging and goods when exporting, i.e. in line with the other Member States. This concerns in particular pallets, boxes and materials made of wood. This is also important, of course, because we do not want the distortion of competition for our... – Please, applause is quite good. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: Grillisch: In between applause!]] This creates the same conditions for all. The harmonisation of the provisions currently laid down in several federal laws on agricultural resources is also being implemented. The aim was always to avoid distortions of competition. This objective has been implemented with this harmonisation. This has also made it possible to simplify the administration. I mean, administrative simplification was always our goal and should always be our goal. The Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety will carry out all tasks in the field of feed. This will ultimately achieve a better quality of food for the consumer. A legal adjustment to the Quality Class Law regarding import and export in the feed sector will ensure greater security in the future. Effective control is good for our consumers and, of course, for our farmers. We liberals therefore agree with this Agricultural Law Change Act. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to agree with the opposition. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since this topic is particularly important to us, we wish... – Of course, it fits well if you agree. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pepper.]] Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22582	The amendment tabled by Mr Wittauer, Mr Grillitsch, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. However, we now only have two more speakers, Mr Ing. Winkler with 2 minutes and Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber with 4 minutes speaking time. My question is whether we wish you had a little more time to vote. I'm mainly asking the opposition. – That doesn't have to be, so I'm fine. The application is thus approved and is to vote. I ask Mr Ing. Winkler to the speaker's desk. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22606	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In two minutes I will try to limit myself to the Forestry Act under the Agro-Law Change Act. First of all, I should like to say that the revision of the Forest Act of 1975 in 2002 has brought about significant administrative simplifications, including redundancies and other administrative issues or areas of training. In this context, I should like to say: Since Mr Pirklhuber's side here has indicated that the approval and administrative simplification cannot be accepted, I do not fully understand that. It is precisely because the rural area can also be supported in such a way as to make pasture exemptions, corresponding wild meadows, appropriate land cleanings and the like more actually easier to carry out. The rural area is not to grow through forest, but also in the cultural landscape. I think it's much more important to manage the forest. It is also important – this is to be taken into account in this amendment – to ensure that education and training is in line with the high standard of Austria, and that professionals are also assured in this respect for the future. As far as the damage to the wild is concerned, let me say briefly that we have very much in control of the damage to the peels where there is a specialist staff, and also This is the first time that we have been able to take a step forward in this As far as the damage to cracks is concerned, it is true that there are also external influences, which in part cannot be influenced by professionals. Otherwise, it is about correcting and eliminating editorial errors. That is why I am seeking the approval of this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22649	The last speaker was Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. 4 minutes speaking time. - Just one minute. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: (on the way to the speaker's desk) A minute!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22688	High house! I will soon explain why our group must clearly say no to the request made by Mr Wittauer. It is, I think, incomprehensible to FPÖ itself, why it is making this request at all, because seven members are currently represented in the Supervisory Board, of which two are members of the Federal Ministry for Social Security and Generations. – This is the current state of affairs. In your application, consumer protection will only have one representative; the other representatives will be increased to three members of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and three members of the Federal Ministry of Health and Women. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is clearly a shift in power to the side of the ÖVP, and if that is so, then I would say that is definitely a bad deal you have entered there. In principle, I have to tell you the following: With this new amendment to the Food Safety Act, you have generally deleted the possibility of accessing the Consumer Protection Agency. At this level you should have been here, ladies and gentlemen – and not in this way as you did. We will certainly not give Greens our consent to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22726	No one is reporting on this. – Yes, Mr Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22759	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Unfortunately, I have to say that a practice that has been practised so far has unfortunately been started. There are amendments to a legislative matter which was unanimously adopted in the Committee two minutes before the second reading of the vote in Parliament. In addition, this amendment – and I agree with Mr Pirklhuber's statement – makes an absolute deterioration in the position of consumer protection in the field of food safety. If the colleagues of the Freedom Party believe that they are doing a good service to their Deputy Chancellor or to their Secretary of State, this is their case; but we are not responsible of the SPÖ, but of the population. Today, food safety has been discussed throughout the afternoon. I cannot see that with this amendment tabled two minutes before the vote, we should reduce consumer protection measures and also agree with them. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since, as has already been said, the Agro-Law Amendment Act has now been unanimously adopted in the Committee, a second reading amendment which we must reject has now been tabled and therefore the Agro-Law Amendment Act has been amended in a way that we can no longer agree to it, I would say that, unlike the voting behaviour of the Social Democratic Group in the Committee, we cannot vote in favour of the SPÖ here in plenary on the basis of this amendment to the whole Agro-Law-Law-Law-Law-Law-Law-Law.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22802	No one is really reporting about this now. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of the reporting is not required. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 157 of the Supplements. Mr Hizu, Members of the European Parliament have received a number of comments. Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, asked for a separate vote on Rule 1. Mr Grillitsch, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Sheuch and colleagues submitted an additional request concerning the Agricultural Law Change Act 2003 as amended by the Committee's report. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote, then on the supplementary proposal and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Clear majority!]] Deputies Grillitsch, Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch and colleagues have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a point 5 in Article 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen for this supplementary request, Grillitsch, Dipl.-Ing. It's a sign of it. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 23. Point report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (131 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Land and Forestry Law on the Service of the State – LLDG 1985 (159 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22842	We're now going to the 23rd grade. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hat for 4 minutes. I ask him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22867	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are a number of EU Directives on the protection of workers. These guidelines have been fully implemented in the area of the federal government by the Federal Employment Protection Act. The present draft law now adapts the provisions to agriculture and forestry teachers and thus achieves EU conformity. The increasing importance of education in the field of agriculture is also documented by this implementation of the safety and protection principle. The implementation of this protection system for the agricultural and forestry teachers is an essential element in the general improvement of working conditions and protection provisions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] During the training of pupils in the Austrian agricultural schools, it should also be clear to them that the facilities for increasing safety are given special attention. More than 12,000 pupils are currently attending agricultural vocational and vocational schools. Thanks to the ever-increasing importance of the rural area and sustainability, the will for a comprehensive education in all areas of agriculture has prevailed in the rural population. For Lower Austria's agricultural schools, I can say that many activities have been set up in recent years. In 2002, for example, a new overall concept was presented in the responsibility of Landesrat Josef Plank. Its content was the forward-looking development of agriculture from the point of view of education, efficiency and attractiveness. On the one hand, it is about adapting the training profiles to the income rails of agriculture in the field of home economics by defining priority training – these are very interesting areas such as social services, tourism, eco-design and health and wellness – on the other hand, in the area of agriculture, in addition to the agricultural core topics such as in the areas of bioenergy, energy agriculture or municipal services. In Lower Austria, the 20 agricultural schools have seen an increase in the number of pupils, and despite a reduction in the number of teachers, the quality of the schools has increased. and show the extended education offer – yes, it is also offered medium maturity. Ladies and gentlemen! The training of young farmers is currently experiencing an enormous boost in quality. More and more full-time and ancillary farms recognise the need for extensive agricultural training. The exemplary equipment of the agricultural vocational and specialist schools also has a role to play in all safety details. The continuous training of teachers for the functions as security professionals or confidants is, of course, part of the growing security need. In any case, a reduction in the number of accidents at work and occupational diseases and a reduction in the cost of health and accident should be expected. That is why this Federal Law on the Safety and Health of Agricultural and Forestry Teachers is very welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22928	Last speaker: Mr Wimmer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22946	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have seen an example of how it should not work during the last vote. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you don't deal with an opposition, that's undemocratic, that's unfair, that just doesn't belong! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You are obedient!]] Two minutes before the vote, we have tabled an amendment to which we could no longer go, is really undemocratic! There is a very common saying, which means: “By my honor” – Dear friends: With Ehr’, however, this procedure has nothing to do at all, and it’s really bad. [[Abg. Scheibner: Your teachings can save you, you can save yourself!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This government template is about a change to the Land and Forestry Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of Workers of the Land and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws on the Law on the Law of the Laws on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Laws on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the It is about the protection of agricultural and forestry teachers. I believe that this is important and so on, and we Social Democrats will vote in favour of this motion, unless you bring another amendment one minute before the vote. Let me now turn to the negotiations in the Committee which took place on Wednesday last week. Among other things, the report on the protection of the water has been presented. The Water Protection Report was presented to Parliament for the last time, and it was, as it were, carried to the grave last Wednesday. This was a day of mourning for Austrian environmental policy, and this is an ecological downturn that you as members of the government are responsible for. Unfortunately, the groundwater is not all right either. What does it look like in the nitrate area? What about athrazin in groundwater? It is very worrying that the thresholds for athrazin are increasing, although athrazin is no longer available in Austria, it must no longer be produced. But probably it can still be acquired somehow, and it is still applied in large quantities. Mr Federal Minister, more stringent controls will have to be carried out in the future. It can't work like this. In particular, the Water Protection Report has highlighted these shortcomings, but unfortunately they will no longer exist in the future. Groundwater rehabilitation areas have been identified for years, but there are no regulations to do so. Mr Federal Minister, there is also a need for action. They have to meet with the head of state in Upper Austria once, because without a regulation such groundwater restoration areas are of no importance. We need management restrictions, otherwise it won't work. Federal Minister! My colleague One of you has asked what interests you represent today, and you have replied that they represent the interests of all farmers, the large and the small, the farmers with large areas of management and the farmers with small farming areas. But I'm telling you: Of course, that's not true as you say! You are clearly on the side of the big farmers, and we always blame you for that. You have also shown this very clearly during the negotiations in Brussels. The press reports say – I quote – that: Agricultural reform: only one piece of work. Commissioner Fischler put it to the point: He said we could talk about compromises, but not bad compromises, which some agricultural representatives call for. - Quote. You can't say it any more clearly. It's true: That's the reality! He's right, of course, because the modulation will move you to the Sankt-Nimmerleins tag. We continue to insist on the old unfair funding system, as we know, and the funding millionaires have continued to prevail. [[Abg. Grillitsch: That was already on the agenda at 3 p.m.! We are now under the Landeslehrer Service Law!]] They make politics for the big ones, and the little ones stay on the track. This is not the way we want to go with Social Democrats!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23025	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word is not wanted by the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 131 of the supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to be a sign of approval. – Mrs Kuntzl and Mr Posch, you do not agree to this? [[Mr Kuntzl and Mr Mag. Posch is now also raised from their seats.]] This has now been decided unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is also unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 24. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (83 of the Supplements): Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Styria for the establishment and operation of a National Park Gesäuse (156 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23080	We're getting to the 24th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak was Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23104	Mr President. Minister! High house! This government template is about the establishment and operation of the Gesäuse National Park – a very encouraging state of affairs, which has already been decided unanimously in the Committee. Years of negotiations between the federal government, the country, the municipalities and the landowners have preceded this agreement, which was then concluded between the federal government and the state of Styria. Our then Minister Willi Molterer signed this contract in the autumn of the previous year, which basically opened the Gesäuse National Park, but of course the National Council has to approve this Article 15a Treaty. This Treaty regulates the overall expansion, the objective, the establishment and the tasks of a National Park administration and the financing. Ladies and gentlemen! The most important point in the negotiations was certainly the involvement of the landowners and the regional population. The establishment of national parks in Austria is quite a success story. We currently hold six national parks in eight federal states. That is, we have distributed almost all over Austria national parks, starting from the largest Hohe Tauern National Park, which was built in 1992, to the Gesäuse National Park, which was built in 2002. It is the most beautiful and ecologically valuable natural areas, which are divided into natural zone and conservation zone or, more simply, into core zones and peripheral zones. The function of a national park is precisely regulated. We adhere to the IUCN Directives of the World Conservation Union. This is about compliance with the Directives on protection category II. Category I protection is known to affect wild areas or nature forest reserves. Category II means that these are several main and secondary targets. The main objectives are the protected area, which is managed mainly for the protection of ecosystems and for recreational purposes. That means they need to be made publicly accessible. That is, the protection of ecosystems and recreational purposes are the priority objectives. Adequate but equally important are the objectives of scientific research, education, the protection of the wilderness and the protection of certain natural and cultural phenomena. Ladies and gentlemen! We in particular have always adhered to the three most important principles of the EIA. Point one is the voluntary consent of the landowners. Point two is the fair compensation for economic disadvantages. The third point is the above-mentioned compliance with international criteria. This has led to a success. In the past, the owners of the National Parks were more skeptical of their sceptical attitude, while today the trend is towards enlargement. This is a very wonderful development. Let me say once again: The involvement of the owners of the land was crucial! Today, these national parks are managed through management plans. This also concerns the conservation of the rural cultural landscape. In other words, it is about agricultural diversity, about the traditional alpine economy, about the grazing of agricultural land. Land around natural forests and – this is very important – also about hunting management, which is called wildlife management in a national park. This means that hunting is possible that the laying of the wild is absolutely necessary, but also a certain monitoring, an observation of the wild, must be done accordingly. We from the ÖVP stand to the national parks, but without a glass crash, that is, we are for a management involving the regional population and the land owners. This is the successful way that our Federal Minister Pröll wants to continue. National parks are therefore also a great opportunity for rural areas. Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the many property owners who have so far agreed to make available land, and who have so far managed their land in such a way that they could be safely integrated into the national parks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23175	The next speaker is Mr Faul. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23193	Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced period, I am allowed to take a short look. They all know the success story at the Austrian National Parks, and we hope that this success story will continue with the Gesäuse National Park. We know how important it is in times when tourism in Austria, especially summer tourism, “weaks”, offers to attract holiday in Austria and strengthen demand. That is why, Minister, we are not going to talk today about how difficult the negotiations have been that we have made this decision. We are also not talking about the appropriateness or inadequacy of compensation for the economic losses, but we are pleased that – Mr Auer has already said – we have been able to comply with category II protection. We are also pleased that the regional population and all nature conservation organisations have been involved in this decision and have contributed positively. We also welcome the long-term security of federal and country funding. We wish the management of the National Park a good hand. We will review the implementation of the agendas and the activities of this management in the future. Finally, I can wish the Gesäuse National Park a warm Styrian happiness.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23223	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Preferred speaking time: 3 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23242	Mr President. Valuable Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can fully agree with the statements made by my two previous speakers that the National Park idea is a very good one. In recent years and decades, he has gained much in value in Austria. I myself am at home on the edge of the Hohe Tauern National Park, so I know the National Park very well and I know how important it is for the preservation of the multi- the species of nature, but also for the touristic importance of this valley, of this region and hence of this country. We also have international recognition at the Hohe Tauern National Park – an additional milestone that has been reached with it – but we also have a problem in this National Park, and I would like to explain this briefly. In addition to all the areas addressed, the division between the demands of the property owners and some demands relating to hunting, there is a third issue that is very important here. There are a lot of farmers who have made an economic exemption in this national park. That is, they do not give up the management in the interests of the National Park idea. For this purpose, these farmers receive a fee, a financial compensation. But, unfortunately, two years ago, under a blue-black government – and I say this quite clearly here – a regulation was introduced in the Ministry of Finance, which taxed distributions from agricultural communities. Under this Regulation, it has been established that there is no taxation on and on its own for EU funding, but – and this is the springing point – it has been stated in a small by-catch that if you get it for something you do not do anything, you will be subject to a 25 percent tax. I believe that in this case the farmers and farmers are punished because, although they live the national thought and meet the requirements, they have to pay 25 per cent Kest. We will, with the help of our government partner and with the support of the opposition, I hope to do everything we can to fix this so that we can also give these farmers the full support in the future. To the Gesäuse National Park, I would like to say that we from the Liberal Group strongly support and agree with the establishment and operation of the Gesäuse National Park. I would like to join the wishes of my previous speaker and also wish a strong happiness and a good development!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23290	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. Speaking time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23308	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! High house! I think that there is also an important point in setting up a national park when it comes to remembering those who actually made it possible for the national park, and these were environmentalists and environmental organisations in the 1980s. The occasion was actually the construction of a power plant that was proposed by the Admont pen in the 1980s, the construction of a very large power plant, and on the other hand, resistance arose, and on the basis of this resistance, the entrance to the Gesäuse has been declared a natural monument, and that was actually the start of a long effort and ringing around a national park. For a long time there have been resistances on the part of the Freeman and the SPÖ, as I regret to say, against the establishment of this National Park. On the spot, for a long time to the population, such a thing as panic, I would like to say that it has been operated by keeping in mind what disadvantages a national park might have. Only at the end of the day did one go through to really welcome this national park. But there is still a lot to be lacking. One point is the following: The plaster mining on the Dörfelstein is not compatible with a national park, and this should also be put out of dispute. This is about soft tourism – and not about the reduction of raw materials. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The aim would also be to create a connection with Upper Austria between the Kalkalpen National Park and the Gesäuse National Park, to apply for this as a whole national park region, to apply internationally, and also to include the communities which are not yet involved and who would like to enter the National Park region. There is also a lack of educational institutions, there is a lack of research opportunities, there is a lack of financial resources from economic support, because the National Park is also an economic concept for this region. Above all, there is also a strong international application for all our national parks under a common roof mark. There is also no suitable National Park Centre. If you drive there and don't know that there is a national park there, you don't notice. I would like to take this hour, when we are pleased that we are building an additional national park in Austria, to say: Just because he's built, he's far from being a real jewel and not an economic factor for a long time. There is still a lot of work to be done, and I hope that the disputes that we as the Greens, as environmental organisations, have been with each other on this issue, belong to the past and that we are only going more forward and that the next step will be to attack the Kalkalpen-Gesäuse region National Park. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last point, addressed to the Styrian colleagues: The Styrian National Park Act for the establishment of the Gesäuse National Park is very bad. It is “irresistible” and it is difficult to improve something. It is really the worst in relation to other laws relating to the establishment of national parks in other federal states. Maybe you can get here once, too... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] No, no, no, This is “irresistible” because you have to ask each congregation if you want to expand. There's no other national park law. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Zweytick.]] You could start and change that, because it is about improving quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23381	The last speaker on this item is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23399	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In all the shorts required: In addition to the most important objective of nature conservation, the National Park also gives us the opportunity – and I am of the opinion of the colleague Glawischnig – to link and network various tourist attractions. It is located on the one side of the National Park the site of Admont, which is world-famous, and this has also made available according to land, and on the other hand – although not in the National Park, but on the eastern side – is the Erzberg, and thus we already have three relatively attractive tourist attractions with the National Park, which can be well linked for public work and for work towards internationality. This national park has an area of 12 500 hectares and has six municipalities. Rather, it is one of the smaller national parks, but certainly one of the most beautiful and ecologically valuable. The Gesäuse National Park can be the entry into a special form of tourism for this region, a model example of a sustainable development of a rural region. To conclude: It is time for me, as a regional representative of this constituency, to say thank you to the Austrian Federal Government, in particular to you, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, as a former minister, you have contributed very much to the realization of this national park; thank you to the Styrian state government and in advance thanks to the colleagues here in the High House, together with the invitation – this also applies to the Upper Austrians, Mr Murauer –: Look at this National Park, it's a special piece of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23439	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur did not make a final statement. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to give approval to the conclusion of the present agreement under Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act in 83 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. 25. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (43 of the Supplements): Convention establishing the International Organisation for Reef and Wine and Note (90 of Supplements) 26. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (122): Federal Law amending the 1999 Wine Act (158 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23488	We now come to the items 25 and 26 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Hellerer has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23512	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, the success of the Austrian wine industry is based on the work of the winegrowers and the good quality of the wines produced by the winegrowers. But above all, cooperation with the dealers, with the gastronomy, is important, because ultimately the most important partner of the winegrowers, of course, is the consumer. Its satisfaction is at the heart of the interest of the Austrian winegrower families. The basis for success, however, is a comprehensive legal basis which meets the requirements of modern winemaking. Today under these agenda items we have to find out about the establishment of the International Organisation for Vines and Wine. Hiebei is about a follow-up organisation of the International Office for Vine and Wine. This organization belongs to 45 member states from all over the world. For Austria, it is very important to be a member of this organisation, as the economic and consumer policy importance of Austrian winemaking requires. The main task of the organisation is to adopt resolutions which, of course, are not binding on the Member States, but which are taken into account in the case of wine-growing decisions and legislation. The main elements of the amendment to the Wine Act concern the transfer of certain functions of the authorities to the Bundeskelrei inspection, which does not prevent the participation of the countries. Furthermore, it is about setting up a wine database by the end of 2004. This collects all the data, especially those that are of course necessary for the administration of the wine. This will also achieve appropriate administrative simplification. This means that the winners will also be given the opportunity to feed the legal notices via the Internet into this database, and that, in particular, a very rapid reference of information for those authorities that have access to it is possible and the transmission of files can be eliminated. By adapting to EU rules, the principle of ban on wine labels falls. This means that in the future it will also be possible to include additional information on the labels in addition to the expressly approved designations: Information describing the properties of the wine and which must be mainly characteristics that this wine really possesses. In order to protect consumers from abuse accordingly, the ban on misleading will become more important in the law against unfair competition. It is also about the construction of a central wine-treatment directory. Manufacturers and distributors of wine treatment products will in future be obliged to report the funds to the authorities. Above all, those funds already available on the market, but not yet reported, must be included in this list. Finally, perhaps some information for those interested in wine. The foliage in the vineyards is in full swing. That is to say, the grape zone is freed from excess foliage, so that the air is good for it and the sun can shine the grapes. We are in vegetation about 14 days ahead of the long-term average. So far, it has been a good wine year – and we hope that the climatic conditions and weather conditions will also allow a good harvest success.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23558	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23576	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We are dealing with the most important secondary issue in Austria, namely the Wine Act. [[Abg. Wattaul: You're right!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] – Mr Zweytick, for you, it is not a matter of incident, but for us it is a pleasant side matter to enjoy the Austrian grape juice, the refined grape juice. Ladies and gentlemen! This wine law will be approved by us – thank you! . - above all because it implemented measures which we had already introduced in the negotiations on the wine law in 1999, but which were not to be implemented at the time, but also because of the fact that the consumer will be better informed in the future because of the new possibilities for labelling and also the list of wine treatment products. [[Demonstratetive applause by ODP MPs]] By the way, Mrs Hellerer, I can only agree with your remarks. I would also like to thank you for providing us with a small trip to the winery. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! In the negotiations on the wine law in 1999, the then Member of the National Council, Rudolf Schwarzböck, and I have found that there are some regulations in force at European level but have not yet been implemented in Austria. In part, this implementation has taken place in the meantime, Mr Federal Minister, but some regulations are still missing. I would ask you to implement these remaining regulations quickly so that the 1999 wine law can also give a round picture in the future and that all the regulations at European level will also be in force in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a comment on the situation as a whole. We have completed many reports in the Committee, including the Green Report, which also has to do with wine and wine law. Unfortunately, he was finished in committee. I very much regret this because the Green Report is actually the “Praybook”, the “Bibel” of the Austrian agricultural policy. Perhaps it would be possible, Mr Federal Minister – I am convinced that you too would support this – for the Green Report to be discussed here in plenary, discussed and voted here in plenary. Perhaps you can influence the ÖVP club in this sense. Perhaps you can have a serious, urgent discussion with your predecessor, the current clubman Willi Molterer, so that in the future we will also be able to consult the Green Report here in the house – and not just end up in the committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23632	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Cheers to speak. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23650	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The changes in the Wine Act are an important basis for the Austrian wine farmers. I believe that these are three principles on which we should build. There are, first of all, legal principles that we are willing to change. We have heard all of this about the new rules on the labelling of wine treatment products, administrative simplifications. The second is organizational principles that we need to create. The new International Organisation, this platform, will give the winners the opportunity to take advantage of marketing opportunities, exchange of experience and the like. The third possibility we have is that we all as consumers support the wine farmers. In this sense I will not take advantage of my speaking time and would rather invite you all to drink a good glass of wine today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23689	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. 3 minutes speaking time; Your group has 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23708	In order not to miss the culinary part of this evening, I would like to begin by saying first of all that, of course, I would like to express our support for Mr Gradwelt's suggestion, namely that the Green Report will be discussed here in plenary. This is very necessary. Mr Federal Minister, I would also like to ask you and the colleagues from the ÖVP to stand up for this. Secondly, We support these templates because they bring more quality assurance to the farmers on the one hand, but also to the Austrian consumers on the other. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] We also support the Convention establishing the International Organisation for Vines and Wine, because this institution is also an observer at the FAO, is already working expertly in the Codex Alimentarius and is expected to be active at the WTO in the future. This is very welcome from the European point of view. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23744	The last speaker is the wine maker and MP Johannes Zweytick. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23765	Mr President. Federal Minister! The wine law is not only the most important by-product, but probably the most beautiful item on today's agenda. At the end of this evening – I am also allowed to speak as the latter – I am pleased that in Austria the wine of Austria is a sign for our country. Ours Wine is recognized worldwide, it is a domestic product that is one of the best in the world, ladies and gentlemen! Our wine is an Austrian product – I would like to emphasize it again – and not something we bought or leased somewhere or had us in from somewhere, but the wine in Austria has tradition. This small country of Austria with its wine has become a world brand – and we can all be very proud of that. I am very happy that, after the wine scandal, such progress has been achieved in recent years. [[General condolences.]] My colleague Anna Höllerer has already said everything to the law. The most important thing about the establishment of this International Organisation is, of course, to have an important voice in the WTO, a right of participation, an assessment process to be able to represent the interests of the small and medium-sized European but especially Austrian wine-growers – in the sense of consumers, in the sense of wine-growers and the production of best quality and against industry. There is also an industrial movement throughout the WTO, and on the other hand we keep our trust. My speaking time is really very short. There would still be some important things to say about wine, but it actually is unnecessary. Mrs. Glavischnig! There are two months of session break ahead, and you will have plenty of opportunities to enjoy local delicacies from the Kamptal to the Weinviertel, over the Neusiedler space to the South and West Styria. [[Abg. Neudeck: What's in Vienna?]] Other people spend a fortune to roam around the world between Australia and Chile because they believe they will find the world’s best wine there. - We've got him on the doorstep! [[General condolences.]] I'm appealing to you: Take the time, enjoy with the necessary peace and must these noble drops! They inspire not only the body, but also the mind, and this does us all very well. At the end of such a debate, it is obvious that I thank our wine farmers on behalf of my person and everyone here in the plenary. I have allowed myself to bring each one a bottle of deliciousness to our Minister of State and, of course, to the President of the House, including that. Finally, I say only three words: In vino veritas!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23836	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreement establishing the International Organisation for Vines and Wine and Note 43 of the Supplements to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitution that the embodiment of the English and Spanish versions of the State Treaty must be carried out by means of public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law amending the wine law, together with the title and receipt in 122 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading to give an indication of this. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23912	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were tabled 175/A to 182/A. Questions 586/J to 632/J have also been raised. Finally, a question by Members of Parliament has been put to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 9. July 2003 at 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. I shall also inform you that the Presidential Conference will be convened at 1 p.m. tomorrow. The sitting is closed.
