ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e3767	The meeting was opened. I very much welcome you all to the House! The Official Protocols of the 10th and 11ths Meeting of 26. In March 2003, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, Mrs Sburny has been reported. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e3801	The messages from the Federal Electoral Authority have arrived that the MEPs MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic, Mag. Johanna Mikl- Leitner as well as Dr. Ernst Strassrauf have renounced their mandates. Instead of the Members of the European Parliament. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic became deputies Mag. Brigid Weinzinger, instead of Mag. Johanna Mikl-Leiter of Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllsowie, instead of Deputies Dr. Ernst Strassard, Deputies Johann Ledolterin appointed the National Council. Deputies of Dipl.-Ing. In the meantime, Josef Pröllhat waived his mandate; in his place, Mr Martin Preinederin was appointed to the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the scribe, the new ambassadors will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the author, Mr Jakob Auer, to read the vow formula and to call for the name.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e3859	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e3883	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst, wish them a good work and God's blessing. [[General condolences.]] Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chanzler have expressed their intention to make statements on the subject of pension insurance reform. I also announce that there is a request by five Members on these statements in accordance with § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a joint debate. These statements and the subsequent debate will be followed by the following: It's an hour's time. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e3926	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject ‘Familiesland Österreich’ First of all, Mrs Rosenkranz is speaking. Speech time: 10 minutes. – I ask you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e3950	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Families are a central concern of the FPÖ, and we have made this clear by focusing on it in the course of our previous government participation; for example, we have the childcare allowance – a very important family policy milestone! ................................................................................................................................................................................. I can also remember that, when we first debated this, the opinion generally prevails: This might not be so bad at all, but at least it would be unfinancingable. We have put this child care money into reality and today we can say with great satisfaction that it is the citizens of our country with great goodwill – and, of course, we have also adopted it. “family” is a term that is characterized by great emotion; it is likely to apply to all parties and in many opinions, but it is interpreted very differently. For us, the Freeman family is indeed the basis of the state – and to present it first in a pragmatic-economic way: The family is mainly the basis of the social state. We are now experiencing this in the course of the pension reform. We have problems in this context, because the series of generations has come out of lot from their numerical value. The pension reform shows us that family policy is a very necessary prerequisite for any social policy. To the three-generation treaty: What has worked within the family for centuries and thousands of years, namely, that the middle generation provides for the older generation and – that is the point of leaping – attracts a young generation, which the social state has transferred to the higher, state level, and that is why we now experience that a central set of economics is true of every social burden resulting from the current national income. For this reason, it is very crucial for us liberals to hold back again and again: Family policy is not an expenditure policy and therefore cannot simply be deleted even in times when the budget is scarce, but family policy is an investment policy. Therefore, it is also high to the previous Federal Government that, although the pressure to save and the need for budget consolidation were there, it could still be invested in families with the greatest amount of investment. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The economic basis of the state is, in any case, a reasonable family policy – and that decides whether we can continue to live safely in our material conditions. But family and family policy is much more, of course, because: Whether a reasonable family policy leads to success, it also decides how we live. Man is dependent on living among his likeness; he will only become man through his contact with his likeness. I think the term “son politicon” is to a large extent understood: If man is not introduced into the human culture, language and so on through his likeness, then the cruel fate of a Caspar Hauser threatens him. In this respect, the family – and this makes it so important for us – is also the first cultural carrier. We may already be somewhat different from the political groups: For us, the family is the organization, the unity, in which children, especially in the early years, can best thrive. Of course, there are also problem-affected families, and of course it can be better in such a case that a child may be taken out of the family. Nevertheless: The family, the well-functioning family as an ideal – and as an ideal it has it in itself that you can only approach it – and bad families, troubled families, do not contradict this principle as ideal that it is the best way for children to grow up. This sentence is also true: Children are our most important capital! - or vice versa: Without children, there is simply no future at all! The best conditions can therefore be just right for us. In this respect, it is also very important – in contrast to others perhaps – to enable parents to care for their children themselves, especially in the early years of the children. It is the parents who bear the responsibility and who, above all, experience suffering when something has gone wrong. A still so committed nurse, crib caretaker, teacher will not break his head that way, will not show the same personal concern and therefore the same commitment as it is – so it is usually the case – his own parents. Whoever then has the consequence to answer and, in the worst case, to suffer, must also be given the possibility that, without resisting material obstacles, he can at least take care of his children himself in the early years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this respect, we are also in line with all the latest research results. Many pediatricians tell us – and prove it – that for very small children it means an enormous effort in life energy to prevail in groups with equal ages, and that the ideal condition, group suitability, is not an arbitrary norm, but that the kindergarten age of three years we have is a reasonable age, but that a child with below age is best taken up in the family. A Parliament is also here to say things that everyone does not necessarily like to hear, and that is why – you may know – it should at least consider: In the Federal Republic of Germany, the PISA study has shown a clear link between the services provided and the low density of crimps. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] This means that the conditions for very small children – even for their success later – in the family are much better than that in larger units. That's what we should all consider! We don't want to majorize anyone, we don't want to dictate anything. I am personally or – and I can speak for my group as well – we believe that it is beneficial for very small children to have a caregiver for themselves. I didn't want to be personal now, but I can tell you the following: For 15 years I was exclusively at home, and I have felt that this task was as demanding and demanding as I am here to stand before you and argue. Those who want to train their children wisely must also take their minds together, must prove a great deal of discipline, have a challenging work to do. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Working women do the same!]] This work is just as challenging, it is at least as important as it is to stand and argue here in Parliament. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We do not want to majorize anyone, we want to leave it to everyone, but – and this is our greatest principle – this freedom of choice must also be guaranteed by the fact that it does not bring great material disadvantages. Of course, you of the left half of the empire are right: Women who have a part of their life of child rearing or, almost anachronistically, are quite devoted to them have serious disadvantages to bear. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Ask what disadvantages work women have!]] In our view, however, this must not lead to saying: We need to “make ” them the child - rearing of the neck. It is rather a question of honoring the work done by women in the family, which they do in behalf of their children and thus in favour of the development of our society. That is why I am glad that in the course of the post-negotiations to the Government's draft on pension reform, the position of mothers and the position of mothers – not only mothers, but above all mothers – has greatly improved which their children raise themselves. Child rearing times are now better accounted for, and above all, the calculation period for those who have dedicated their time to child rearing is reduced. This is, after all, a great success, for which I would also like to thank the liberal team that has negotiated it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Family is the basis of the state. That's something we all have to consider. We interpret it a little differently, but I can tell you that in principle we should get together again and again. I would like to make one more request to you, especially to the female Members of the left half of the Reich: Stop playing the rights of women against child welfare! That's something we all don't do well! I experience over and over again that attempts are being made to drive a cone into the most important unit that exists, which even exists when many others have already lost, as we now experience in the war in Iraq: in the unity between mother and child. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Who's doing that?]] It is the most important unit that can exist because it is really a very close unity. Stop relativizing the unity between mother and children due to ideological scoops! [[Abg. May. Prammer: Who is doing this at the speaker's desk right now?]] I think that is a matter of concern, and we will certainly never be at our disposal for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4097	Mr Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations, Vice-chanc Mag, spoke on a preliminary opinion. Chief. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4118	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! “The fate of the state depends on the condition of the families.” What the Swiss theologian and literary historian Alexandre Rodolphe Vinet already about the turn of the 18th to the 19th century ==References====External links==* Official website Because we know how important the state and well-being of the families in this country are and have been, it is our primary concern to work permanently on improving the framework conditions for our families. For us, family means social cohesion of all generations, of all generations in an association: whether it be the child, whether the woman, or the man, or the older generation. Family means protection and social security of all generations. Responsible family policy therefore covers all areas of life: from child care money, the social policy milestone of the previous Federal Government, to the safeguarding of jobs in world-politically difficult times, to the framework conditions for caring for older people, the care hospice. Over the past three years, we have put in place many measures that give families the social status they deserve. Which of the many measures can you wonderfully see that Austria is really the world’s peak in family benefits? – This is the measure of childcare allowance. It is enough for me to confirm that we have gone the right way – and will continue to go bravely – despite the many unscrupulous calls that we have repeatedly reaped from some of the parties represented here in the House. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Currently, about 80,000 mothers and fathers receive the childcare allowance. While in October 1999, 1 353 fathers were in Karenz, the proportion of these fathers' groups increased to at least 2 286 in October 2002. However, there is hardly any better confirmation of the improved framework conditions than the 3.6% increase in birth in 2002: in the case of equal employment for women and the better situation of women in terms of unemployment. We have set ourselves the goal of not leaving it alone in this success: We will continue to expand the Austrian family country! There is a lot of additional family benefits that have improved even today from the past: family allowances, the amount of children's allowance, home travel aid, the free school books, the payment of the multi-children's allowance. The families in later years should also receive this in their favor. Above all, the extension of child money to multiple births, which we have adopted in the Council of Ministers, is proof that we are not satisfied with the person we achieved, but are constantly working on improvements – if it is budgetaryly and sustainablely possible. With 1. In January 2004, parents with multiple births will also receive the financial freedom to decide, which has already been secured with the child care allowance for single births. If the child care allowance takes the biggest financial obstacle of a family, pension grounds and health insurance are associated with the further payment of compensation, this means that this important time for children is finally approaching the importance of a job. The increases in the pension package, which we negotiated last Sunday as an improvement to the government's draft, which was under review, are an important sign that we will give women with family benefits a high priority in society in the future and will make women much better in this respect. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As has already been said, child care benefits also have an impact on pension insurance, because for the first time, up to 18 months of child care benefits are counted as real contribution periods. To this end, our Secretary of State is planning to extend these times to 24 months. This is an improvement for all women and also serves their protection in old age. That's exactly where we see: Family policy is work on and with all generations. Only if the present generation makes the future secure will it be possible for today's youth to find a social network tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. The task of this Federal Government is to deal with the existing financial resources carefully and to distribute them fairly. In the face of a half - full “supply pot ” one has inherited, one can only say: The family owner has to ensure that the family members also find the fair share of the soup in their bowl to be filled. [[Call the Greens:Suppenkaspar!]] This is the task and responsibility that this Federal Government and all of us here in Parliament have. This is the premise that we have for our country, because one based on the generation agreement Social system is only maintained by families and no one else. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is about the vital question of how much freedom of choice women, men, young people and seniors actually have in their life-forms today, about how the Austrian social network is equipped. We can point to unique performance in the European comparison: Austria is a family country of the model class. We have created compatibility between work and family. We extend the child's allowance to multiple births. We create an independent pension scheme for women. We anchor the children's rights in the Constitution. We took measures against violence in the media. We're going to carry on with the disabled billions. We, all four parties, are developing a law of equality for the disabled. We link up a package of measures for older workers. We lower the taxes on the 1st. January 2004 in a first stage and will decide on the largest tax reform in the history of the Second Republic in this legislative period. We present to the House a pension insurance package so that all future generations can also build on our social Austria, and we will also fully recognise and develop the achievements of the generation of war building, which is in retirement today. And: We're saving the politicians. Finally, all four parliamentary parties entered the debate in order to achieve what my group considered necessary in 1995 to reduce political privileges in relation to pensions and to harmonise the political pension system. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We create generation solidarity and are not for a class struggle on the street, ladies and gentlemen! We create social peace for the future. We prevent poverty. Even the worst critics of the childcare allowance have attested to this poverty prevention function. Social policy will ensure social peace in this country. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the speaking time is not enough to be able to describe the dimensions of the Austrian family, social and generation policy more intensively. I have only given a brief extract of what has become reality in our country through the work of the last three years and what we are planning in the next few years. We confess that the family is the most important germ cell of society, and we also confess that in this respect we are shaping our policy for the benefit of Austria, for the benefit of social peace, for the benefit of our families.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4181	Mrs Steibl has now spoken. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current hour must not exceed 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4199	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! The government parties ÖVP and FPÖ with Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel have made Austria the most family-friendly country in Europe over the past two years. I mention here only milestones such as the childcare allowance for all, with 18 months pensionable, another 30 months pensionable and the right to unemployment benefit after the Karenz period with the success of a birth increase of 2.1 percent in 2002. I would also like to say at this point that there has been a 0.8% drop in birth rate at EU level. It is also gratifying that the number of men referring to child benefits has increased to the double. Father's care is particularly important to us by the ÖVP. However, I would also like to say a number of other positive points: While in 2002 there were still 5,467 mothers and fathers in Karenz, in October 2002 it was 16 125. I now ask the opposition, especially the SPÖ colleagues, where, on the basis of the childcare allowance, women's employment has fallen if almost doubling has taken place in this area. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Prammer and Mag. Worm.]] I believe – and we have discussed this very often in this House – that what we have decided does not like the opposition because it had no better proposals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: We have better suggestions!]] – The Greens also have no further proposals! The success is shown by how strongly this is assumed: Never before have so many mothers and fathers used child care money and have again entered the profession. We are now at a rate of 60 percent for women's work and we want to increase this figure to 65 percent on the part of the government parties. Given that you're saying this isn't a good thing?- Oh, my God! There you are on the wood road! The government – especially the ÖVP – will also do everything possible to become, as Chancellor Schüssel always says, not only the most family-friendly country in Europe, but also the most family-friendly country in the world. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to be able to reconcile work and family even better, and this includes promoting a family-friendly working world, of course with flexible working hours, also tailored to the needs of employees, as well as extending the opening hours of kindergartens – we also know that much motivation is needed among kindergarten holders – and also the expansion of facilities to support during school-free times. In addition, of course, there will also be an evaluation of the childcare allowance – which has been requested – and after that we will continue to negotiate. Where improvements, improvements are necessary, we will also make them in the sense of our families. Ladies and gentlemen! 2004 is the International Year of the Family. With the competent Federal Minister Herbert Haupt, with the State Secretary Maria Rauch-Kallat and Ursula Haubnersowie, German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel will be working in ten themes – for the benefit of the families in Austria, for the benefit of the children in Austria! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] I would also like to mention at this point that the Family People's Desire from the year 1999 has been implemented to one point. Even the reintroduction of home travel aid for students was enforced. Only the gear payment is open. I wonder – and I still remember the SPÖ's family spokesperson, Mr Mertel, who called this popular desire a "bow people's desire" – which has not been done there. Summary: Our objective is a society in which, as far as possible, all citizens take responsibility for themselves, for others and for the common good in various forms. Our goal is freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4263	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4281	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The “learned Austrian” knows from the experience of the last three to three and a half years that there, where you say you will set a focus, maximum caution is appropriate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] So: They will focus on family policy. – Dear ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Family policy is much more than the question of child money. That's why I'm saying: Let's talk about what you're not talking about today. Let's talk about what is really moving families in Austria today! Let's talk about what the families in Austria are really worried about today! If we are talking about what is not a subject for you, much worse, we are talking about what you seem to be not even considering when you are designing your so-called reforms! Let's talk about the fact that today's families in Austria are increasingly concerned that life is increasingly difficult to plan, that in the families in Austria more and more the feeling of being able to rely on nothing more today in the planning of life, that the feeling is becoming more and more widespread that from today to tomorrow, surprisingly essential foundations for life planning will be thrown over the pile! Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, let us talk about what pension reform you are proposing! They submit a pension reform, in which women are indeed punished for continuing to spend much more time on childcare compared to the men. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] After weeks of pressure, after a public yell, you have now prepared to announce further improvements. We have not yet learned anything about these improvements from the speech of the responsible Minister for Social Affairs; not a word of improvement, of improvements for women in the context of the pension reform, still not! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Already decided! Haven't you had time to read after?]] We are also very curious about what improvements should be made, where women's lawyers, namely women's ministers and women's women, are recommended to marry wealthy men, so that the men, who are now in the statutory pension insurance system, can pay reductions in their pension of 20 per cent or 30 per cent, in order to ensure that women will then have a right to a pension from which they can live at some point. But how many women in Austria already have wealthy men, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the government?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let's talk about what after your pension reform, life will look like in an average Austrian pensioner's budget! – I am not talking about people who have to live on minimum pensions. Today's average pensions range from 760 € for women and 1 400 € for men. These will be 20 to 30 percent lower according to your reform plans. [[Federal Minister for Smoking: Wrong!]] As I said, the average, not the lowest! Read calculations, read newspapers, then you'll see that! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Großruck: In the trade union information sheet it stands inside!]] These people take away a lot of money, ladies and gentlemen! Please answer us the question: How should pensioners compete with an average pension in that country in future? Look For example, you're looking at the price of the apartment! The apartments are becoming increasingly expensive, not only the big ones but also the little ones in which most people live. The rents rise, the apartments become more expensive, the pensions are falling. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The rents won't be more expensive!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in what apartments will the old people in our country live in the next few years? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Why is waste, gas and water so expensive in Vienna?]] I don't even want to talk about the self-preservation you want to introduce. 20 percent for every doctor's visit, that's a lot of money. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who says that? Where's that? Are these your fairy tales again?]] This will devour a large part of the income especially for the elderly, who are increasingly in need of medical treatment. Finally, I would just like to ask you: Try a few minutes to keep in mind the real life situation of the people in our country, the families in our country, when you design your reforms! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4429	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Dr. Bleckmann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4448	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let's talk about it! Let us talk about the fact that the SPÖ has treated the families for decades in a stepmotherly way that you have managed to reduce the birth rate! - You laugh! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] You have laughed well, you have managed that the Austrian families have decided not to have more children. You managed that today it is no longer attractive to have children. – In the meantime, but in the time you were in the government, you have failed to take timely measures to secure the pensions. Let's talk about the fact that we've known for 20 years that the population pyramid is changing, that we're going to have few young people working, but many pensioners will have. For 20 years we all know, all politicians know that this system will develop in this way. You didn't mind! They have only worked around the system, have not implemented long-term, sustainable reforms. Let's talk about what you missed! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let's talk about the fact that even your party president Gusenbauer admits that the current system has injustices in it. Yes, why didn't you change it? It is your system that contains injustices that you have created. Let us talk about the reality that we have today is the result of your policy! Let us talk about the reality of how families have been treated for decades! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Let us also talk about what this pension reform, this pension reform, will bring! We want pensions to be secure in the long term – what you have not managed to do: to provide a future for young people, children, families. Let's talk about compliance with the generation agreement! You also know that it will not be possible that so few workers will receive so many pensioners. The system needs to be changed to that end, and there is a need to take responsibility and confess to it. You missed that, because you treated the families stepmotherly – and also the women! Let's talk about what happened to women. They have not been able to charge child rearing periods for child care periods on grounds of retirement. In the first year in which we have been free in the government, we have managed to count child rearing times on pension grounds. [[Abg. May. Prammer: 30 years...!]] You didn't do it in 30 years, right, Mrs. Prammer! You didn't make it in 30 years, just promised, but you didn't make it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We now increase the entitlement to claim in the child education periods from 18 to 24 months, on grounds of retirement. We are now bringing improvements to the calculation period. Per child – and that strengthens the families! – women are granted three years during the calculation period. Did you know? You do not want to know, these are real improvements for women! That is what we have brought into this reform package, and in my view these are very important points for women and for families. Let's talk about childcare money too! Let's talk about it! This is a milestone in family policy, which we have brought into this government, implemented and enforced. If we look at what the respondents say about child care – the results were extremely positive – then we can say: 64 percent say that the new regulation is better than the old one. Because you always say that we want to bring the women to the herd, I want to meet you: 60 percent say that family and work are well compatible through child care. We have promised that we will also make improvements in child care money for the multiple births. We have already implemented it in the previous Council of Ministers. Because we promised in the election campaign that we would put the multiple births better, get from 1. January 2004 the parents of Mehrlingen in addition to the €436 per child again €218 for the twin births. That's how we make freedom policy: We promise before the elections that we will make improvements in the case of multiple births – and keep it after the elections. That's the difference: We liberals want to strengthen the families in Austria, you have weakened the families! We want to secure the pensions, you're just insecure!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4536	Mr Mandak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4555	Mr President. High house! Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you have scattered more incense in your statements than it was in the Church all Easter night. I would like to congratulate you on this. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, this incense unfortunately has little to do with reality, because it is not, of course, as tempting, as rosy and great as Mr Vice-Chancellor presented to the families. The increase in the number of divorces, the tendency to decrease in the number of births and the increasing poverty of single parents, and especially of families with more children, should give you clear signals of this. Your answer is the childcare allowance. An evaluation of the childcare allowance has already been requested. This one is already there, you just have to read it! This Wifo study clearly shows something that is certainly positive: that women have better basic financial security during the period of child care. What happens after that, however, remains open. Then she gets back into the poverty trap. But what can also be read from this Wifo study is the fact that women, especially young women and women who are not well-trained, are staying with children for much longer and therefore have a worse chance of entry into work. It also turns out – and the statement of you from the past has not voted – that fewer fathers stay with the child within the first 27 months of their child. In other words, you have not achieved that family work will be matter of fathers and mothers, but through the childcare allowance you will achieve that family care, childcare will be even more task and cause of women. This is a tendency that we reject! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You always like to talk about freedom of choice. But it is simply an eye-catching, what you are doing, because if I can choose, I must also have an alternative, and alternatives are currently available in many regions, not in many communities. I don't know where you have your eyes when you say that women today actually have freedom of choice. Many are left with nothing but staying at home with the children because there is no good child care. [[Federal Minister for Smoking: So please!]] [[Call: Where do you live?]] Where I live? – I come from Vorarlberg, ladies and gentlemen. There you have no choice at all because the facilities are not there. There you can ask Minister Gehrer, she will confirm that this is so. This cannot even deny the ÖVP in Vorarlberg. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They not only make false promises about freedom of choice, but they simply leave the women in the rain. They constantly praise the family work that women do. But where, please, is the self-employed pension for every woman in Austria? Where is she? – There is no such thing as this! In our basic security, we Greens demand an independent pension for everyone and everyone in Austria. We're worried about that. That's a big manko you haven't removed until today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now put one more on it: Now you are making this pension reform, punishing women length times wide, women like me, for example. [[Abg. Steibl: This is fear-making!]] I spent twelve years with my children at home. I pay the price with a lower pension. This is your kind of family policy, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Family policy: yes!, family: yes!, but family not as the task of women, but as the task of women and men, family as one another of all who live in it. Family as a cohabitation of people who are independent and therefore can say yes to each other. There should no longer be these terrible dependencies, which you would like to maintain, so that everything remains with the old, and so that families do not crumble, but not because they work well, but because the women remain nothing but with their families to stay with their husbands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4651	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Scheucher-Pichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4669	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The term “learned Austrian” – which is written into the main book by Andrea Kuntzl – is actually contrary to me. I do not think that with these positions you represent the majority of the Austrian women. I am convinced that you are not doing this because Austrian women are women with feelings and commitment, who know very well how much time there is for children and who are interested in combining work and time for children. You're not on the right path! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The previous speakers from the Greens and the SPÖ have managed very well again today – they have been doing this for the long time and have always done so in recent years – to play out family policy, family interests against women's policies and interests. They are always trying to construct a contradiction and play out family-political interests against women's policies and interests. For me, this is a pitiful access. I don't think that's a real access either. I think this is a very worrying approach. This is, of course, also a question of ideology. The questions are as follows: How much does family and child rearing mean to us? What importance does family have for us? What attitude do we have towards family partnership? I can only say that, on the part of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we have always felt that family policy and women's policy are moving very strongly together and that family and women's policies ultimately also have a common denominator. I am also very glad that we succeeded – that is a fact – in this government, we are taking very quick steps to do so. The fact is, however, Mrs Kuntzl, that for decades you have had a lot of these measures, including in government responsibility, including in the family ministry. You just didn't do it. You didn't do it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let's talk about it! Why Have Don't you make sure that child care periods are pensionable? Why have you not taken all the measures we have taken in recent years for families, for women, for children? – I tell you: Because you didn't have any ideas, because you just weren't ready for it. I am also pleased that we now have Mrs. Maria Rauch-Kallatine's wife from the ÖVP in the government, who will be very well connected to these two areas – also from her personal experience, from her professional qualifications and from her political experience. I am also pleased that we have succeeded in truly implementing all these measures in the ÖVP/FPÖ administration in a very short time. The family-popular desire of the Family League is, as mentioned above, implemented until one point. Ladies from the SPÖ! If you think that the childcare allowance is an incentive to choose against employment, I will tell you: It's the chance to have more time for children. It is the chance to improve the quality of family relationships. That's our answer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We want all mothers to receive babysitting money – also housewives, also farmers, also students. We want this! We're on it! We think this is the right way. We will, of course, have to take further accompanying measures, we will initiate and force innovative children's projects – also for the care of the 10- to 15-year-olds. I think this is very important. I believe that we need new, innovative child care models and variants that are oriented to the working world, but also adapt to the new challenges of the working world and the changed situations in the families. We simply have to go new ways and take into account the changes in the families – towards single children, towards divorce children, towards single parents. This too is very important to us. The right to part-time employment, negotiated by Federal Chancellor Schüssel, until the schooling of children is also an important step, is an important measure. This is also something that does not speak against women, but rather quite the contrary, because we will – and we will discuss this today – also ensure that women who choose to force childcare have no disadvantages in calculating pensions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I say quite honestly and I say this quite consciously: I do not share the opinion that it is a betrayal of emancipation when women choose to take more time for children. I believe that this is a good, a right way to devote itself to this area for a while. Of course, we want to invite the fathers. All these offers are also addressed to the fathers. We have a partnership in mind. There are too few laws alone. Laws alone cannot force equality, partnership. This is also about rethinking in the minds of people and ultimately also about a new attitude. In any case, we will continue to pursue – and this is our concern – in this government, in the Schüssel II government, the way to take measures in the interests of families, but also in the interest of women and children, which make Austria the most family-friendly but also the most child-friendly country.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4787	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4806	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen and on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a rather multiplicity of feelings – I don't know how you are – when I think about the fact that in a few minutes the Federal Chancellor will be producing himself here and will present the toughest and most brutal pension reduction reform of the history of the Second Republic, which will intervene massively in the families of Austria. [[Abg. Grossruck: Aspirin C!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's more than cold and cynical when Federal Minister Bartenstein – when I came in I heard it on the car radio – says on the radio: This is a woman- and family-friendly reform! This is more than cold and cynical, because the opposite is the case, and nothing of what the Federal Chancellor is going to say today will disarm it. Many of us are currently attending many events, because this pension reduction reform is being discussed in a massive way. I was at such an event yesterday with Mr Schöls. There was an example of a family, a so - called core family, consisting of mother, father, and child. The father has been working in shift at the OMV for 30 years, the mother is a nurse, also working in the cycling service, speaking shift service. The adult daughter lives at home and, according to Father, has a good job. This man has calculated these pension reduction measures for his family, and the following is the case: He loses 20 percent, his wife 36 percent, and his daughter far more than 30 percent. That's 100 percent in a family! [[Abg. Scheibner: How can you know where it was decided today?]] A whole pension is gone. Is that supposed to be a good family and social policy? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is astrology what you are doing!]] That is why I think it is a bit amusing if we talk about family policy today – loose from your reduction measures – you can't do that. The 1999 Family Report was a good basis for preparing me for this current hour yesterday. The opposite of what Mr Bleckmann says is inside. The family report is published every ten years, and in the last ten years we have been in government responsibility. [[Abg. Scheibner: In the last ten years, you have not been in government responsibility!]] There have been many measures which have led to improvements in the family sector, Mr Scheibner. This report appears every ten years. We were in government responsibility for 30 years. What you brought together was a single measure. They have argued for months on what this measure is supposed to mean: Children's check, child care allowance, child benefit. [[Abg. Scheibner: You were against it! Why were you against it? Why were you against the child care allowance?]] Posters have designed you, you've competed with each other. The most tasteless was that of your head of state with the children's pop, and so on and so on. It came out. There is now a study on this childcare allowance, where it is clear from the headline that it contains deterioration for women. [[Abg. Scheibner: What now: Is child care money good or bad?]] – No, Mr Scheibner, but improvements are necessary! But we don't hear about it. I would finally like to hear how you improve this childcare allowance so that women can make it easier for them to agree on work and family. [[Abg. Scheibner: introduce something! You're always against it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is, the longer the women are out of work, the worse – and that says the results of this study – they will be paid when they get back in, and the less pension they will receive. This is not a family policy in the sense that we support it. This is anti-female and family policy you're making! It leads to massive disadvantages in women. Professor Badelt said this already in 1999 as to how the family report can be seen, although you now want to give us the opposite. [[Abg. Scheibner: But there you really were in the government!]] In order for child and work to be truly compatible, you need to create new incentives. Mr Kuntzl has already said: Family policy is a little more than just a measure you have introduced. [[Abg. May. Molterer: A good measure!]] The next generation is about, these are the children and the young people of today. Last year at the World Children's Summit, children and young people created a truly modern definition of family. § 15 states: A modern concept of family is the recognition of the different forms of family in different socio-political systems. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I recall the words of the Federal Chancellor in his government statement that Austria should be the most family-friendly and child-friendly country in the world in 2010. Austria will only become the most child-friendly and family-friendly country in 2010 if it has the best education and training system in the world – we are far from it – if the needs for childcare facilities are best met in international comparison, and many more points will be implemented. We will not tire of demanding this promise on every occasion.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4979	Mr Dolinschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e4997	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I give my predecessor the right when she says that family policy is not limited to just one measure. Family policy already covers the period before birth, the education, the entire lifetime, to the death. That's not a question! All of us should be aware that the benefits provided by families, especially by women for society, are indispensable for a functioning society. It should therefore be a family-political concern of all parliamentarians to support families financially in their duties and to recognise their achievements and to create the framework for genuine freedom of choice for all parents in the future, as it has been in recent years. If it was used here that the SPÖ held responsibility for more than 30 years, I have to say: Everything has certain benefits, you have to go new ways. I also understand that no one from the SPÖ or the Greens is now against the childcare allowance. It was a milestone within the framework of the family policy measures in Austria, which is undisputed. But there are also many other things that have led to the help of families. I only recall the introduction of the home aid for students and the re-introduction of the home aid for apprentices abolished by the SPÖ/ÖVP government in the short term and the entry of FPÖ into the government by 1. ==References====External links== Now, both students and apprentices, if they live in second accommodation for training purposes, can receive a home travel allowance, retroactively with 1. ==References== [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The whole is standard and depends on the distance of the accommodation. The ‘new settlement’ introduced also entails a continuation of the payment of child care contributions for periods of child care, for the duration of the educational career, a family hospice car, which was also recently created, and for part-time workers. Family hospice: Ladies and gentlemen! With the introduction of the family hospice with 1. In July 2002, there was a substantial opportunity to accompany or care for children who were dying on their last life course. There's a hard balance. It is possible to obtain care money from level 3 if someone already has Stage 3 from level 4. Health and pension insurance as well as payment entitlements are maintained. There is also protection against dismissal and dismissal and an early right of return. The right to holiday and special payment in the case of a karenz is also granted. I believe that the Social Democrats should be fire and flame for this. The new childcare allowance has been mentioned many times today. In principle, this is a family-political milestone that was first introduced to Carinthia. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Bravo!]] It is true, however, that the federal child care allowance has not yet reached the extent that is currently the case in Carinthia. We want to force the extension of the childcare allowance in the future, including for multiple births, because the purchase costs and the time spent on care for multiple births are, of course, much higher. It is a special concern for us to do something in the case of multiple births. Allow me, at the end of the day, to draw attention to an essential success in combating poverty. The family allowance is 1st. It will be increased in January 2002. ==References== There was an increase in family allowances for children from 3 January 2003 onwards. Year of life: €7.3 per month. An improvement was also made for older children. An increase in the surcharge for significantly disabled children has also been made, including an increase in the additional charge by 36 €. Furthermore, the care allowance for children has been introduced from birth. These are measures that have been put forward in recent years, which have to be highlighted and which no one can actually be against. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We will continue our work on this path and will continue to carry on essential things for the Austrian families. Support us in this work!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e5045	Mrs Mag. Weinzinger reported. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e5063	Mr President. High house! I will try to prove myself to be a real Austrian and to speak with as much feeling as possible. Since this is also a feeling of indignation, I will not find it very difficult to face up to this debate and the pension reform, which we are still discussing today. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Today, in your presentation, you have sketched a picture of the family and a family concept, how it doesn't even appear in the most fast-paced Hollywood films and which is characterized by being very far away from the reality of many families. In many families there are patchwork constellations, remarriages, different partners, different families in the same household and – horribile dictu for some here in the hall – perhaps even same-sex communities with children who live together. All of this doesn't seem to be family for you. Let me therefore address just one aspect of family, which you very shamefully conceal here and which is in smooth contradiction to what Mr Vice-Chancellor said. He meant: Family means protection. I can only tell you that for 300 000 people, women, every year in Austria, family does not mean protection, but violence. The number of acts of violence against women is very high, namely the violence of men in family and family groups. It is estimated that four girls are sexually harassed on average – usually by family members of the narrower or other family. What is the message the government has for these families? – You delete support, shorten projects, and block advisory facilities. They have a family concept that builds on the pater familiae, on one – the word is not rightly derived from it – patriarchal model, a family concept, which is by the way also imported into politics, as several countries and sometimes the Federal Government already show, and which assumes that one defines an economic unit of the family in which the woman is usually more dependent on the attachment and economically. If it's already in your imagination, I'll ask you: Why are you not so consistent and say there is a pension split, the acquired pension rights of the active partner fifty-fifty are shared with the non-working partner or partner? Be consistent, at least in your own world picture! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What else does this government offer to families and, above all, to care for children or other caregivers? Let us really talk about this – unfortunately, time will not be enough now – what the government is doing in the area of further education, jobs, re-entry, mobility for women, the situation of women in rural areas and so on, with regard to the care of dependent children, children under three years of age, children in the afternoon when the kindergarten closes at 3 p.m. and so on. Let us speak seriously about this, and let us not just make Sunday-speaking confessions! Let us look at what this federal government offers with regard to family work, which it automatically assigns to women, with the pension reform: a calculation that brings women blatant disadvantages. 40 years of working life, characterised by periods of leave, gaps, part-time and minor employment, means a smooth deterioration, clearly also on the account extract, for women. I think it is cynical when the woman's alleged Minister for Smoking Callat says that there will be no harm for women, that the income shears are no longer going on. Her advice on low-income women – 17 percent of women who earn less than €1,000 – is therefore logical to look for a rich man. [[Federal Minister for Smoking: Wrong!]] What else does the government offer women in the pension reform? – There are child care periods that are more credited. But what is the government worth child care? – Less than the present service, because the present service is charged income dependent on the pension, the childcare only according to the compensation allowance rate. Do you know what the increase you want to sell us as great progress now is? – In the year about 12,50 €! Thank you on behalf of women, thank you very much to this government, which is presenting us with an anti-female pension reform, and thank you very much to Mrs Minister, who today, with her consent to this reform, has discharged content!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e5109	No one is reported in the word anymore. I declare that the current hour is over. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e5130	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 56/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e5416	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply 56/AB to Question 44/J by the honourable Members. Terezija Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen. Colleagues regarding the appointment of Dr. Christian Romanoski as head of the abbot. III/5 by the Federal Minister for the Interior. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e5449	It is proposed that the debates on points 1 and 2, which are the statements of the Federal Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor, as well as 3 and 4 of the agenda, should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e5476	In the presidential conference, we reached a consensus on the duration of the debate on the agenda. A day block time of 10 “Vienna hours” has been agreed. This results in 175 for ÖVP and SPÖ, 120 for the liberals and 130 minutes for the Greens. The following time-limits for debates were also agreed at 3 p.m.: First of all, a declaration by the Federal Chancellor with 20 minutes and a statement by the Vice-Cancellor with 20 minutes, then a word message per group of 20 minutes each, then a word message per group of 10 minutes each and then once again a word message per group of 10 minutes each. The remaining speaking time by 15 o'clock may be evenly allocated by the President-in-Office to the political groups. There is also agreement that during the period of broadcast per group of television, no more than one word is made for the actual correction, but not during the remainder of the speaking time to be distributed by the Presidency. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. I can also make the following communication. We have the last time a debate has been broadcast on television, on the request of the ORF, so that he has time for the midday news, from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. our meeting interrupted. This time at the Presidential Conference, we have long discussed whether we can't reach the ORF that he's reporting on time, so that we can meet without interruption. The ORF has informed us by letter that this is almost technically impossible because there are problems with magnetic recording. That is why we will be interrupting this time again at 3 p.m. for 15 minutes, so as not to disadvantage a political group and to show the audience the news of lunch and the weather report. It's no different. But we will not let it down, I will look for the conversation again, so that we can advise continuously and yet it will be technically possible for all those who speak to come to terms on TV. - So far to this point. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Chancellor in accordance with Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the subject of “pension security reform” 2. Point Declaration by the Vice-Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the topic of “pension security reform”
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e5537	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Following these statements, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement. 20 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e5565	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it makes sense that today, on the day on which the Council of Ministers adopted the budget accompanying laws, which are the prerequisites for a double budget for the years 2003 and 2004, to be presented next week, we have adopted a fundamental statement on the subject of pension security reform, which is a central work project in the government programme and a project that directly concerns life planning, trust, social security institutions in Austria and millions of people. Ladies and gentlemen! In the analysis of the problems, we were actually in agreement. For three years, the Pension Reform Commission has reached agreement on the need for a new model that builds on 65 years of statutory retirement age for men and, as long as there is constitutional differentiation in women's age, 60 years for women. This is the statutory retirement age. Previously, one should be able to retire only if one is ill, has an accident, is invalid, is inability to work. Of course, there must be this possibility at any time in a social state. Secondly, it is out of dispute that we are striving for a lifetime calculation of 40 years, which is striving for steps, but in the end, not the 15 best years as at present, but the living income situation of 40 years is to play a role. 65 years or 60 years of statutory retirement age, 40 years of the calculation period and 45 years of insurance and contribution are expected to lead to a net replacement rate of 80 percent of this new life calculation curve. In fact, there was agreement in the Pension Reform Commission. As the social partners were involved, this has been discussed for three years, this has been discussed most intensively in the exploratory discussions on the formation of this federal government, and I believe that this is also a reasonable approach. This has been achieved essentially throughout the European Union. Some countries – such as the Scandinavian countries – already have a higher legal retirement age of about 67 years, the Germans are discussing this very intensively and also very controversially, but I think we are getting along with this pension reform model. [[Abg. Oillinger: “We’re coming out,” that must not be true!]] Important is: How do we get there? What concrete steps are there, and what suggestions can be made to people? How can you develop this together? Deputy Chancellor Herbert Haupt and I, as well as the entire government team and all the staff and experts, have discussed, reviewed and calculated very intensively some proposals, and we propose the following measures: First: The 40-year calculation measure – from 15 to 40 years – is expected to be implemented after a long transitional period of 25 years from 2028 onwards. There's no one to say that's pretty bad. – This is a gradual, careful, careful lead to this situation. The second point is the question: In what reasonable period can the early retirement age be phased out? – Of course, this is not to be done as a matter of course, because the life planning of people is at stake. We propose to you today together and represent this also to the public that within a transitional period of ten years, starting with the 1. July 2004 – until then we hope that the employment situation will also be greatly relaxed – until 2013, this legal retirement age will be reached, i.e. 65 years for men, 60 years for women. Thirdly, it was out of dispute that 45 years of contributions should guarantee 80 percent of the total living income for the pension. We originally intended to reduce the 2 percent increase in a train, just as we did three years ago in a train, but we will do so within three years. It is therefore planned that: 25 years transitional period for 40 years throughput, ten years transitional period for the expiry of the early pension, three years transitional period for reaching the situation that 45 years of contribution can be used to obtain 80 percent. That is, I believe, a reasonable, fair, socially responsible concept, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The discussion is not new, it has been held in Austria over and over again. There have been many attempts, but not the big throw, so you could actually have said that now has hand and foot for the next few years and decades. In Germany, as already mentioned, there are fierce discussions. On Sunday evening there was a very controversial discussion not only in Austria on television in “Openly said” but at the same time in the ARD there was a highly interesting, exciting discussion, an expert round with Berlin’s mayor Wowereit, a high-ranking social democratic official, the juso leader, Bavarian State Minister Huber, Professor Rürup, with the German trade union president and with business representatives. In principle, these cornerstones stand in a much higher measure than in our case. We should remember quite openly the following: When the ASVG was created in 1956, the average pension was 63 years – now it is about five years earlier. At that time, the average life of a pensioner was perhaps eight or nine years old – today a man with 21 years of age and a woman with 25 or 26 years of average life expectancy after retirement. That's great, because we've actually won a whole generation. [[Abg. Oillinger: (a document holding high) Upper Austrian government!]] This is a fascinating opportunity for our society, but at the same time, of course, it also results in the need to respond to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We do not make it as simple as some of these days' proposals say: a little bit increase contributions, some pensioners disassemble and leave the other unchanged, at least until after 2010. As it would be, if nothing happened, I may explain to you on the basis of one, I believe, unwarranted information of a very reasonable Chamber of Workers – you can read it right away. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] If we don't do anything, we would have to increase contributions by 50 per cent within the next 40 years or cut pensions by 45 per cent or increase the retirement age by ten years. [[Abg. Eder: That's nonsense!]] [[Abg. Oils: Do it, you'll cut it!]] [[Abg. Oils: This is a reluctance!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That this cannot be a way for a responsible federal government and responsible politicians – we are all, I hope – to go is out of question. We don't. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We therefore have the choice: either to make reasonable, predictable and cautious cuts or later to have dramatic losses. Professor Marin once wrote: Those who fail the right time believe that they can make it easy, are actually at risk of the social state he or she proposes to protect. That cannot be our responsibility! [[Calls and calls between ODP and SPÖ MPs.]] We have the courage to be responsible. We therefore propose a pension scheme which is reasonable and absolutely acceptable to the public. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The main point of this reform is that people already in retirement have nothing to fear. A worker, an employee, a trader, a farmer have nothing at all to fear if they are already on retirement. [[Abg. Wimmer: politician!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] It's different with other concepts. In our concept, we guarantee that the existing pensions of workers and employees, farmers and traders will not be intervened. It's important not to scare these people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, If you want to go to retirement today, but want to work longer, you can do so without having to fear anything. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] He is not threatened with any reductions, no extension of the calculation period, no measures that are in any way negative, because we do not want to trigger a run in the early retirement. Together we want to give those who want to work the chance to stay in employment longer. We do not run apprehension, but we offer concrete solutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The opposition's concern, as we are talking about short-term robbery, has already been able to oppose a very important and effective counter-argument with the long-term transitions. [[Abg. Oillinger: Long-term robbery!]] Third point: We urgently need accompanying measures for older employees. The Federal Government is aware of this and has therefore proposed a number of essential accompanying measures in these budget accompanying laws. For the first time, there is a really effective and noticeable reduction in additional labour costs: For older people about 60 years old, the reduction is 13 percent. For young people, from 56 to 58 years of age, it is a little less, but it is still a tremendous incentive for older employees to work longer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: There's Bartenstein!]] Mr Gusenbauer, I am very pleased that the SPÖ will finally jump on this train and say: Yes, wage reductions for older employees make sense! – It wasn't always like that. But I am very pleased with the agreement on this point, which we have long called for and which we have achieved today. Furthermore, we will guarantee older people who are already in the age-part-time that everyone who is with the date of the year 1. In April, he has a contract with his employer with no loss of income; he can retire at the scheduled time. All horror reports that crying workers have to work because they have to go to the unemployed and get much less there are far missing. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's cynicism, what you're saying!]] Whoever is today in the age part-time remains in it, his/her rights are preserved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Similarly, we have provided for the long-term people – 45 years of contributions to men, 40 years of contributions to women – so that they can continue to retire at 55 and 60 years of age by 2007; this is the current scheme. But in addition, the Minister of Social Affairs is given the opportunity to create a permanent right for particularly vulnerable professional groups affected by health risks or difficult working conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that with these measures – which we mean very seriously – we are giving a very important impetus so that in the future we can really continue to exploit the experience of the older ones in our economic process. We will still need them bitterly, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Großruck: (in the direction of SPÖ) Now they are disappointed!]] One thing we need to think about is that Austria is within the European Union one of those countries that have the lowest share of employed workers between 55 and 65 years of age. In Austria it is below 30 percent. For the more than 60-year-olds, it is even 14 percent. The EU average is at least 10 percent higher each. Consider what it would mean to make this human capital useful to Austria's economy and its resources! – I therefore believe that we are absolutely on the right track. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In the discussion, there was a legitimate warning: What about the time of child rearing or what about those who take care of the family hospice? – We respond to that. We would have preferred to do so in the context of the overall harmonisation of pension systems, but it is quite reasonable to prefer that and to offer this answer right now. The proposal we have would mean that three years per child will be removed from the calculation period. Let us take a very concrete example: A woman who has two children – the 15 best years remain upright – would therefore have no effect at all by 2010 if the calculation time was extended. In addition, I believe that we will carry out an appreciation of childhood at 150 per cent in the coming years at the suggestion of the Minister of Women and the Secretary of State for Family Affairs. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: In 28 years!]] In addition, Mrs Glavischnig, I add that the consideration of these three years per child is taking place retroactively, also for children born in 1950 or 1960. [[Abg. Oillinger: This does not affect the pension!]] Moreover, for the future pension-based 24 months will be introduced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: This is totally irrelevant!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I say quite openly to you: In terms of child- and family-friendliness, in terms of the care of women's interests and rights, no one can exceed us in this House. We attach great importance to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] No one has prevented previous governments from taking these measures, which we are proposing here, into permanent law. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I believe that the women's politicians of all political parties have made very valuable contributions in the past. [[Abg. Broukal: Your resistance failed!]] Some things have been criticized because due to calculation, deductions in the case of early retirement may arise cumulations, accumulations. That is a legitimate objection. We have responded with intense discussions. We've already had a cover for the cancellations of the early board, which is now running out. As of 2009, there are virtually no losses as this early pension expires. However, such a loss may occur during the calculation periods. & Again: We would of course have proposed this in the context of overall harmonisation. We prefer it, even if it only becomes effective in ten or 15 years. We are already giving the right answer to take away the horror forecasts, which sometimes sound like, some 25 percent of their pension alone out of this title would be lost. [[Call the SPÖ:Who?]] Our answer is – listen carefully now! –: a maximum loss of 3.5 percent by 2007, 7 percent by 2015 and 10 percent by 2015. [[Abg. Oils: That's enough!]] Ask Member Gusenbauer how he wants to justify his 10 percent loss on average. – Ladies and gentlemen! That is more than that, to say quite clearly here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I therefore believe that we have offered some very important suggestions and have also responded to the public discussion. For me it is quite clear that on such an essential question, which affects all Austrians sometime, in which we must act in good time, a fair, objective, open discussion is also necessary. The question we ask is: If we act now or move, do we water, do we delay? – This is the crucial point! If someone owns a house and notices that it starts to intrude with a roof tile, I don't think he should wait until the problems get even bigger, but he should start the repair in time in such a way that in the end nothing happens to the house. This is precisely what we are talking about in our joint social fabric. [[Abg. Ollinger: That was a good joke!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, the fair offer to the social partners and to the parliamentary groups: Work with us! We want to introduce a new policy board reform scheme that contains the same rules as everyone else – plus a noticeable solidarity contribution. Work with a punctuation and a later law in which the harmonisation of all insurmountable pension systems takes place! Work with us! I also say very openly – with all due respect, Mr President of the Council: It is important to return to the negotiating table, just as the social partners have been in the pension reform commission over the last three years. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] So I officially invite you from this point of view: Work on this important project for all Austrians! But I also say very openly to you: The pressure of the road will and must not be turned into democracy! That is clearly what I am saying here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I now quote “Die Zeit”, which is not really suspected of being committed to Neo-Liberism, which has written literally, in view of the discussion in Germany, which is similar: “Law are made by the freely elected and democratically elected legislator. What the Bundestag and the Federal Council have decided in accordance with the Constitution applies – whether it likes an association of interests or a union or not. Finally, those who do not accept this legislative monopoly demand the right of strengthening.” Ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore also confident that this will be understood correctly. I know there are different opinions here – yes, I have to – but I expect all of us to take seriously the Austrian path of critical approach, critical dialogue and things... [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] Mr President, let me explain my thoughts here in peace and quiet. It is important to show, also for the discussion culture in the house, that you can listen to each other. – We have listened to some critical voices in the review, and we expect you to listen when we try to do something meaningful, good for Austria. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] With this pension reform, the current pensions in Austria remain safe and young people can trust to receive a safe pension themselves. Austria remains sustainable with our policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e5983	I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor for his statement and now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor. There are also 20 minutes of speaking time agreed for him. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e6004	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home and here at the visitor gallery of this High House, you will follow the plenary session! [[Abg. Eder: The “Small Man ”!]] High house! Today, within a current hour, we have already discussed family policy and the generation policy of this state at an early stage. We now submit the Federal Government's federal financial laws for the years 2003 and 2004, together with the budget accompanying laws, to Parliament for further processing as a joint project of the Federal Government. This package also includes the Budgetary Support Act on Pension Reform. High house! The Austrian Federal Government has set itself the goal of securing future pensions. One must tell the truth to people in this state [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Who prevents you from doing so?]] A good and a secure social system can only be afforded by a state if the economy flourishes and if workers secure with their earnings and their tax and contribution benefits from this social system. It is therefore particularly important that this Federal Government, with the budget and the budget accompanying laws and this pension reform, secures and preserves the economic location of Austria, because only then will we be able to afford the high level of the social state of Austria for all. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We are obliged to describe the truth openly and honestly – everything else would, in my view, be a continuation of the policy of the past decade, when the respective German Chancellors Vranitzky and climate have missed the pensioners a game of calming in two letters, in order to make exactly the opposite of what was promised in the letters of the older generation in the years thereafter. Therefore, people have been insecured. – We don’t want to insure people anymore, we’ll tell them the truth. We have focused our projects on the fact that that generation that has built up this Second Republic in the most difficult circumstances after the Second World War, in its pension in which it is located today, can in the future enjoy the social benefits it has built up in the pension system – a promise that all the politicians of all the couleurs of this Parliament have made several times in the past months and years. This Federal Government implements the existing pension reform projects. We will also ensure pensions for the younger generation. The younger generation is currently uncertain. The reports we have received from the European Union concerning the state of the Austrian pension system are re-readable. The European Union informed us in March 2003 that: The Federal Government's intention to reform the pension system is welcomed. The joint report notes that the focus on the first pillar is high expenditure from the budget in the EU comparison – high in the EU comparison! The joint report states that the reform is indeed a necessity. The European Commission has carried out the following guidelines for economic policy 2003/05: Despite a reform in 2000 and a significant increase in benefits in recent years, long-term sustainability of the pension system is not ensured in view of the forecast population ageing. Ladies and gentlemen! We have no time to continue to push the pension reform, which was envisaged in 1995 and 1996 in the context of the discussion among the experts on television today, Rürup, for Austria, to the long-term bank. As the Minister for Social Affairs of the Republic, I would have liked to see many proposals of the years 1995/97 implemented and not watered down. We would then have more harmonious and long transitional periods. Therefore, I think it is good that the Austrian Parliament and the government parties today do not repeat the mistakes of 1995 to 1997 and postpone this pension reform, but respond quickly. The Door, Dear Ladies and gentlemen, it is open to the social partners. What we achieved last Sunday in the negotiations has been an important concern for me in this pension reform, which is now being amended in relation to the draft assessment. We extend the “hackler rule” until 1. January 2007, and it will then be in permanent law – in permanent law, Mr Oillinger! – for those to whom medical and occupational medical experts predict a shorter service life due to the duration and nature of their profession. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Watch out, Mr. Oellinger!]] An extension of this so-called hackler rule to permanent law should also be an important concern for the social partners, namely, to jointly shape it in the interests of their employees in such a way that not only the prevention at work, employment protection measures and safety at work are improved, but also those affected workers who are there despite all these efforts – Austria has for the first time brought it to below 100 000 accidents, which is an improvement of more than 20 000 – in the so-called hackler regulation from 2007. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It should also be a concern of the Chamber of Labour, it should also be a concern of the trade unions, and it will certainly be a concern of the economic operators and their representatives to cooperate here. Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few days, the social partners have assured us that they will be until 30. In September of this year, they want to participate in a harmonised pension scheme for all from 2004. As a social minister, I am interested in the fact that, in addition to the experts of the social partners who have been involved in the federal reform commission for three years, the social partners are also officially using the next weeks and months to develop, develop and shape the harmonisation of pension systems, which is justly represented by all. Today, the Federal Government has kept this path open to all, expressly, with the scoreboard adopted by it, for a harmonised pension system in Austria. I do not think it is necessary for day-to-day policy reasons to gain an advantage for regional or other elections that send people to the streets. I think, however, that all those who are called into this democracy – these are the parliamentarians of both houses – will use the opportunities for discussion in the next few weeks in common to secure this important project for the state and for all generations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few days and weeks, the situation of women and the alleged disparities between the different professional groups have been a point of discussion. In the weekend negotiations, after the assessment period, we have achieved that the same cover applies to the calculation period, both for the ASVG and for the civil service sector. We have achieved that the “hackler rule” will be extended and that a “hackler rule” will now be provided for under permanent law – since I invite the social partners to participate afterwards – which will continue to take into account in the future in the permanent right all those who have to expect from their working world a shorter life expectancy and significantly worse health conditions. We have achieved an improvement in the billing of child training periods under permanent law. We have a cover of the calculation losses with the levels from 3.5 percent to 31. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website We have achieved a reorganisation of the increase amounts of all advances and discounts by a grinding system of over three years from 2 percent to 1.78 percent in quarterly steps. We have the introduction of the age-part-time scheme in transitional law. We already had the accompanying measures in the assessment draft for older workers. Ladies and gentlemen! While in the Federal Republic of Germany, under the responsibility of your friend party, the Social Democrats under Schröder, a pension reform is being discussed today up to a retirement age of 97 years – up to 67. Year of life – this federal government believes that it is time to implement the reform quickly in such a way that the statutory retirement age, which has been valid for decades and is 65 years, can be maintained in Austria and must not be put up. [[Call the SPÖ:67! 67!]] [[Abg. Eder: A little nervous?]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! While your party friends in the Federal Republic of Germany are discussing reducing unemployment benefit to the level of emergency aid more quickly and quickly, we are discussing ensuring that workers over the age of 55 and over 60 have a clear refund of their additional wage costs to the same extent as businesses in order to improve the situation for older workers on the labour market. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I therefore believe that everyone who has assumed responsibility in this State must not only be aware of this responsibility, but also bear this responsibility. The responsibility for all of us here in Parliament is to further develop and develop the social fabric in Austria. In the current discussion there is already a winner for me, and these are those who have done child training in the sense of the generation contract of the first pillar. According to the generation contract, only those – whether women with children or men with children, whether partnerships or families with children – can redeem in this state and not those who seek a single existence and rely on the generation contract. Therefore, in a state where the first pillar of the pension system will continue to be the key pillar of the pension system, it is important to state-politically to shape it in such a way that family benefits are finally, contrary to the period before 1995. [[Abg. Oils: broken!]] That is the effort of this Federal Government! [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is not cynical, but reality, ladies and gentlemen, if there are 14 states in Europe that have built up their pension system on a three-pillar model, that this Federal Government is consistently developing and developing the second and third pillar that we have created in the last legislative period, in order to ensure also Austrian workers in the second and third pillars the compensation that is no longer possible in the first pillar on the basis of demographics in the future. [[Abg. Oils: How? How? How does that work?]] Anyone who promises man more than in the tax pot is unfair. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you look at the young people in this country who will retire in 20 years, they will have the option in the new finish-up model to take out their claims for treatment or to manage these claims for an additional pension for the future. [[Abg. Oils: Oh you!]] [[Abg. Oils: It's getting thin!]] It has the opportunity for each individual to make a decision on it. You can also look at the capitalisation effects over 20 or 30 years of low income payments. These are certainly benefits that are able to complete the first pillar fully viable, so that even at age one does not have to lose income. These 1.53 percent in the second column are paid by the operators for the service providers as well as for the bad earners. Unlike earlier, when you, the social democrats, who had sole responsibility for the settlements, now have 100 percent of the employees in the companies the opportunity to manage, and not only 15 percent of those who have reached the appropriate times. I therefore believe that it is not cynical to point out this possibility, but only fair and justified in international comparison. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] On the forecasts that social democracy gave us in the autumn of the previous year: You have forecast us 340 000 unemployed by the end of February of this year. With 294,000 unemployed, we are far too high! But we are at least 26 000 unemployed under the forecast of the labour market service and 46 000 unemployed under your forecasts. The economic policy of the Austrian Federal Government cannot have been so bad that we have not achieved significantly better figures than you have predicted – or you have deliberately put the forecasts higher in order to make the mood for the then elections. I don't want to put the second one in your hands. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Since you have been talking about the opportunities of young people in this state over the last few days, I can also point out the unemployment rates of today. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: This is cynicism!]] For women, with the exception of female academics, we have only positive values, as unemployment has decreased, over all groups. In the youth between 19 and 25, there is also a very encouraging development. But I already admit: We will have to continue to work so that women who are in academic professions also take academias, who have opportunities in the labour market, and so that we do not also produce unemployed women. I can remind you of the numbers: The number of women who have been identified as unemployed fell by 2.7 percent, the number of men who have been identified as unemployed fell by 2.1%, the 15 to 19-year-olds minus 4.5%, the female aged 19 to 25-year-olds minus 0.2%, the negative 2.8% among 15 to 19-year-olds and the 15 to 25-year-olds minus 0.5%. I therefore believe that if you also look at access – minus 10.3 percent for women, for the unemployed as a whole minus 6.8 percent – we are able to diagnose in the valley of economic development, internationally, in Austria a recovery phase, on which we want to build up through good conditions in the future. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: A “resurrection phase” you call that?! A “resurrection phase” is what you call the highest unemployment rate!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are all measured by international comparison. [[Abg. Ollinger: Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Please interrupt here!]] As far as unemployment is concerned, Austria is still the second best country in youth employment in Europe. We are the third best country in employment of all 15. We've caught up in important benchmarks. Only in one area are we still third-party, that is in the employment of over 60-year-olds. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that these measures by the Federal Government are at the right time to maintain the Austrian pension system in the future and, together with all those interested in it – social partners, parliamentarians from all parties – to promote and discuss the further development of the pension system as a harmonious pension system across all professional groups in Austria. The door to negotiations is open. Whoever strikes them must bear the responsibility for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e6265	I would also like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for his statement. We are now entering the debate on these statements. The speaking times are known. Mr Gusenbauer spoke. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e6289	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Chancellor has just told us that he would have been happy if there had been a deeper, sharper pension reform in 1995/96. This would facilitate his activity today! . I remember when the FPÖ was in opposition in 1995/1996, it was the one who said that what was decided here was the worst thing for the Austrian pensioners, and it was not even willing to agree to what was decided in 1995. – So much for your credibility, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who's doing it now?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fassleven.]] Secondly, Mr Fassleven: ‘Social state is in the dead end. Who pays the pensions tomorrow?” – This could well be from the recent publications of the ÖVP. But it is already from a publication of the ÖVP from 1959! Since 1959, it has been said that the pension system is not eligible for funding. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think you should always look at a target istic comparison. Let us look at the forecasts that were developed in 1991! How has the amount of pension actually developed? – If you only have a spark of honesty – just a spark! – then you will find that the real development of pension costs in Austria did not correspond to the most pessimistic assumption, not to the most optimistic assumption, but to the fact that the expenses remained even under the most optimistic assumption! That is why I do not think that when pension discussions always take place at the level of cash-and-run calls, they will not happen in reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The truth is that the pension reforms of the 1990s take place at least in this legislative period – also because of the fact that birth-weaker years, for example among men, are retired. This leads to the fact that, by the end of the legislative period, the federal contribution is even falling in relation to the national income. That's the truth! Even if you read through the reports of your pension reform commission – Mr Amon, I assume you have done it or will do it – you will find that the Pension Reform Commission also communicates: The major problem of the financing of pensions begins with 2015 and is more rising from 2020 onwards. That is why it is right to discuss today how to properly reform pensions in such a way that they can be provided for this day in 2015 or 2020. That's what I'm absolutely standing for! But such a discussion has nothing to do with the need to provide money in the short term for the Minister of Finance and his budget holes, such a discussion has only the prospect of making long-term savings. I think it is quite amusing that on the day you continue to present, with some corrections, a pension reduction model, you decide at the same time in the Council of Ministers that you are buying a interception hunter for the Austrian federal army! In fact, it appears that the money that will be taken away from the pensioners in the short term by 2006 should serve to ensure that you can afford the interception hunters. At least the look is extremely bad, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] How can the pension system be secured in the long term? – Mr Bundeskanzler! Today, they have not said anything about the inequalities in the Austrian pension system, which, admittedly, have existed and which have developed for decades. Harmonization is not only an element of more pension justice, the harmonisation of pension systems can also lead to a more just distribution of pension funds, and therefore harmonisation is also part of the financing of a pension reform. I wonder, If you take a first step today and once you cut the pensions – does this mean that under the title of harmonisation in autumn the second reduction will be achieved, again for the ASVG or only for others or for both? – All pension experts agree on this: A really big throw is that by harmonizing pension systems, the money available for pensions is more fairly distributed among all pensioners. And that's exactly what you've failed, and we're right to blame you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Over long distances of your speech, I have had the impression that you have thrown your pension reform concept completely over the pile, because you have spent most of the time talking about 80 percent net replacement at the end – even for those who are young today and will retire in 2025, 2028 or 2034. After Mr Vice-Chancellor's remarks, I assume that this is not the case, because he has already talked about the need to add a second pillar to supplement the so-called first pillar, which we see as a pension, so that we can get back to a certain pension level. I don't know how long it will take for him to talk about the third pillar. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In other words, we are interested in how much each Austrian needs to make additional payments over a so-called second or third pillar in addition to his contributions to the pension system so that he can reach the target of 80 percent of the average average income as a pension. [[Abg. Scheibner: With you it's 15 percent! Your system has 15 percent!]] I have the impression that this mogel pack is only gradually tied up, because the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor have at least completely contradicted this question, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I think we should talk openly and honestly in Parliament. Mr. Federal Chancellor, you have... [[Abg. May. Molterer: Don't you do that?]] – I assume that you will do the same; otherwise, on Sunday, I suppose you will find the way to the confessional, Mr Molterer! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] But in Parliament, I believe, it is particularly important, especially if the objective of the ÖVP is that what we understand as pensions is to make up only 50 per cent of the pensions in the future, that another 10 or 15 per cent of the so-called settlement should come new, that is, the second pillar, and then another 20 to 25 per cent of the so-called third pillar. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: No, no, no!]] I ask myself the question – I should be glad, Federal Chancellor: Do you now have this concept that every Austrian has to pay three times to get a pension, tossed overboard, and returned to the charging process, or did you not tell us the whole truth today? – It would be urgently necessary to clarify the importance of pension security in our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To be honest: I can't recognize the big throw here. These are a number of adjustments. They have now introduced a number of transitional periods, some of which will have an effect, and others will not. But the basic structure of the pension system in the context of the payment procedure has not given you a big throw, because harmonisation does not exist, the existing injustices will not be eliminated, and your proposal that you can calculate three years of child rearing will unfortunately not change. This is a homeopathic dose for a big problem, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Moreover, I do not know anyone in Austria who believes that the pension reform should be postponed to the next or next year. All the actors who have spoken in recent weeks have come to know that we are making a pension reform in this year, which can become effective next year. [[Abg. Head: But your will not be effective!]] I therefore do not understand why you have put forward the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce and the trade unions which have offered you until 30. In September of this year, it was not possible to put on the table a ready approach to a pension reform. This does not mean any shift in pension reform at all. This only leads to the development of something on a broad basis, which ultimately becomes effective for all Austrians. I would therefore like to say to you: Democracy is not a one-way street! To say in Parliament that we are ready to cooperate, and then, when the economic partners come to show them the door, that is too little, Federal Chancellor! Democracy must be on both sides. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ellmauer: Who threatened to strike?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We didn't do anything!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We must also be aware that the future of our pensions – Mr Vice-Chancellor has pointed out the importance of employment development – in addition to all that is granted to pensions, it is primarily dependent on what the employment situation in Austria looks like. The fact that you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, are producing yourself in the face of record unemployment numbers and say that there is already a relaxation, I would like to say that you have told us this again and again last year, but no one in Austria has felt this relaxation. The truth is that if we count together the number of unemployed people and those who seek work and are in training, we still have far too high unemployment. It would be much better and the very best contribution that a Federal Government could make to pension protection to doing something for employment development in our country, because that is the only thing that will actually safeguard pensions in the future, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are using European comparisons – very much! – then explain to us why Austria is in the European Union’s leading position in terms of job growth. How does your labour market policy look like as a federal government? How does an offensive economic policy look from your side, which would only contribute to Austria's achieving the average in job development in Europe? – No initiatives have been presented for this purpose. The sad thing is that only by your failure in employment policy in the last two years has the social systems escaped € 350 million. If you say today that we have financial difficulties, then I say that a good part of these financing difficulties comes from the fact that with the rise of unemployment, both pension insurance, health insurance and accident insurance, € 350 million have been lost. A better economic policy would also mean fuller insurance for social policy in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Their changes presented today will not make this pension system fairer. It looks like the long-term consequences, especially for the young people in our country, have not been depleted by the proposals you have made. In addition, it looks like it is also important to have the budget under control in 2006 in order to make Mr Finanzminister's work in spending in other areas a little easier. But it is not the great throw, nor does it bring long-term security, nor does it conform to the principles of social justice. A reasonable, responsible government in Austria would go here and take the extended hand of the economic and social partners, all the reform concepts that have so far been presented to the public would also examine the social-democratic reform concept, at heart and kidneys, and discuss whether it is not significantly better in individual areas – at least a number of insurance themes that have already examined it. It would then adopt a pension reform on the basis of a solid discussion this year, which will result in unemployment not being artificially increased in the next few years – quite the contrary! – the people who are close to the pension are not afraid, but rather gives a job, and the boys are sure that they will receive a fair pension on the basis of a single payment, namely the contribution to pension insurance. I do not think it is fair, Mr President, to pay three times for a pension at the end of the day. The last generations have paid once for a pension in the payment procedure, and even today's working generation also claims that the pension contributions are paid to have a standard of living. [[Abg. Scheibner: So simple...!]] Three times pay for a pension, that's too much!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e6525	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. Same time of speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e6543	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Whoever travels in Austria in these days and weeks – we are all that, I assume – is naturally confronted with the discussion that many people have with us, which we have political responsibility – which many people have with us about the question: What is the perspective for old age care? What is the long-term perspective for pension insurance? What is the long-term perspective for young people in this country? Ladies and gentlemen! I can tell you from my experience in many conversations with people that the answer is actually unisono: Yes, we know that there is a need for a profound reform. [[Abg. Oils: “Very deep ”!]] The answer is unisono of all, whether young or old: Yes, we know that this reform is now necessary. And the call we receive as those who have been transferred the responsibility of the electorate is the following: Do this work now! Do not make the mistakes of the past to wait, delay, sow, water, but do the work now because now is the right time to implement this reform to secure pensions for people already in retirement and for the boys. [[Abg. Oils: At the politicians' pensions!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What people in this country expect of us is to do the necessary and do the necessary now. We, Mr Gusenbauer, are not going through the countries, we are going to have to deliver facts to people in this country, inform them with facts so that they can know why these steps are now necessary. And these facts are irrevocable. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank God the life expectancy has increased by more than eight years in the last 30 years. This is an achievement that we are proud of. This led to the situation compared to 1970, Mr. Oellinger, that at that time the average life expectancy of a pensioner, i.e. after retirement, amounted to about eight and a half years and people today – thank God! – well over 20, 21, 22 years can enjoy their pension – I hope to enjoy in health. And this period will be even longer because life expectancy is increasing. There has been a development in these 30 years when the number of years in which people are employed is about 43 years in 1970, around 37 years in 2001. What concerns us together – I agree with the family discussion – is the following: During the same period, the number of births at 112 000 in 1970 has fallen to 75 500 per year today. Do you know what the logical effect of this is? – The fact that in 1970 about 350 pensioners have come to 1,000 persons in employment and demographics have led to the prospect of 1 000 active, 1 000 contributors, about 1 000 pensioners in 2030. That is, the ratio of three to one changes to one. If we do not respond here, ladies and gentlemen, then the young people in this country will simply announce to us the most important good, namely the social cohesion of society, which is established in the generation agreement. [[Abg. Oellinger: You've already announced that!]] That is why we are acting! That is why we are now acting, ladies and gentlemen, and we are not waiting. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What few people in this country know – and that is to be said clearly: Only about 3 per cent of all people who retire per year go to retirement at the statutory retirement age, i.e. 60 or 65. 97 percent of all people who retire each year retire earlier. [[Abg. Oillinger: No wonder when it comes to reform!]] It would not be responsible, ladies and gentlemen, for the legislator to provide a legal retirement age based on which all the structures and systems are based, and we looked forward to doing nothing, endangering precisely this social connection and, through non-stuff, in reality questioning this first pillar, the secure pillar of the paid-back pension system. Not with us, ladies and gentlemen! We're acting! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] People also have a right to know what happens if nothing happens. I quote again, because it is so impressive, from a file of the Vorarlberg Chamber of Workers, in which it reads: If nothing happens, the contribution rates would have to be increased by 53 percent by 2045. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know what that means? – That means that if we did not do anything, we would assume that more than half of their income must be used for social expenditure. Who would carry that? Let us also think of this generation, which is the pillar of social cohesion in the future! The Chamber of Labour also says: If nothing happens, the pensions would have to be reduced by 45 percent. – No one wants to, but we can only prevent that if we act now. Or: The retirement age should be increased by more than ten years. - That's not what anyone wants. And precisely because of this, we are acting today, we are acting responsibly with a very clear objective: We want to create a uniform pension right, a harmonised pension right for all, we want to ensure exactly this insurance in old age on the proven three-pillar model not only today, not only tomorrow, but also for the boys in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I therefore address some of these questions. Thankfully, the Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor said: Existing pensions remain unaffected according to this concept. – The people who have worked out their pension in decades have also deserved this – that generation that has built Austria. But now the SPÖ comes with a concept, Mr Gusenbauer, and says: You have to intervene in existing pensions. [[Call the SPÖ:Falsch!]] – What does that mean? You say quite frankly, Mr Gusenbauer, that pensions and pensioners are not safe from you. With us from the ÖVP they are in good, safe hand! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They suggest that 10 percent of what goes beyond the ASVG maximum pension should be removed. Those who are dealing with this proposal will be very quick to see that this is essentially a matter of two groups: those officials who have a pension that is higher than the ASVG-pension – that is true. And the second group is one that has developed itself – for example through an occupational pension system – a higher pension. Now you propose to intervene in these pensions, to shorten them, to intervene in existing rights! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: As with Mr. Stumbling!]] If, Mr President, I am sorry, Mr Gusenbauer, you continue to think about your system, I will tell you what will happen: [[Ironic cheerfulness and detonative applause at SPÖ]] You suggest... [[Unrest at the SPÖ.]] – Obviously, you don't want to be concerned about your model. First, you asked me to do that, and I will! They therefore propose to use the funds from this intervention in existing pensions to ensure a certain degree of security in the future. At the same time, however, you are making a uniform pension right, in which there is no higher pension than the ASVG pension. - Good. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If your financing concept works, then the next step you propose from the Social Democracy in Austria will be to attack the voluntarily saved own contributions through voluntary high-level insurance. You also propose, Mr Gusenbauer, that work should be re-interpreted. And you're proposing to intervene in operational precautions, otherwise your system wouldn't work. Today you confess, in the sense that you have dropped the mask, that you actually leave a consensus that exists in Austria: They are no longer on the three-pillar model. That's the truth! You undermine the second and third pillars with your model and you will take away the future, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Binder and Dr. Jarolim.]] You asked, Mr Gusenbauer and Mr von der SPÖ: What about the harmonisation of pension rights? – Here is the Council of Ministers' presentation, which has been decided today. [[The speaker keeps a copy of it up to date.]] It says that the Federal Government proposes and invites all parties to implement this pension right, this new harmonised pension right, for all groups. I quote – because you have asked the question: The priority objective of the Federal Government is to ensure the pension system based on the payment procedure, based on demographic development. - That's the goal. I invite everyone to cooperate in this harmonisation, and we have set ourselves the goal that we should be until 1. In January 2004 Parliament will be presented with a draft decision-making proposal. [[Abg. Oillinger: Pension insurance do you call that?]] I expect everyone to cooperate. As a parliamentarian and clubman of the Austrian People's Party, I note the following: In this Republic, the laws are still being made by Parliament. In this Republic, too, the political debate – I hope, President Vergebnitsch – will be held in this House. [[Abg. Mandak: But not just!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Can you discuss anything else?]] I call on you, Mr President of the Council, also to take the interest of thousands of workers from whom I have received this signal: Return to the negotiating table, where decisions are made! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr President of the Council! Take not only the one, but both outstretched hands of the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government! [[Some SPÖ representatives each stretch both arms in a defensive way.]] Step into this discussion process! Put your arguments into the discussion! That's the place where there's actually going to be a change. Mr President of the Council! I also say very openly to you: Motivate your colleagues in the Socialist Trade Union Party to find a new trade union motto and not to attach to the old motto, that is: delay, water, prevent. – At least this is not my union, Mr President of the Council, in which I am a member. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I also address the question of political pensions and say: Yes, there must be changes, substantial changes. We are in good conversation in this regard. I think we're trying to reach out for a four-party consensus here. We have reached a fundamental agreement on a number of points – I can say so. We need to clarify some questions in the next few days. I hope and appeal to you that we can achieve a four-party consensus which will be adopted in parallel with the decision-making of the general pension reform here in the House. Everything we demand from people – and we demand something that is true – must ultimately be implemented one too in the field of politics. [[Abg. Oils: One too one?]] One question, Mr Gusenbauer, which you have referred to, is the issue of early pensions. I quote from a broadcast of 17th century. January 2003: SPÖ-chef is committed to letting the early pensions run out. - Quote. What does your model include? – You say, in principle, that it is right to let go of early pensions, but you do not say how or especially when. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: That's incredible!]] They put this somewhere in a fog wall and make a disastrous mistake, which personally – I tell you that openly – disappoints me, because I thought specifically to you that in the phase of the exploratory discussions there was actually the realization that it is necessary to take this step, and now. What motivates you to give up your original concept? Did you leave the courage? – I say to you: It is not responsible to simply take out a core element, just because there is a discussion about it – which is to be held –. They therefore take away a very decisive basis from your own concept. Your concept thus loses any credibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is the same as the question of calculation. You have said in various explanations that it is natural for you to go towards life-long calculation. That's what you say in your model. That is why I do not understand that you are raising criticism of the Federal Government's plans, because we are doing exactly what you think is right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] Interestingly, today you have said in contrast to what is said in various SK broadcasts: Yes, it is right to make this calculation. What we do about the ÖVP – which distinguishes us from your concept – is: We do cover in the calculation process, so that the effects of the calculation can also be tolerated, so that this correct and necessary step takes place in a way that actually takes account of social needs. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. May. Worm]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Gusenbauer! For example, you say – today also in your speech – that you have a problem with changing the amount of increase. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: A upgrade!]] What are you doing? – You write into your concept – I underline this because it is correct –: With 45 years of contribution, there is to be 80 percent net replacement. Whoever divides 80 by 45 will come out, which comes out under the line 1.78. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] This is exactly what the Federal Government is doing: 1.78 percent! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: After Adam Ries.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: folk school!]] But we are doing this in a way that is intrusive for more than three years and therefore also properly set up in the sense of justice, which is a scale that we have. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would therefore call your concept, Mr Gusenbauer, a concept of the question mark – a concept that intervenes in existing pensions in order to endanger the second and third pillars, ladies and gentlemen, and thus the future. And your concept, Mr Gusenbauer, is one that is actually at the expense of young people. [[Abg. Oillinger: Talk about your own concept!]] Write to your own documents You are: Yes, there will be average reductions of 10 and 15 percent, but for later generations. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens]] - That means for the boys today. I quote at the end of this debate. The following: “What Gusenbauer presented now is a blow into the face of the boys – and all those who can only expect a little. Populism (and fear of party friends?) Casters are sad. Re-satting time, Mr Gusenbauer. How about a little fine Eastereria? As a faithful customer, I would be there. I don't have to worry about the future anyway. Or?’ This is not the case, as Michael Häupl would now say, from the “Giftkitchen Lopatka”, but from a “Press” comment by Rainer Nowak. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You have read it yourself, ladies and gentlemen! Or: I find it a very nice characterization of the Gusenbauer model: He wants to take a shower, but he doesn't want to get wet. – This will not work, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The future works as this Federal Government has done: Sustainable, forward-looking and just approach the pension reform now, because it is necessary. Finally, Mr Gusenbauer, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, a quote which I do not wish to hold back from: "It is questionable whether the German chancellor is even half-way to carry out this programme against his own party colleagues. The “pension roby” writers of the local opposition should nevertheless put themselves together with their German party friend on an economic policy piece. The process of economic recognition seems to be at least at the top of the party among the Social Democrats in Germany more than in this country." That's why the concept Schröder means: Courage for change! But you are missing, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e6950	Mr Gusenbauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please repeat the facts to be corrected, compare the facts and observe the time limit! Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e6974	Mr Molterer has claimed that the SPÖ wants to intervene in existing pensions – and in future also in private provision and in the “new settlement”. I'm actually correcting: The SPÖ does not intervene in existing pensions, nor does it intend to intervene in private provision or in the “new settlement”. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But we are very likely to demand a solidarity contribution from people such as Mr Stummful and other pensioners. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Don't you know your own model?]] We raise early pensions when it allows the labour market. And as far as our concept is concerned, you can get a few free follow-up hours from me.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e7024	I call Mr Van der Bellen. The speaking time is still 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e7042	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! An APA issue from today, from 10.27 a.m., states that the Council of Ministers has adopted a legal basis for the procurement of interceptors. And no hour later – at times the Federal Government is really working quickly – the corresponding bill is already in place. That's a very short law, you can even read it out. § 1 consists of two sentences: "The Federal Minister of State Defense is authorized to purchase up to xx million aircraft for the Federation of 18 pieces of airspace surveillance aircraft. € to buy.” – The purchase price is not mentioned. The second sentence is: “The Federal Minister for Finance shall provide financial support.” [[Abg. Ollinger: That's what he likes to do!]] First of all, I would like to say: The timing of this action with the pension cuts is already provocative. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] What doesn't just think of ours? What does every man and woman think about on the street? – For that they have money! - Obviously. [[Abg. Eder: Sure!]] Second comment: Mr Finanzminister! The purchase price is not mentioned. We know about what this will cost; about €2 billion, we say. [[Abg. Oillinger: That would be too cheap!]] – Plus/minus, depending on the equipment and so on. “The Federal Minister for Finance has to provide financial support.” – I must be glad if we are not presented today with a pension law in which lapidar stands: The Federal Minister for Finance has to provide financial support. That's what I thought was unscrupulous. But you can do it with the interceptors. There it is perfectly enough to submit to the Federal Minister for Finance that he should obtain the money. I still remember a few things from last year and from the beginning of this year. Has it not been said that these interception hunters will cost nothing or at least cost nothing during this legislative period? Did it not mean that they will cost very little, if anything, because there is an economic platform – the German Chancellor's idea – which these interceptors will pay? A business platform composed of companies that benefit from the so-called counter-businesses and will therefore be ready – so the concept that has been explained to us has also been publicly presented in this way – to turn this percentage off and buy the interceptors? We have never believed this of the Greens; Neither do you, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP and of the FPÖ. There is nothing here of an economic platform, of any companies participating in the costs, today, next year or sometime, but the Federal Minister for Finance has to provide financial cover. For this, there must be money at all times – according to ÖVP and FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The savings in the pension system, as you call it, the reductions in the pension system, as we prefer: How high will these be? – There has been a gross estimate of plus/minus of € 1 billion by 2006/2007 for the previous measures. [[Abg. Oils: More!]] - Maybe even more. We do not know how the measures you have decided today have an impact. In this respect, you have an information lead. Let's say 2 billion €! This is by chance exactly the same amount that will be spent on the interceptors – without lashing with a eyelash and without worrying about the long-term consequences for the federal budget, about the military necessity and so on. Here we go! I mentioned earlier: One of the difficulties of today's discussion is that ÖVP and FPÖ – at least in part – have much more information than SPÖ and greens. You have decided anything in the Council of Ministers today, we have now heard it orally from you. Yesterday we have heard in rumor what that might be, what has been decided today. [[Call at ÖVP:We will inform you today!]] That is precisely what we do not know. It's true now, whether that's true or not, what you're telling us today. In this context, I am annoyed by a statement by Mr. Vice-Chancellor of 29 February. April, this is today, just like the Council of Ministers decision. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's definitely true!]] Today, Mr Vice-Chancellor said that for all politicians still in the Ural system, the end of time will finally come. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] That's good! We would really support that. [[Abg. Oillinger: Main cleans up – with himself!]] Minister Chief! Mr. Vice-Chancellor Head! If I'm not wrong, you're yourself a politician in the Ural system. That's not your fault, that's what the National Council decided at the time, you said. And for you, the end of time will finally come. That's what you've announced today. [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] How can I understand that? – We Greens voted against with regard to the “Political Pensions-old”. It is only about this, and I personally am really tired of constantly “justifying” pensions – under quotation marks – for others, namely, in the “Uralt system”, as Mr Haupt calls it, existing politicians. [[Abg. Dr. Bleckmann: Why did you agree to this in 1997 when it was decided?]] At that time, we Greens even voted against the transitional arrangements, and the entire green club was transferred to the new system. [[Abg. Dr. Bleckmann: But you agreed!]] The main proposal of the Greens is as follows: All right, let's finally end the rules at the time that a two-class system of politicians has created and continues to maintain, we are doing just as it was decided in 1997! The paid pension contributions of the politicians flow into either the ASVG system or where one is so to speak in the civil profession, and the surplus flows into a self-elected pension fund. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Mr Klubobmann Scheibner is exactly on this line and has also expressed himself publicly accordingly. But I do not notice anything of it in our discussions at Clubobmann level or at other levels, but nothing at all that is made serious with this measure. But that is the central point in my eyes! Even Mr. Vice-Kanzler's head would be of this opinion, otherwise the end of the time for such "Uraltpolitan pensions" could not come for "Political pensions-old". Everything else is up-to-date, is symptom correction. The increase in the solidarity contribution is natural, the increase in the retirement age is of course – but the key point is that! Ladies and gentlemen! If you propose measures that, as you know from appropriate case studies, people who have to expect 700 € or 800 € pension next year would reduce their pension by 10, 20 percent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It may be that your actions today reduce this reduction to 15 or 10 or 5 percent, but I say to you: As an official, I have a higher pension to expect, and I can't imagine a political party issuing pensions of 600, 700, 800, 1 000 € for the short term! [[New condolences with the greens.]] It should have been a general line of pension reform not to affect these pensions, of which there is no way to live. Those who refer to a "Uraltpolitan pension", as Mr Vice-Chancellor's Head so aptly called, are an old-fashioned giant, I am sorry to say. Women rarely appear in them, so I don't mention them either. They are found in the old system, but essentially it is a men's giant. I bring a few examples: Mr. Vice-Kanzler Head: approximately €12 000 Pension claim, Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel: about €12 000 Pension claim, Mr. Fassl Abend: around €12 000 Pension claim, Mr. State Secretary Kukacka: about €12 000 or a little less pension claim, Mr. Stummvoll: about €12 000 Pension claim. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: What does a university professor actually get?]] It's kind of kind of up your ass! - Why? [[Abg. May. Molterer: But you didn't mention me now!]] - I didn't mention you now. In the ASVG system, which you now draw so intensively, the lid of my knowledge is around €2 300. In the case of these "Ural Policy Pensions", as Mr. Vice-Chancellor's main words, the lid is almost €13 000 – not €2 300, but almost €13 000. Not just that! This is the lid for an additional board, ladies and gentlemen. I trust to bet that each of the people mentioned here was also insured separately either as an official or in the ASVG system or in the GSVG system or elsewhere. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: How much does a university professor receive?]] Maybe you'll keep me in mind that I'm a university professor in my civil profession. That's your right, but I don't think it's honorable. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: What does a university professor receive? 100 percent!]] I hope as an official, if you do not prevent this, I will take a pension, but I am in the new political system. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: 100 percent of your last relationship!]] I cannot respond to these calls because I hardly understand them acoustically. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Yes, I can imagine that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: If you sit in the glass house, don't throw stones!]] For the sake of completeness: Mr Gusenbauer gets an ASVG-pension. This did not prevent him from becoming chairman of the SPÖ – because of incentive effects or anything else; at least I took this from the newspaper. My colleague, Oellinger, a social expert, will receive an ASVG-pension. This has not prevented him from becoming a prominent politician. I want to say: We don't need these old loads! I very much hope that we will achieve a four-party consensus on this point. Mr Scheibner and I are already in favour of this. [[Abg. Scheibner nods consenting.]] But you are, Mr Scheibner, in a government whose other partners, the ÖVP, clearly do not want this. Even from the SPÖ I haven't heard yet that they want it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The opposition is also split on this question!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! To date, you have not been able to explain to us or to the public one of the problems related to this pension reform: Why, now, to the greatest extent, when, according to your own statements in autumn, the big pension reform, the harmonization of pension systems, which will be 30, 50, yes 100 years, will come? Wouldn't logic have been exactly the opposite? Would it not have been logical to introduce the great model at first – perhaps there would even have been a consensus, because the long-term necessary parts of the reform in this House actually have a great degree of agreement – and then to consider how to get there, how the necessary transitional arrangements should be over five, ten, 20, 30 years? You could have understood that. In the “Kurier” Mr. Stanzel rightly asks – I quote – the question: ‘Why are now highly simplified reforms in all pension systems (ASVG, GSVG, officials, railways, etc.) if, in half a year, the next reform is to come with a harmonisation of all systems?’ It really doesn't understand! This also leads in detail to reforms or measures that are contradictory in themselves. What does it make sense not only to operate on the supplements and supplements at early pensions, but also to specify the increase in the age of retirement if, as announced, the free choice of retirement is to be ensured in the large model within a certain interval – we say: between 60 and 70 – again? – This has no meaning at all and means only a difficulty for those who are going to retire now or soon or in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that we need a pension reform in the long term – at the height of the problems then 2030, 2040 – does not challenge anyone, but a reduction of pensions at the present time is not fiscal and is not required for any other reason. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we do not need is a sudden destruction of the life-planning of people who now, next year, wanted to retire in three years or in five on certain conditions and have set themselves on it. There was no need to put the life plans of these people in this form on the head – even according to your own data and documents. In particular, there was no need to cut the pension rights of women so asymmetrically, I say, unevenly disproportionately compared to those of men. Then why did you do this? There was no need for this. They themselves say – and this corresponds to your own data, and it has already been mentioned today – that the Federal Pension Insurance grant will fall slightly in the coming years compared to the social product. Of course, in the long run we will have to do something, and for that we also have time. ==References====External links== ==References== January 2005 will come into force, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, if the problem reaches its peak in 2020, 2030 and 204. This pension reform is also not enough to address the demographic problem we face, namely the increase in people over 65 years of age and the decrease in the number of persons aged 15 to 64. It's not enough just to do something in the pension system. We also need to do a lot in the education system. We have not only for older workers, but also for young people and apprentices to take into account that this is the decisive investment for the future, and at the same time, if they increase productivity, growth, the financing problem in 2020, 2040. In view of the fact that you cannot explain the arbitrary nature of these measures, what cases of problem arise: One loses 10 percent, the other loses 20 percent, the third loses 40 percent, depending on the accumulation of the individual measure, I must say: There is no system behind it! Even if it is now on average less, the arbitrariness of these measures cannot be explored. These measures also involve the lowest pensions. I can only be surprised how the former “party of the little people” has allowed this in the negotiations with the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Dec Women's pensions are also affected by these measures. But what we still do not have is a uniform, fair, harmonised, above all a transparent and comprehensible, sustainable pension system of the future. You only announced this for the autumn or for the next year. According to your own statements, it is. In view of this problem, ladies and gentlemen, of the arbitrary nature of the reduction in the pension, given the failure to take account of in particular of the lowest pensions and also of the women's pensions, we are forced to make a mistrust against the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in connection with his approach to the reform of the pension system. As you know, this request is formally brief, and it reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] That was my closing word.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e7436	The motion for a resolution just read on mistrust pursuant to Article 74 Federal Constitutional Law is properly signed and is under negotiation. Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker. Same time of speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e7457	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The statements made today by Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors and the debate that has now been held should actually help to give an exchange of views on the various concepts of sustainable rehabilitation and safeguarding pension provision and our pensions. [[Abg. Oils: Exchange of views?]] Mr Oellinger! I hope you will also bring something from the concept of the Greens here; Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen has failed to present us with the concept of the Greens. [[Abg. Oils: No problem!]] I assume or hope that there is such a concept. [[Abg. Oillinger: We negotiated it with the ÖVP! You weren't there yet!]] Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen! You said you couldn't go into intermediate calls because you didn't understand them. I would like to tell you the call that has been made in relation to the different levels of pensions. He said that a university professor could retire with 100 percent of his last relationship. I don't know if that's true, but if it's true, you'll be happy. But this too cannot be compared with the retirement of other workers. I was really amazed about the talk of the SPÖ Klubobmann Gusenbauer – he's not in the hall right now. I was surprised that his speech was suddenly finished, that he suddenly finished his remarks without doing what we actually expected of him, namely finally imagining us his concept, which has been announced for days. For days now, we have been anxious to learn what the great Social Democratic Party has to offer for the sustainable protection of pensions. First of all, it was said that although the SPÖ had a concept, it was not known because it was too complicated and the population would only be confused. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No, no!]] Keywords: People are too stupid to understand – apparently according to the SPÖ. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Then one said from the sides of the SPÖ: We already have it, but the experts still have to calculate it. - Good. Then it was said that the Bureau would present it, but we still do not want to present it to the public. Then some points have been made to us, especially that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, want to intervene in existing pensions. – This is very interesting for us, ladies and gentlemen, for we say: No matter in which pension system – except where the politician is – someone is, in existing pensions should not be intervened, because the generation that is in retirement today has built this country! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] These people have deserved to be able to spend their evening in safety, and they should not be insecured by such a discussion. Where we want to intervene in existing pensions, ladies and gentlemen, this is the pension area of politicians, because there are different systems. I give the exception to Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen Right, when he says there are massive injustices in these systems that there are privileges for old politicians who are already in retirement. There should be high solidarity contributions, double-digit deductions. I hope that we can also do so in the direction that active politicians who are in the old system should be transferred to a fair system and that those politicians who are not prepared to raise at least the retirement age to 65 as in the ASVG and have to make the corresponding reductions. That is exactly where we want to intervene in existing rights, ladies and gentlemen. A consensus can be found in this regard. [[Abg. Binder: Trust Protection!]] Yes, there is to be confidence protection! But the protection of confidence you, Mrs Colleague, for your caste, for the politicians now, we do not demand it! We demand the protection of trust for all other pensioners, where you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, want to intervene in existing rights. We don't want that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But we didn't expect anything else! You've always said you can't discuss. Let us sit together and try to make a reform together! [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Here's the High House, here's the legislator, here you can submit your proposals if they exist. But unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, your proposal is to intervene in existing pensions, all that you have brought in here so far. They want pension reductions from 10 to 15 percent. [[Abg. Oillingers: You're no longer on the trail, that's more of the trail!]] That's all we've heard from you so far. That's very little. It is better that you are dealing with the reform of the Federal Government and the government parties and with the amendments that have now been adopted, which have been necessary. Then you'll see that's a good reform. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Even the real experts, such as Professor Marin, say that these amendments to the assessment draft are sensational. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Oils.]] And I have to say, Some measures are more generous than even the experts considered possible. This is the policy of the Austrian Federal Government: to say openly and honestly that systems must be changed, but these changes must be made socially and fairly! You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, are also invited to participate in this – instead of having major discussions in public, to assure the population of wanting to intervene in existing pensions, but not to make proposals for a sustainable rehabilitation and safeguarding of old age benefits. [[Abg. Oillingers: Upgrading factors!]] This is the policy of opposition! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If this is maintained, then we cannot involve you, because where no enforceable proposals are on the table, there we cannot allow them to be incorporated into legislative instruments. [[Abg. Oillinger: Please change the upgrade factors! That's the first proposal!]] We will have the opportunity to discuss the proposals in the second part of the debate. Now I have to finish, unfortunately, because the news is on the program, but Scheibner, the second, comes in a quarter hour, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oils: Shame!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e7680	I am doing what the National Council itself seems to be doing, namely interrupting the meeting. [[Members rise from their seats and send to leave the meeting room]] I announce to Mr Scheibner that he will speak again at 1:15 a.m., with a remaining speaking time of 14 minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e7714	At the agreed time, I will resume the interrupted meeting, which was interrupted for the purposes of ORF's midday news, and may ask Mr Scheibner to continue his speech. The clock is set at 14 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e7738	Mr President. High house! – Mr deputies, it is good if you listen to me, but I would have liked to have discussed with your clubman Gusenbauer here, because as a debate speaker he has set out the SPÖ line, but he is still not there. [[Abg. Riepl: (on empty series of the Freeman wise) Where is your group?]] I assume that the Members of the Liberals and the ÖVP will come back more quickly from the news-related break than your clubman, but that is a shame because we wanted to discuss with you the measures of the pension reform. [[Abg. Eder: If you keep talking...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The fact is that, for many years now, in democratic countries, especially in the socially developed countries, there has been a debate on pension provision, particularly on the guarantee of this pension. And I think we can be proud that Austria is one of those countries that have the best pensions for the older generation worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen! This system is currently practically exclusively designed in accordance with the principle of payment. But there is no need to be a professor, no expert, and no mathematician to know that this system of payment only works for so long as the relationship between those people who are in the work process and those who are in retirement is a balanced one. We all know that in recent years, this relationship has come into a massive state of decline. While, on average, a worker in Austria retired for over 42 years in the work process and thereafter for 8.8 years, an average worker was in the work process for only 37 years in 2001, but was retired for about 20 years. It is a positive development that more and more people are living longer and longer in retirement. But on the other hand, there is the negative demographic development that there are fewer and fewer births and fewer and fewer young people – to guarantee this system of payments – are entering the work process. In view of this development, there are two possibilities, ladies and gentlemen: Either one goes on to make small reforms and referendums, and the population promises that nothing will change in truth and that the system will somehow be eligible for funding. [[Abg. Oillingers: But you are already making two reforms within one year! Is this a small or a big one now?]] We have already discussed what it would mean if there were no measures in the existing system: The contribution rates should be increased by 53 percent, the pensions should be reduced by 45 percent and the retirement age should be increased by 11 years! [[Abg. Oils: That's what you're doing!]] That's not in the sense of a generation contract! This would not be in the sense of a secure co-existence of generations, for which the principle should continue to apply, that the age group in the profession is responsible for the training of young people and also ensures a guarantee with their amounts for the provision of old age. It is therefore clear that we must go in the direction of a three-pillar model, ladies and gentlemen, in order to give the 20-, 30- and 40-year-olds, in particular, a perspective for secure retirement. It would be easy to say, like others in the past, Mr Ollinger: All this is unpleasant, we do not assume this responsibility, it has the next ten to 20 years. – That would be easy, and so easily did the predecessors of this government. At that time, one has even tried to fight with the pensioners! I remember the Vranitzky letters, in which it was practically explained: If the SPÖ chooses, then everything remains good and beautiful with the pensions; if others come to the government, then there are cuts. A few days after the election, the SPÖ then implemented the reductions in the pension system, interventions in existing pensions, i.e. what you now have in your concepts. That's not what we want, ladies and gentlemen. We say openly and honestly, there is a guarantee for all those who are now in retirement. They are not affected by the reforms we are now planning, except for the politicians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But a medium- to long-term change to a three-pillar model – with harmonisation of all pension systems, the abolition of all special pension rights and a uniform pension system for public services, for the private sector and all other areas, including social security, chambers and interest groups – is a just system that demands the population of us. We also stand for this, as well as for the long-term creation of a single pension account. This is also an important measure to create more transparency for the amounts paid and the pensions that can then be consumed. This does not mean that the current system should be changed from one pillar to three equal columns. There is no question that public provision must continue to be at the heart of pensions in the future. But the necessary restrictions in the state system, which have to be made on the basis of demographic development, are to be compensated by the second pillar, by the pension funds. [[Abg. Oillingers: The necessary restrictions, not the necessary ones!]] We have made a direction-setting decision for this second pillar with the “handling-up” of 100 percent of workers in the future, because each worker can then decide for himself whether he would like to invest these amounts in this second pillar. Harmonisation of the system and the creation of a single pension account is, of course, a medium to long-term measure, but the Federal Government has already taken the first important step in this direction. For the transitional period, measures should be taken to ensure that the actual retirement age is aligned with the statutory one, but with acceptable transitional provisions. Ten years of transition, ladies and gentlemen – I think that is enough time to look forward to this change. The corresponding conversion time as a transition for the single pension account in a time frame of 25 years – this is a sufficient transitional period. In social terms, it is important for us and free-lance programming that we have provided for a cover-up of the discounts that are possible through the extended calculation. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also of particular importance to us that there are special rules for certain groups: for example, for families and for child-educated women, so that these are not affected in a negative way by the reforms, but quite the contrary. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! As you have criticized this in the previous debate and have presented yourself as the representatives of women and especially of the family, I wonder: Where, in the 30 years of social-democratic government participation, has there been such massive improvements for families and for women as under this government? I recall, for example, the childcare allowance that you have rejected from SPÖ and still criticize today, although it represents a massive improvement for women and for the family. [[Abg. May. Worm: Does child rearing concern men too?]] Or: I would like to remind you of the improved billing of child rearing times. – All these are things you could have done in 30 years. But the families and the child-educated women have not been of great importance to you. But we will also continue this principle in this pension reform. However, the short-term measures you criticised will also be suspended, for example for long-term insured persons or for those who work in difficult occupations and whom we guarantee that they will be able to retire at 55 years without notice. [[Deputies Öllinger and Dr. Glavischnig: That's not true!]] – These are all measures we can and should discuss here! If you say that the budget benefits from the short-term action, I tell you, ladies and gentlemen: The budget does not benefit, but it benefits workers, the population and also pensioners in that country! If you take the total budget here, then you know that on 1st. A first but noticeable stage of tax relief for the population was decided in January 2004. This will affect the small earners, especially the pensioners, because income is tax-free up to 1 000 € per month, regardless of whether active relationship or pension. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: But only 500 million €, not 2 billion!]] These are the reforms of this federal government: socially acceptable and fair. I would like you to work together to bring in your counter-proposals. But so far you haven't heard of it. Mr Gusenbauer is back now, so I can tell him personally. – Mr Gusenbauer, I have been waiting for you to finally present your comprehensive reform concept here, which you have so long abstained from us. But we haven't heard anything. That is why we, as the responsible government parties, are only left to decide on these reforms as we have prepared them. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Four country representatives are against it! What about the four countries that were against it?]] But the offer remains: that you participate in the harmonisation and creation of a single pension account, because that will be the difficult reforms, for which the social partners are invited. This would enable us to create a system change for the next 20, 25 years. Hopefully you intend to bring in your ideas. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I only hope one, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not want to compensate for the lack of ideas by other measures. [[Abg. Oils: Oh!]] What is this, Mr. Oillinger? What if we do not bring in the reform proposals here and say that we have them, but we do not want to confuse the people – that is what the SPÖ said – and therefore do not want to reveal all these things, but on the other hand we are threatened with fighting measures? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That was all presented yesterday! Didn't you look after me?]] One even falls into a certain kind of war rhetoric, including by social-democratic trade unionists. Before we have a presentation in Parliament, we are already threatened, first strike measures are announced and partly implemented, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Parnigoni: It was a unanimous decision! Walch voted!]] - Yes, fine! You decide strikes before you know what you have to fight against to speak in your Jargon. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the tradition we have here in Austria! We want the political discourse! This is to be held here in the Austrian National Council, it is to be held in the public debate, but not on the street! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The people should not suffer disadvantages just because their politically oriented trade unionists want to block everything. This is not the process that the people expect from us and above all from you. The few proposals of the SPÖ, which have become known, have been assessed accordingly by the experts. This is a shift to eternity, which is an attempt to shower without becoming wet, a fairness model that is only suitable for the May gatherings. – These are not political assessments, but assessments by experts and journalists. And Mr Gusenbauer was even advised to open an easteria – but I do not want to go that far, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Very funny!]] I would just like you to put the energy you are currently using in political agitation, in the preparation of strikes, in the preparation of measures to block public life, to build on a long-term, just pension reform. Then you would also be a credible partner in the negotiations. If you do not, then the people will see that only and alone the government parties take responsibility – even if this may be unpopular – for the present generations, but also responsibility for future generations, because we will also have to answer whether and to what extent future generations can spend their lifetime in social prosperity.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e8012	The speaking times of the next four speakers shall be 10 minutes each. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The clock is set to 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e8033	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Scheibner, you could be answered: Correction is announced, no cosmetics! This is also true in today's papers – if you already quote newspapers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would be glad if today we could actually offer the many young people in the gallery a discussion about a comprehensive reform, not about short-term money-raising actions. This is precisely what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If we are rightly confronted with the question again and again: What concepts are there? Then every serious man has to ask himself the question – even the population, including women, no question; the gender problem is certainly closer to us from the SPÖ than some others –: [[Interlocutory calls at the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Which You really want to achieve the goal? – This question needs to be answered in a serious way. Is it the goal we are now experiencing, a short-term fund-raising action, or is the objective a comprehensive pension reform? – The latter also requires the participation of all the population groups. It cannot be assumed that if the social partners offer their hands, they are told: No, you're not there to hear from the Federal Chancellor five minutes later: We're stretching our hands. – There is no just-in-time social partnership! If you want to, we will not jump, but only if we are convinced that we can contribute to a better solution together. Take note of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: We need just-in-time solutions!]] Mr Molterer, you are confirming that there is no comprehensive approach. Where is the comprehensive approach of the coalition government? I ask you: Where is the comprehensive approach of the coalition government? [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] That's comprehensive? – That is not comprehensive at all! This is a short-term money acquisition action! There are no answers to longer-term problems! [[New congratulations to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Is it not, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, that your Secretary-General said a few days ago: The aim of the pension reform is also to save 1 billion? This is necessary in order to make the big tax reform! – For example, after the exchange rate: Give me your wallet, and I'll give it back to you half empty! – That cannot really be the goal of a pension reform! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And you're making a new attempt to split the extra-party union union union. You won't succeed! Today, too, there has been a statement by the GÖD, which is particularly close to you politically, which says that it confesses itself to the joint activities of the ÖGB. – So, as well as Mr Tancsits and others, stop saying that this is a social-democratic action! – I’m in favour of social democracy, I’m proud of it! But I am also a candidate for the extra-party trade union alliance and its measures, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Is it not true that Mr Fassleven asked a few months ago: What should it make sense to raise the statutory retirement age to 67 years when the businesses throw people out at the age of 56? It would be exciting to know, for example, Mr Bartenstein: What is the age structure in your company? How many people over 60 are busy there? - Or: It would also be exciting to know with Mr Prinzhorn: How many people over 60 are employed in his company? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Almost everyone will be over 60!]] Or is this true of the fact that industry's businesses are increasingly seeking to get rid of older people? – This is a broadcast of the industrial association of the previous week. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: That's just not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! They have no answer in this concept – – to the problem of 120 000 people who will not find employment through measures of this approach on the labour market. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: But you have no idea!]] You have no answer to how you really want to finance the unemployment benefit, as you mentioned here. You don't have these answers! You also have no answer to how you really want to finance the replacement times – for the time of the federal army, civil service or also for child rearing. With this, you will be burdening the pension system, which you really want to make easier by 1 billion without having an answer to it! Is it not so, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, that your concepts have been included until recently – you will see whether this is actually true – that you want to reduce pensions by 13.5 percent in 2005? – I emphasize: We're talking about cuts in pensions! Do you know how high the average pension is? At least I assume you know: It is 1 100 €, less than 700 € for women! And that's where you're talking about cuts in these pensions? [[Abg. May. Molterer: According to SPÖ concept by 10 to 15 percent!]] That's where you talk about the second and third pillars. It would be exciting to hold a debate with all of you in this House on what you really understand under the second and third pillars! This is because there is always a mixture of terms: of employee care, self-sufficiency and the operating board, which is offered. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not at the SPÖ, they cut everything!]] If we talk about age, we talk about the second and third pillars! Faith You are, in fact, aware of the fact that the discharge, which constitutes a maximum annual fee, can actually compensate the losses you are making up for the future pensioners with your current concept? An annual fee does not catch what you expect of pensioners in the future, ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition. When we talk about occupational pensions: How many are there? – If you are talking about processing, all right, then contact the Chamber of Commerce immediately and tell her that 1.53 percent of contributions are not sufficient. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: There is none in Donawitz that you abolished!]] There you will have to deliver at least 7 percent of contributions so that this can be compensated in the pension. How many occupational pensions are there? – I don’t dissociate at all! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr Vergestnitsch, have you forgotten that you have contributed to this? Do not distance yourself from your own success!]] But the success that we have achieved was to ensure the settlement for all, and not to finance a reduction in your pension. That is the clear answer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You yourself say, even in your explanatory remarks – that is not a trade union publication – that the forced later retirement can reduce the losses. – Due to the almost forced later retirement? What is the answer to the problems of the 120 000 people who now have no answer? Where, in reality, is the concept of this federal government to keep people in employment longer? Where is the concept that leads to the fact that you are not being removed at 55 years of age with a golden handshake, just so that the bill of personnel savings is true? – All these are not satisfactory answers. It is also not a satisfactory answer if two-sided advertisements are now advertised for this: “Millions need competent advice for their private provision.” – We confess to the first pillar financed as a basic pillar, but not only as alms, but as a guarantee of the standard of living! That must be our approach! And if someone has money for the second and third pillars, then he should do it, then he should invest in these models! But the people who need to find their reach with an average of €1 400 net now will not be able to give you an answer to what they can actually afford for a second and third pillar. And the economy won't help them! From there, I am only always hearing that the additional wage costs are too high. The economy will not secure this – or are you prepared to finance private pension schemes for all employees in your company, Mr Prinzhorn? I emphasize, for all employees, and not just for a few people who are pleased with you? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: I found my own solution for everyone in my company!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have the following situation: What is now on the table requires a detailed analysis. We will not give answers to it in a quick shoot procedure, but we will analyze the serious nature of trade unions. However, we will not be hindered if it seems to us right to take action. We recognise democracy, decisions of the government, decisions of politics here in the house we recognize as well! But we also recognize our right to act against something that is not right, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That must be our goal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You will not experience that we do something of jux and tolling, just because you don't accept an offer, on Thursday last week said to us: You can talk with us, but we're building the first floor, and if the house has a foundation, we're not interested. You can talk later, maybe we'll also build over the first house. The Federal Chancellor today said: If a roof tile is loose, you have to be careful that it doesn't rain into the house! – Mr Bundeskanzler – also figuratively said: But it's not enough to clean up the basement so that the water stays in the house. We must ensure that a foundation is created for people, young or old, who have the true character of a pension reform and not that of a pure money acquisition action – for money, which is then intended to be used for interception hunters, for tax reforms or anything else. You don't have us in your ranks. You have us in your ranks when it comes to comprehensive reforms, with all parties, with the social partners, but not in this form. Take note of this, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e8265	The next speaker is Mr Tancsits. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e8284	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Replicated to Mr. Vergestnich, who kindly quoted me, before I spoke: Over an average income, an average earnings a working life long, 35 years, the annual income is about 10 percent of the net replacement rate. – Become me You do not believe this, please ask the Wiener Städtisch and the Bawag, on whose calculations I call here! [[Abg. Parnigoni: But that can't be true!]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: I didn't understand! Explain this once!]] But now on the topic of pension reform. The need is actually undisputed. A cornerstone that expires the premature retirement pension,... [[further calls to the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e8332	I call Mr Tancsits.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e8348	... was stimulated by me for the first time in 1997. The government of that time did not trust in the implementation. In my opinion, this shows what it is like if we do not dare to implement necessary measures. Following Mr Gusenbauer's approach and waiting for 2010 would mean that the approximation would not have to be carried out in ten years, but in three years. But we don't want to. People have a right to be able to adapt to legal provisions in their life planning for five to ten years in advance. The second key point of today's draft is to try to achieve greater justice through a longer evaluation of total working hours, i.e. through the so-called calculation. In this too, if I may question this account, we are largely of one opinion, because 80 per cent after 45 years, which means that the income of life and the reduction of the increase amount to 1.78 per cent. [[Abg. Silhavy: 80 percent of what, Mr Tancsits?]] But I admit, ladies and gentlemen: The way to the presentation of the draft in the current version was not undisputed. Of course, this reform work has been questioned by various stakeholders and, of course, several measures have been required to do so. It has also changed a lot compared to the sent assessment draft, and some may still be in parliamentary treatment. I think that the representatives of employees of the Austrian People's Party, including those of the liberals, have also contributed to these talks and negotiations and today presents a draft as the basis for parliamentary treatment, which, for example, has characterized Mr Bernd Marin in the "Mitagsjournal" as follows – I quote from the APA –: It is ‘positively surprised at the extent of the reliefs’ compared to the assessment draft. Much more than 30 percent of the originally planned savings would no longer be successful. The criticism was apparently ‘more than fruit’. The reliefs are much more generous than required by many experts.” – Well, expert opinions change there and there. [[Abg. Oils: I guess you can say that!]] I quote: “The ‘error’ of the last pension reform, that 80 percent of the basis will be reached after 40 years and not only after 45 years, will now be reduced.” Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to address a particular area of these necessary changes, because I have repeatedly taken a position in the discussions over the last few weeks. I am concerned with the preservation, yes, strengthening the family-political positive manuscript of this federal government and this government cooperation. In addition to the reduction of losses required for all important and especially female labour biographies due to the calculation of 3.5, 7 and 10 percent – possibly printed posters, broadcasts about how we heard early today, losses of 36 percent and similar are therefore maculature – there are three specific measures for parents: for the first three years deduction from the calculation period per child, second, a corresponding increase in pension-enhancing child rearing times – both retroactively for children born before 2000 – and third for 24 months pension-based child-education periods for the future. Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, what does the SPÖ design look like? – It contains the same mistake as in the context of child care, namely: only to recognize the fact of parenthood financially when it was worked before! [[Abg. Silhavy: That's not true! You didn't understand!]] For all those who were about free servants who did not work before, whether they were still in the system for 25, 30 years, no recognition. To that end, I say: This is unsocial and not to do with us! We are worth the same amount for each child's pension. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to dedicate a few more words to the SPÖ concept. They have left it – I understand – largely untreated. [[towards SPÖ]] How can we understand this? After 2010 we start!Unknown term type: "%s".? Does that mean that the age of entry will be increased within three years? Or last Saturday's report to the labour market will be taken into account: How does that agree with the principle of trust? Is it then decided on the basis of labour market statistics when you can retire? What, for example, does it look like on the Vienna labour market? Will you – in view of the well-known performance of the Vienna labour market – retire in Vienna earlier than in other federal states? – All of this does not conform to our principles! Another word for the second and third pillars. – Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! They have decided to “represent” the employee care. In September 2002, they decided to provide for the future. Does your today's rejection of this complementary second and third pillar mean that you are not only going behind the reforms that climate and hostash have taken care of, but also call into question the working period Gusenbauer I and want to withdraw these decisions as well? It can't be possible that you want to put those people who we have opened up additional opportunities for the future in turn in agreement?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] According to Marin, our proposals and measures – and I think that I can say good conscience – are a good basis for further negotiations. Many of my previous speakers said it: We invite everyone to participate in the implementation in order to give the people in employment, those in front of the pension and the confidence in the pension and to give the young a perspective for a reasonable pension provision.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e8436	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e8454	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner! You have demanded that the political discourse be held here in the House of Lords. Is that so? [[Abg. Scheibner: I've been waiting for your proposals! They didn't come!]] Is the political discourse taking place, that at the beginning of the session, a budget-accompanied law with 91 revisions will be transmitted to us? A revision of this concerns the far-reaching change to the pension law which is now under way for a few hours, which we will be discussing later in the Committee on Budgets for a few hours, and then we will be able to adopt it in plenary at the beginning of June. Is this your idea of political discussion about far-reaching, deep into the life and future of young people, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner? Is that your idea? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Our idea, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner, looks different. Our idea, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner – we have also tried to clarify this in the government negotiations with the ÖVP – would be the following: Take the time! Take the time it takes to create a sustainable change in the pension system that is sustainable for the future, but based on the principle of social justice! That takes time. Time – and that can't mean: discuss once in the Committee, discuss once in plenary, then vote in June, and the Gaudee is over. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not what anyone says!]] That can't be it, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner! Take the time it takes! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This can also mean that we will not be done until the next year. All parties should have the possibility of all associations having the opportunity to participate in it, to have the opportunity to participate in it, as well as the citizen and the citizen. I have a lot of sympathy for this: All should have the opportunity to understand the basic principles of a pension reform, to understand and to say, or to say no, if necessary. But with your attack-like concept, people take this opportunity to participate! A quick scream, and then it's over. – That’s your concept, but that’s an authoritarian political understanding. This does not correspond to the worst form of major pension reforms in other European countries. Whether in Switzerland or Sweden: If there are to be major changes, there is a need for the approval of the major parties and associations. Then people need to be adequately explained what it is all about and why it is necessary. – But you didn’t do that! Yes, we Greens too say it needs changes in the pension system. And I say to that, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, because you asked us today to discuss our own pension concepts, that of the Social Democrats, about that of the Greens: I would very much like the Federal Government to explain its pension concept. What we have is a pension insurance law, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, and you yourself have announced that the actual change, the harmonisation of pension systems, will take place in autumn. - Where's your concept for this? Did you reveal this to us today? - No! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That is, we are now discussing a pension insurance reform with far-reaching changes, but as your future concept looks, you will not reveal that. [[Abg. Scheibner: You didn't listen!]] But you want to discuss the concepts of the opposition parties. We have tried to discuss this in the negotiations with the ÖVP, and this concept not only means ensuring the existence of old age, but also that the federal grant for pension systems will not go down to zero and under zero as in your concept, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer – I will explain it to you – but also that the federal government, as well as the countries that also bear pension expenses for its national staff, will retain the level of subsidies they have today. [[Abg. Wattaul: Under zero goes as well?]] Not anymore, but keep it! [[Abg. May. Molterer: We even increase it!]] Mr Klubobmann Molterer, you are the Upper Austrian and will therefore perhaps believe more than I am in the Office of the Upper Austrian Government or the Statistical Department. I will now show you what the Office of the Upper Austrian Government has calculated for your pension reform. [[The speaker shall keep up-to-date a graphic of the Office of the Upper Austrian Government and shall explain on the basis of this:]] These are the expenses without pension reform. Let's start with the period 2003 to 2007: 4.3% of GDP, but not only for social security pensions, but also for civil servants' pensions. After presentation of the Office of the Upper Austrian Government – you will probably believe this – this share is falling – without reform! – in the period 2008 to 2012 to 3.4 percent, then slightly increases to 3.6 percent and reaches 4.7 percent in the period 2018 to 2022. Then there is an increase, and it is precisely what we should discuss, because this increase in the period 2020 to 2040 will not be feasible by means that the federal government will then have at its disposal. What are you doing? – This is also calculated by the Office of the Upper Austrian Government; Your reform, without the cosmetic corrections: They start with 3.7 percent in the period 2003 to 2007, lower the federal subsidies for both pension systems to 0.85 percent, and then, in the periods 2013 to 2017 and 2018 to 2022, it remains at minus 0.27 percent. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer! Would I now draw a graphic for the ASVG, where, do you think, would the ASVG lie? – At least minus 5 percent! That means nothing else, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, but that according to your concept – and that is the actual tragedy – the vast majority of social insurance providers from 2020 onwards, which are included in the ASVG, all previous federal grants will also be paid for the other pension systems. There's a minute. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's just grotesque wrong!]] You must look at the figures calculated by the Office of the Upper Austrian Government, then perhaps you would not be able to see whether the level of robbery in the pensions you are now responsible for, Mr Klubobmann Molterer! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you know how much more the federal government pays in 2006? He will pay more than € 2 billion!]] Mr Klubobmann Molterer, I have 10 minutes of speaking time and not 20 minutes like you, so I have to limit myself. I agree, Mr Molterer, that there is a need for measures to ensure pensions. But why can't you go around this differently? – First of all, the big concept and, within the framework of a large concept, the pension scheme. That would be a step forward. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Some remarks still, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer: 680 € is the average pension for women. From 2028 onwards, your concept will no longer cover the losses; up to that time, a maximum of 10 percent. But that also means that you admit that the losses are higher than 10 percent, otherwise you don't need to cover them in the transition with 10 percent. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Should we take the lid away or what?]] But that also means that the losses will be higher than 10 percent from 2028 on. And this will affect women in particular. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] I'm surprised by the short memory of Professor Marin. He said a few weeks ago that the non-estimation of the upgrading factors was cold expropriation. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Mag. Chief.]] You have not planned anything in connection with the upgrading factors, and that's why your design is still a cold expropriation, a pension robbery to the younger generations, but especially to women. And that is irresponsible!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e8673	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by honourable Members, friends and friends is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e8694	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate is already very interesting. If you look who screams loudest in this house, then you have to say actually those who have caused this system. [[Call to the SPÖ and the Greens: The Walch!]] But I am particularly pleased that some here are already delving in. It seems that a certain change of mind has taken place in some minds. All of a sudden, the paper has been read. Sensation! Mr Vergestnitsch has even said: precisely analysed. Dear Fritz, thank you for that! Now you're putting yourself back on the side of the working people. The ÖGB, the SPÖ, the Greens, all in this House, all, across the party borders, have said that we must make a reform. The SPÖ has done nothing in the last decades in terms of pension – only privileges founded. There is, as it were, a three-class pension system in Austria. There are non-privileged persons, namely ASVG insured persons, there are seniors in high officials' positions – the small gender, the small postmaster does not really deserve much and only receives a minimum pension – and when the politicians' pensions were abolished in 1997, the SPÖ left a back door open and said: Wait! For the former members of the government as well as national council and country council members, there is a need to maintain something, for example, a payment of a fee, the guarantee of corresponding pensions and much more. You would have had the opportunity in 1997 to cross the old system as did many liberals. Why didn't you do that? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Stadler, right?]] Just preach and then don't do it – I have to tell you, it won't play now! A concept has now been drawn up by the coalition. I'm not quite happy with some regulations either, but I'm quite sure: If we want to secure a pension for our offspring for our young people, then we have to do something now! For me, the basic requirement for this is the creation of a single pension system in Austria. [[Call the SPÖ: You cooked them clean!]] It's coming in the near future. Until autumn, all those present are invited, including the social partners... – Go, colleague, don't shout so much, that does nothing! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You could lose your voice once. Be a Democrat, as we are usually used to, and let me speak out! [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] I'm upset when a person speaks male sex, but even more so when women do. [[Call out the outrage at the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I really have to ask you: Compare the draft sent in review with the proposal now before us! – This one again carries a liberal manuscript. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Free handwriting is the grinding trail!]] What has been spread to the public? – In the context of part-time retirement, the draft assessment includes the fact that, if the pension age is not reached and the early retirement age is not reached, unemployment benefit plus 20 percent is paid. - No, it's not! Please read! It says that existing contracts do not intervene. All those who signed the contract before the 1st. After the expiry of the contract, the pension may be terminated on 4 April 2003. Next situation: The famous “hackler rule” – an unknown name – the early retirement pension for long years remains until 31. December 2006 unchanged – with all Drum and Dran. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call to the SPÖ and the Greens: "Wonderful"!]] Our Minister of Social Affairs does not in vain mean that he has done a lot during the ÖVP FPÖ government in Austria. [[Abg. Reheis: What, for example?]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Minister for Social Insurance!]] Today, although someone has attached the child money or the “handling new ” to his flags, that is not true. – I can only say that all of these were proposals made by the liberals and have actually been implemented on the basis of the force of the liberties. You should stick to the truth. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] The social partners and all of us together are invited to take up the new proposal by the Federal Government by 2006 in order to create a system for those people who are particularly vulnerable to health, such as construction workers, those on the tape, roofers and many more, including women's working groups, that they can continue to retire at 60 or 55 years. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But no women's professions!]] I'm trying to ask you to take this opportunity! You always promise it in front of the gates or at congregations. Take seriously what you promise, work with it, and do not constantly polish! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The present draft contains many suspensions. The debate is now under way in the Committee on Budgets, and everyone has the opportunity to introduce their initiatives. This is, of course, difficult if you do not have any ideas, if you do not have ideas, if you believe that you always have to criticize as an opposition. I understand, but one thing you need to know: Someday it's over, someday it'll take up the population and say: Wait, that's not true, they're telling me! Do you know what's happened lately? People called me and told me that they would have heard from competent offices that if they retire in 2007, they would have to expect 40 per cent discount. – To spread such lies is irresponsible! It is irresponsible how to deal in Austria with feelings of people who are in retirement in the near future! [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] One more call. – I am the Chairman of the works council myself, and I can only tell you one thing: I go to my colleagues at the construction sites and explain to them what is happening at the moment – honestly! I also tell them the negative, not just the positive. The positive distribution is easy, but you also have to say the negative. They must also be told that they want to create a pension for their children, so that they are safe. The colleagues outside understand that. But what you're doing is polemizing! The holding of business meetings, of information events, I fully understand, but not what, as I learned yesterday by a call from VOEST Linz, was decided there yesterday: No matter how the decision is taken here in this House today – we will strike! We'll lock the streets! We will block the access to the VOEST and much more! Friends, that's not how I imagine a policy in Austria! If it is justified, we can talk about everything, but first read this program! [[Abg. May. Worm:... the Council of Ministers...!]] Read this program and consider exactly what I said: Read – think – talk! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Let us help to secure pensions in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e8899	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Prammer. Your speaking time is 10 minutes, Mrs Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e8917	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Walch, what did you do last night? – Not at all Your own concept read, because – only for clarification, because this is important for the people sitting in front of the televisions at home –: How does the “hackler rule” look new and real, as you say? This “hackler rule” is – and now be careful! –: Also in the near future men with 60, women with 55 years in retirement. – “Hurra!”, everyone screams. – What you don’t say to them is how much the pension will be shortened: In men it is reduced to 65 percent and in women it is reduced to 57 percent. [[Call the liberals:Falsh! Wrong!]] This is your pension reduction concept, which carries your handwriting, and you will also have to answer that, ladies and gentlemen! [[new calls for call for tender in the field of freedom and interlocutory calls to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We have said it several times: Hold on! Keep your heart in the interest of the people of this country! – They themselves want to implement a pension reform, harmonisation in autumn. I ask you: Why, then, these measures today? – I can tell you: Because – and Mr Oellinger has shown it – this so-called pension reform is in the budget accompanying law, and if it were not or should not be a unilateral budgetary measure, it would not have to be included in this budget accompanying law, and then we would also have time to discuss the summer – all the political groups here in this House together with the social partners – and to do so, what Mr Oellinger and other previous speakers have said very clearly, namely, to ensure that the so-called Babyboom generation can also take up acceptable pensions from 2015. That's why it's about – and not about this money acquisition action you're planning here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The women are particularly affected – and this has already been mentioned. I can't say it any more: You forgot her again! [[Vice chancellor Mag. Head and Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein:]] What? What? You have clearly forgotten the women again, because you do not take into account what is really necessary in this pension concept or elsewhere. What is it that it is that you come to a fair and reasonable pension? – Continuous insurance periods! First of all, that's the big headline we need! But that also means that we must give women as well as their male colleagues the opportunity to be so busy. And to do that, we need framework conditions! We have already talked here in this House hundreds of thousands of times about childcare facilities. We have talked about the importance of labour market measures in order to make women fit to find their way back into work even after the child break. – But all of this is not important to you. You cut the pensions particularly among women, and today you present yourself as the great “saviors in need” by turning a little scrape at the time of child rearing. [[Abg. Silhavy:... to 2028!]] What the hell are you doing about this mess? – We should tell women clearly. They determine that the calculation period is actually being covered, but at some point! That is, what you propose today is taking place in 2020 or after that. And also what you have proposed, namely the extension of the retirement period from 18 to 24 months of contributions, Mrs. Haubner – because you listen very attentively to me, which I am very pleased – applies only to that generation – as it is in your laws – which today relates to the child's allowance. It is not for those women who have cared for children over the last 20 years, but for those women who are now caring for children, they may be lucky and be able to enjoy these child training times. – This is the discrimination and the disadvantage that the manuscript of the ÖVP and the Freeman bears! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But the whole thing isn't enough. Theme Conversion period. – I have said it personally, even here at this speaker’s desk, and I like to repeat it: I am a supporter of lifelong calculation, first of all because I believe that this is fair. It is not fair that if I have 45 years of insurance and 15 years of insurance, on the basis of the maximum contribution basis and the rest, I receive the maximum pension just above the low level, until the end of my life. That can't be fair. By the way, women have always benefited if we have extended the calculation periods, for what has happened at the same time? – The upgrading factors have been taken into account! We can prove, by way of calculation, that women, even if they have a life throughput, but at the same time a fair appreciation of those times that are long behind – and in which women usually have their good income – would have a better pension than they now have – and above all a far better pension than those they should receive according to your concept. That would be our proposals, but you don't care very much about that. [[Abg. Donabauer: Why didn't you do that?]] - I'd like to tell you that. I'd like to go into it. – You have interrupted the successive measures aimed at ensuring that women have continuous insurance periods, broken down, completely abruptly. Can you remember when last time the child rearing times were upgraded? Could you remember? – It's been a long time, I admit it. That was in 1998! It's the last time Lore Hostasch's been upgraded. [[Abg. Donabauer: And before? And before?]] – But since then, they have only stopped the carrots, and always, if they have taken it, they have moved away again. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Donabauer.]] I would like to stress something special, namely the issue of solidarity. – How can you handle all the serious issues in such a debate here and close your eyes and hold your ears on the issue of solidarity? – 7 percent of pensioners in Austria have a higher pension than the highest ASVG pension. That means they have more than €2 360 a month. 7 percent, you could say, is not much, that is not possible. Only: These 7 per cent are 22 per cent of the total population of pensioners! That is why, I believe, it is also justified to ask these pensioners to pay a special levy, namely the Solidar levy, to make us fit for those years, which I also spoke about at the beginning of which the Babyboom generation goes into retirement. These would be sustainable concepts, ladies and gentlemen. – You have not even heard them, you have not invited us to discuss them, you will probably not do so in the committees. But one thing is certain: The population is not as stupid as you would like to present it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can still find such beautiful words, you can still think of such beautiful excuses: The people feel that, they notice it – and they will present the bill for it to you!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e9058	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mr Tancsits. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e9079	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mrs Prammer just said: “They’re cutting the pensions especially among women.” – That’s not right! It is true, on the other hand, that all possible reduction measures, in particular their limitation by covering, for men and women, apply equally, but that the height assessment and pension justification of child rearing periods and the billing of child rearing periods from the calculation period are particularly preferred to women's pensions towards others in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e9136	As the next speaker, the honourable Member's head is mentioned. Your speaking time is set to 6 minutes in accordance with agreement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e9154	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The facts are clear: No one disputes the need for this pension reform, because, ladies and gentlemen, we have waited too long for the necessary adjustment, has postponed reforms and, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, has put lies to the pensioners before people! [[Call the SPÖ: The dosage is wrong!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Who?]] [[Abg. Krainer: bowl!]] Now you wonder that people are surprised by the extent and depth of the cuts that are necessary. You do not even have the sense of responsibility, at least now, given the need to take these measures with us. No, Mr Gusenbauer – even if you leave the hall now; no, you stay, as I see, but there! – you continue where your predecessors have stopped. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer rises from his place and goes to Abg. Nuremberg]] If you do not believe this, I can read to you what Mr. Zankl has done to you in today’s issue of the “Small Newspaper” by writing: “What Alfred Gusenbauer... presented was not a millennium design, but a propaganda brochure for May rallys.” [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] And on top of that: “The paper... is not much more than a collection of headlines. ... Instead of offering a differentiated alternative, Gusenbauer relies on a total rejection:...’ A quote from Rainer Nowak, quoted earlier today, from the press: “What Gusenbauer presented now is a blow into the face of the boys – and all those who can only expect a little.” [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And what does the ÖGB do, Mr Ververtnich, Mr Nürnberger? – You abuse your sharpest weapon, the right to strike! - You didn't make that up with the Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. That's what we made up with the Chamber of Commerce!]] Don't tell me a joke! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] – They misuse this right of strike for the enforcement of political – non-commercial, non-tariff, but political concerns. And I'll tell you: Here in this House, gentlemen, is the place for political debate – and not in our businesses and not on the streets! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I understand those who are concerned about whether the labour market can take up the additional labour potential resulting from the increase in the retirement age, especially in the current economic situation. But I can calm down those who are concerned about this and assure them: It was taken into consideration. We raise the retirement age gradually, in a period of ten years only, and we only start on 1st. July next year. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: “First ”?]] Furthermore – and this is what we like to negate – the Wifo confirms to us that we will already be missing some 165,000 workers in the labour market in 2008! [[Abg. Oillinger: You know that now?]] That is to say, this measure on the one hand and this situation on the other side are in the same direction at the same time: One is compensated by the other. This measure does not only create a problem, but still requires an additional labour force per balance. Moreover, we also support the employment of older people through a significant reduction in additional labour costs, especially for older people. Ladies and gentlemen! Many of my friends in the economy are also concerned about the consequences for their employees during part-time work. I can also calm these: The age part time will be extended, and anyone who already has such a contract can retire at the scheduled time. [[Abg. Oils: But not when he was in the blocktime!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I myself belong to that group that wants to have a long-term harmonisation of all pension systems. This is the biggest challenge for all of us in the next few months. But it is not the removal of reforms that has been announced, and that is why I also appeal to everyone not to make political small money out of the reform which is under discussion here today, but to really participate constructively in the second stage. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer:... “Close the debate!”]] Therefore, my appeal to the social-democratic trade unionists in particular: Accept Please see what Bernd Marin has attested to us: that substantial changes and improvements have been made in this draft. Leave the street, return to the negotiating table, let our businesses work in peace and do not damage and do not endanger jobs there! Take care of your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the trade unions, just as you did at the time when you were doing it again. You can do it! Take care of your responsibility now in harmonizing pension systems and take part in them! [[Abg. Dr. Fischer:...! You said that's a schmarr'n, and that's where you're talking...!]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, one more word on the Greens: Professor Van der Bellen, I am quite disappointed. Here you'll have the theme of withdrawal hunters with the topic of pension reform. [[Abg. Mandak: This is unpleasant!]] One cannot be of the same opinion as to the safeguarding of air sovereignty as regards the defence of neutrality as regards the fulfilment of the constitutional mandate. But it is intellectually somewhat underprivileged when you go here and 2 billion € alleged savings from the pension reform – which is of course never true – if you compare the annual savings from the pension reform with a one-time investment to take place here. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: It is Upper Austria that has calculated this!]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Your head of state has calculated this!]] I am actually glad, Mr Van der Bellen, that you are no longer a teacher or a professor at the BWZ, because otherwise I would have to think, honestly, slowly about taking my daughter out of there because my money would be too bad for me to have her trained there, because I fear that she would learn very, very little in the business sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e9388	The next speaker to speak was Mrs Dr Glawischnig. Your speaking time, ladies and gentlemen, is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e9407	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Kopf, I can fully understand that it is most unpleasant for you today to put the question of the takeover and the 2 billion €, which will cost at least, into the discussion here. I understand that this is very, very unpleasant to you. But believe me: The Austrians have a right to know that! – They have decided today in the Council of Ministers, and that means fixing the largest military procurement operation in the Second Republic. At the same time, you decide to make one of the most radical cuts in the pension system without even somehow turning red without squeezing with the eyelashes, and you can also sell it under the title “pensions security reform”! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Right! Right!]] Distress makes inventive, very inventive. In which the blue-black German government was very inventive in the last legislative period, it was completely distorted to present facts with terms. I recall, for example, the “Integration Treaty”, which had nothing to do with integration and a contract, but a forced deportation in the absence of German knowledge. I also remember the government's statement that it would save itself. There has been a tax increase. And now we're talking about the so-called pension security reform, which builds up a big trick. This is extremely unfair to the population. They argue in a consciousness that is present – many people say something has to happen – but they do not call people the true numbers. With the killing argument of population development, you justify one of the most radical cuts, in view of the fact that the so-called President of the Court of Auditors, who is sure to be someone who always strives for efficiency and economic efficiency, has said one of the “super-primary champions of the Republic”: [[Abg. May. Molterer: “So - called ”?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not so - called!]] Not necessarily! Hardnesses that are avoidable! You can sell it under the guise of “pension insurance”. This is very, very unfair to the population! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Worm.]] The population is ready for reform. However, you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have not yet managed to put forward a discouraging argument on what has already been the subject today, namely that the federal subsidies to the pension system actually fall and that many of the atrocities that are contained in the present draft are not at all necessary and still the big question in the room: Why do we have to save € 2 billion each year? [[Abg. May. Molterer: I thought the Greens were thinking about youth! – Obviously not at all!]] What is this really necessary for? – With it At the end of the legislative period, can you make a tax reform, which you distribute as a gift to your clients for the upcoming elections? Is that the real reason? – You have not said anything about this argument today. I would like to know seriously: What are these brutalities now necessary in this form if the federal grant is shown to fall? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Worm.]] However, many people are now unable to see sand in their eyes, and I have full understanding of the people who are not sitting in Parliament, who have no other means of articulate themselves in any form, than to express protest now. I think this is all right, and I also support these measures. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr. Klubobmann Molterer! Today, you have spoken very much of responsibility – of responsibility you demand for people, responsibility to future pensioners. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Which we perceive!]] – I demand once Your responsibility is one: first of all, the responsibility to put the concrete figures on the table – and not just to argue globally with responsibility – and then to choose the gentlest way through which we can actually secure the pension system in the medium term. I call on you not only to pursue budget relief as a goal, but also to address existing injustices once. The question of women has been raised very often today. Why is this not a goal of a pension reform? Why are the existing inequalities so obvious to you? We're just going to keep it going, the worst thing is gone now, you say today. Why is it not a goal to eliminate these injustices? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This is a helpless attempt to beautify something that is not beautiful. I'm really sorry. I wish you would be born again in the next life as a nurse, with birth year 1948, and then try to bring 45 years of contribution together. Have fun! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also call for responsibility as regards the famous political pensions. There are no precise, concrete proposals here either. This is exhausted in confessions such as: Yes, something has to be done. – What amazes me so much: If you praise the second and third pillars in Austria so much – this is all so “super”! – then I wonder why you need so long to transfer the so-called old politicians to the new system in which they have a very good starting point for the future with the second and third pillars. That is a wonderful system in your opinion! So why not already present a concrete model in this regard today? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – I have the impression that you would have forgotten this at all, there would not have been massive intervention on the part of the opposition parties. Now we have two groups that are particularly affected. The women were already a topic today, but I would like to end up with this fairy tale that this is a little useful to the boys. What is being presented here, with all the steps that are still planned, to cumulative measures! – I only mention the public service decommissioning measures – 35 000 officials are being dismantled! – or the issue of the abolition of early retirement in connection with the lack of employment. [[Abg. Scheibner: But by non-retirement!]] Who's meeting that? You're saying, We will protect older workers, we will reduce additional labour costs for them. – But do you not believe that this creates a certain displacement competition? Don't you think that if you cut something away at the front of the sausage, something is missing in the back that will happen to anyone? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Who, do you think, is that? And for women this is a very, very sad chapter. The last four years were lost years. [[Abg. Steibl: But go!]] It is a embarrassing situation that we have slipped back to the last place in the EU comparison with regard to male and female incomes. This is the result of the blue-black women's policy in recent years! I find it highly urgent that no one gets up from the government bank and says: Our main goal in the reform of pensions is to finally tackle these inequalities! – There will somehow be handled with an increase in child care periods from 18 to 24 months, and then only for children’s benefit women – generations of women who have previously raised children, perhaps also men, looking through their fingers. I wonder where your sense of justice is. You have lost that, especially the liberals on their way to the government, completely! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Slow, slow, slow! Don't be so angry today!]] I'm very angry today because I'm really upset. And I wish you another woman's fate that you should be born again as a woman, but in the last century, not in this, namely in the 1960s. [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I wish you a men's send, because that would definitely be a loss!]] The bad thing about this reform is that it is happening in such a way that you do not care if it is unconstitutional whether it violates any EU directive, such as the Equal Treatment Directive. They themselves have decided by constitutional law that male and female pensions will be equalized in 2020 in relation to the retirement age. They have constitutionally assured that there is no abolition of the early pensions of women. Our dearest constitutional lawyer, Professor Mayer, has said that you cannot abolish this for women without a constitutional law. They're just going to get over it! You'll be afraid of that on 4 May. June simply decide on a simple legal basis and thus go beyond constitutional law! They move beyond EU law, which prohibits women from further multiplying indirect discrimination, which you do without a break. That's all you know – and that's why I'm so angry today, Mr Scheibner, quite simply! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a disparity!]] I have not yet looked at all the improvements you have decided on today, but one of them is a real joke, I must say – Mr Bartenstein has already explained them to us at the entrance – that the accounting should be carried out in stages in the calculation of child rearing times. An improvement will be made in stages, and the overall stage will include saying and writing 25 years! - That's really a joke. How can you imagine this to women? Why can't you let an improvement come into effect at the same time as the cuts? No, it's up to 2028! - I'm unscrupulous, really. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: How to calculate!]] That's supposed to be an improvement? – That's a drop on the hot stone, I'm really sorry. Our proposals: We have always said that it is very important to lay a foundation stone once in the form of a basic guarantee, a basic guarantee in old age. Here we have the biggest problems, especially in women's pensions. I don't understand why this comes across so little contradiction among parties that call themselves Christian-social, who call themselves a party of the "little man", the "little woman", why these things can't be attacked. We will continue our efforts, but I hope you will be able to understand a little bit in the next three or four weeks – this is especially addressed to the liberals – and do not decide on this horrific thing of cruelty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e9667	The Federal Chancellor has spoken from the government bank. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e9688	High house! I would like to thank my colleague, Karlheinz, for giving me, at the expense of his speaking time, the opportunity, in particular, to replicate the statements made by the Green Group, which today has put a vote of distrust against me and which I would like to give some reasons on which I would like to address. In these two motions for resolutions, they have justified the vote of distrust against me – and probably in favour of me against government policy – by restricting our actions, our pension reform essentially to the ASVG sector. Ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group! That's just not right. We have presented you with an overall concept that affects both ASVG and farm pensions, commercial pensions and civil servants' pensions. The second reason why you feel distrust of me and want to vote on it is that we do not even point to a harmonisation of the different pension systems in Austria and, for example, other insured persons, such as politicians, hardly have any changes to expect. Your mistrust is totally unfounded: Today, we have presented to the Council of Ministers – and we will be happy to reproduce it for you – the key points of an overall approach to the harmonisation of the 30 or 35 different pension systems in Austria, which, hopefully, we want to work out with the social partners and countries in autumn, and the four clubmen are already negotiating substantial changes in political relations. Mrs Glavischnig! It is absolutely unfair, and I would not have expected you to say here that there were no specific figures on the policy-making system. You know that, in the interests of a common regime, we have today refrained from giving you things here. But You know very well that both in the duration and in the amount of the reference advance, as well as in the sacrifice of solidarity and in the full implementation of these government fractions want to go hand in hand with you. Dissemination You're not here to be untruthful! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wittauer.]] You claim that you feel distrust with me because we create legal uncertainty. – The opposite is true: That is precisely because we are providing for long transitions – 25 years in the calculation, ten years in the expiry of the early pension, three years in the amount of increase – we have created legal certainty, and I think that is fair and fair – just as in part-time. They claim that this is a sustainable deterioration for women. - That's just not right. [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] Because of the fact that we provide 24 months as pension-based – in contrast to earlier, there was no such thing at all – and that we deduct three years per child from the calculation, there is an absolutely justified preference for women; and that is of course for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You claim that you have to distrust me because we contradict Austria's international commitments to reduce inequality between women and men. – Member of Parliament and Professor! I've got to correct you. In the EU there is the clear directive that the retirement age for women and men should be the same after transitional periods. We are the country within the European Union, which will last provide for the equalisation of the retirement age for men and women, in 2028. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: The income shears...!]] Claim It is not you who, with this measure, which violates international law in terms of inequality, positive discrimination, and which does not change the preference of women at all. On this point, your mistrust is absolutely not justified, Mrs Deputies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As you justify your mistrust in the fact that future generations are burdened with income losses of 40 and more per cent, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to expressly say to you: [[Call the Greens:Ready time!]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] That's not true! Due to the caps we introduce, 15 percent “cover” is introduced in the racks and a maximum “cover” of 10 percent. [[Call the SPÖ:Ready time!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e9787	Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to pay tribute to the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e9805	Last sentence: They claim that the federal contribution will decrease. – The truth is: That's not true. In 2000 it was €10 billion, in 2006 there will be €12 billion, in 2012 €18 billion, in 2022 €24 billion. [[ongoing calls to the SPÖ]] Your mistrust is therefore absolutely not justified!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e9844	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr deputies, please start by playing the claim to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e9866	Federal Chancellor! Unfortunately, it is not possible in the short time to actually correct all your claims. I'll start at the beginning with what you said in your introduction speech. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have said that persons with long periods of insurance under particularly demanding working conditions receive the possibility of a new early retirement pension, which is transferred to the permanent right. – That’s wrong! Federal Chancellor! This regulation is not incorporated into the permanent right, but, as the draft and the explanations clearly state, until 2019. It cannot be incorporated into permanent law because of the Federal Constitutional Act on the different retirement age. It's transitional right that you're creating here again. You have also claimed in your current speech that there should be harmonisation of political pensions. - That's wrong. Federal Chancellor! The amount of increase you provide for in the political pensions cannot hide the fact that political pensions are granted on the basis of a completely different legal claim and contain an increase of 6 per cent in parliamentary pensions and 12.5 per cent per year. There can therefore be no harmonisation of political pensions that would be justified. Only by abolishing the political pensions would this justice be restored. Federal Chancellor! They also claimed that the new regulation would favour women in child rearing times. - That's wrong. Federal Chancellor! There is still a disadvantage for women in child rearing periods compared to replacement periods in the presence service. The average time of replacement in the service shall be counted as the average, and child rearing periods shall be limited to: 150 percent compensatory allowance - even in the future according to your proposal - and this is a disadvantage for women.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e9917	Next item is the report by Mrs Bleckmann. Your speaking time is 10 minutes, Mrs Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e9935	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The opposition colleagues have repeatedly asked the questions: What is it about? What is that necessary for? – Let me tell you once again the situation: In 1970 we had 42.7 years of work, i.e. years of work, in 2001, there were 37 years of work. In 1970 we had 8,8 pension years, in 2001, we had 20,3 reference years, which are more than ten pension years more than 1970. And if you say what's going to be done now is to rob the boy of his pension, I'll tell you: [[Abg. Oils: That's the way it is!]] Then, if nothing were done, it would be a robbery, because then there would be no guarantee of pensions. You just have to take note of this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: No, you should also deal with numbers!]] If it were the way you imagine it, then we should not change anything at all, everyone would get another 100 € on their pension – that would be the most beautiful thing, and that would be our wish. [[Abg. Oils: Go!]] But we know we can only do what is feasible and what is possible. [[Abg. Oils: Reading – thinking – talking!]] Unfair is what you propose and do, unfair is that as you imagine it to do nothing. That's pension robbery! – But even the SPÖ has already realized that it is necessary to do something. And what did we do? – Our vice-president and Minister of Social Affairs has sent a draft assessment on the journey, on which there have been many opinions. In the weekend negotiations, the opinions were prepared. Those points that have led to criticism have been taken into account and incorporated. And this is probably the important thing: that points such as improvements for women, but also the determination of the “hackler rule” were incorporated into the new draft. I know you don't like to hear this and don't like reading it, but it's been very much involved. And it is even so good now that Professor Marin, who was one of the greatest critics, said today in the "Mitagsjournal" that he was "surprising" – I quote him – "about the extent of the reliefs" and would not have expected it. [[Abg. Oillinger: I'm also surprised, but about the Marin!]] - You too are surprised. [[Abg. Oils: About the Marin!]] You see, it's possible here to accomplish something very well. Professor Marin goes on to say that he would not have expected it, because if you calculate, you get over 30 percent of savings that should suddenly no longer take place in the planned form. - That's sensational. [[Abg. Oellinger: Your own group does not believe that! Your own group does not believe so.]] It is good that there has been the possibility to include improvements in the design. I think you too must acknowledge that this was done. I know, it can never be enough. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But every day we wait longer is just a problem, because it leads to future pensions not being secured at some point. [[Abg. Oillinger: Then add your part to it!]] You know for yourself that the ratio of those paying has changed. Three have previously paid for one, in the future it will be so that an active worker will have to pay for a pensioner. A worker should pay with his contribution for a pensioner. Tell me how you want to make this possible, how you want to guarantee it! – They smile, but you of the Greens have not presented any suggestions on how you imagine it. [[Abg. Oillinger: But two years ago!]] No, but a mistrust request, that was your idea, just: That's a little too little! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Better than the Greens, it has made the SPÖ, at least it has announced a concept presented after long calculations and considerations. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: What is the FPÖ model?]] And now the strike measures announced are being supported. [[Abg. Oillinger: Where are your ideas?]] I find it particularly inconspicuous that even old politicians like a Charly Blecha who comes from the SPÖ call for strike demonstrations. He says Austria's pensioners are ready to demonstrate. – That’s really infam. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] He has probably escaped – he is strutting sand in the eyes of pensioners – that there are no obstacles to active pensions, because they are secured. When he turns up as a senior and pensioner representative and says: Here must be demonstrated!, then he really scatters sand into the eyes of the pensioners. I have a table on which says how much your colleague receives of pensions, that is, €12 554 – unlike a minimum pension of €613 –; this is what Mr Blecha receives. [[The speaker has a list.]] And this one calls for him to arrive to call for strikes from the pensioners – that is really infammable! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: You agree with him that you do not want to intervene in existing pensions! They support Mr Blecha!]] Colleagues from the SPÖ! You should harmonise in your areas, at the ÖGB, and do all the things planned for autumn in your own areas, clean up your own dishes once and join the ASVG regulations and adapt to the planned harmonisation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] We liberals have put in this draft the improvements for women. And one cannot wipe from the table that for women three years per child will be counted in the calculation period in the future. That's an improvement for the women, and you can't just wipe from the table and say: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: How much does that bring?]] It's not there, it's not! [[Abg. Oils: billed, not “counted ”! – I have to correct you again! But it's wrong what you're saying here!]] And that the pension-based times are increased from 18 to 24 months, is also fact, is also at the table and is an improvement for women. You can actually correct as much as you want, it won't help anything, because you also have to get on to it once that there are very good improvements here, even if you don't want to hear it, can't hear it and don't want to see it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: We would very much like to hear improvements!]] The next point, which is also stated, is that the harmonisation of pensions will take place until the year 2033 – I know it is a long period, but the SPÖ's draft is even 2034! – an approximation of the pensions of ASVG insured persons and officials. This is already the first step in harmonisation that will take place gradually. It is important to come to a real harmonisation of all areas in autumn – with social security schemes, with other areas such as the Trade Union Confederation; perhaps there is also the one or the other case that can be included in the harmonisation. Of course, the political pensions also need to be included – you have real partners in us! We already have four weeks ago... – your club-obmann [[Abg. Oil: Where? Who?]] Van der Bellen himself has said that Klubobmann Scheibner has very well brought things into the negotiations and that there are even similarities! We want to raise – I presented this four weeks ago on the part of the liberals – the political-pensional age to 65 years. I think everyone will agree to that. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oils.]] We want to abolish the double cover, so that there are no pensions and active contributions for politicians at the same time – this may be true of one or another here in the house, but that will be enforceable! And we want a solidarity levy, and I also expect a solidarity levy – again for you, from the SPÖ – from your former Minister Löschnak, who himself says, for him a solidarity charge is not in question. [[the speaker shows a table]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] - Get out of here! This is not the case with colleagues from the left. A demand for intervention in political pensions is inexplicable, leaving the rule of law, says Lösnak. – But you demand a solidarity! What does the SPÖ really want? Do you want a solidarity charge for everyone, even for your politicians, or only for individual others, but not for your own clients? – It is your Taferl, look at it, which is the moral image of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] When it comes to intervening in their own areas, it is a blow to the face of the “little people”; it is also 12 000 € political-pension. – This is the result of your laws. We liberals want to guarantee young people pensions, we want to secure pensions for pensioners, and we want to avoid social hardships and create a balance so that we can guarantee pensions, but also a secure future for the whole of Austria – and we will.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10261	Ladies and gentlemen! In the President-in-Office, we have set the speaking time precisely during the television broadcast time until 3 p.m. ÖVP and SPÖ have made the least use of it, so it is good that the next two speakers of SPÖ and ÖVP are, and I assign them every 2 minutes. Mr Nürnberger, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10283	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the European Parliament Walch's not in the hall now, but you, colleague Dolinschek, will do it to him. Member of the European Parliament Walch said: Read, think, talk, but he forgot a very important point: the calculation! It's important to calculate! And we have already expected, Mr President-in-Office, in the near future of the time available, and I call you first facts. I brought three examples yesterday at the business meeting at Opel Austria, examples which are not designed, which are not artificial, examples of certain persons, and which we have not calculated, but have been calculated by pension insurance. A 52-year-old employee, Werner Sch., loses 230 €, a 40-year-old, Herbert Sch., 305 € and a 33-year-old, Manuela S., 406 €. The result of the template you presented today is that this doesn't change by a single cent! The amounts remain as they were after the draft. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] And because so much has been said about harmonisation and justice, I'll tell you the following about your two papers we've got today, about your documents: The amount of savings – because Mr Scheibner said it was nothing for the Budget – look like this: In the field of ASVG, € 1.12 billion will be saved in 2004/2005/2006 – and then we harmonise? And to do this, one must bear in mind Mr. Walch’s statements on the “Openly Said” mission. The ASVG insurers have the highest level of own coverage – 86 percent pay you yourself! –; another professional group, the farmers, pays only 28 percent of the pensions themselves and saves € 1 million in 2004 and gets € 1 million in 2005, and in 2006 it contributes € 1 million. – This is harmonisation? – We reject that! Federal Chancellor! The offer of the social partners stands. Take the dialogue with us! We are ready, as we have done with the employers – in the substance nothing has changed, Mr Mitterlehner – until 30. September to do something reasonable. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] If not, you, Mr Bundeskanzler, bear responsibility for the actions in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10349	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. Your speaking time is also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10367	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Thank you for the applause! [[The appeal to the SPÖ for Mr Nürnberger is still continuing.]] Thank you for the applause for this federal government! The need for a rapid and comprehensive pension reform is almost undisputed – except for the SPÖ and the Greens – probably also because they still have no logical concept and fear, because fear is easier to offer than solutions. [[Abg. Oillingers: Not always the same leader!]] It's too little to say! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The pension reform adopted today in the Council of Ministers is a future guarantee that is fair and fair. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I cannot understand such claims as those of the SPÖ family speaker Andrea Kuntzl. She says women would apparently be punished for spending more time on childcare. – That's just wrong! The right thing is: For the first time, 24 months of child rearing are recognised as a pension, second, for all children born in the last five decades, 36 months – three years! – from the calculation, the basis for the child rearing time is increased by 2 per cent per year from today’s 650 € in steps. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, in steps, in steps, in small steps!]] And since Mr Prammer said in her speech that the population is not as stupid as we believe, I would like to reply: The population, especially young mothers and fathers, knows what a generation contract means, and is in favour of fair and sustainable action, as the Federal Government has now proposed this pension scheme. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10436	Ladies and gentlemen! I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. Short debate on the answer to question 56/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10458	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the number of orders 56/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mrs Stoisits to open the debate. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10491	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, the State Secretary and Minister at the Government Bank! They are allowed to remain there quietly – also the rights of asylum seekers in Austria and the question of dealing with refugees in Austria are topics which are at a special point of view of the Austrian public: precisely and especially since the blue-black government before and now this black-blue government is in second edition. Mr. Bundesminister Strasser, I am very grateful to you for the sentence in your reply, which is today the subject of this short debate, which I quote: “The right to asylum has always been a very complex matter. The clarification of the question of whether an individual is granted asylum requires the discussion of the specific, often extensive facts in each case." And by the way, write: “Unfortunately, a serious answer to these questions is not possible.” I'll give you the right to: A serious answer to questions, as I have asked them, about concrete files of an official of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, who was the one in the asylum department, who decided to go, and in which, for example, the question was raised, whether someone who is a victim of torture and who comes to Austria via Hungary should or should not get asylum in Austria, requires a detailed consideration of this matter. – However, this was simply decided with the reference “Safe third country; will not be examined”. You, Mr Minister, are right if you write to me that a serious answer to such questions is not possible, at least not within eight weeks, because it requires extensive research. In this case: Search in files, follow-up, et cetera. But exactly these questions were asked by me because I had presented to you by this official, Dr. Romanoski, and his modest quotations, to the official who is today the highest asylum officer in the Republic. This, when it came to the public, Mr. Federal Minister – I say it this way – has in any case triggered wonder among all those people who have to deal with asylum and refugee issues, but also great indignation to those who have ever come into contact with these officials, whether personally or, above all, through his decision. That is why, Minister of State Strasser, I ask you, if you want to take yourself seriously, to deal with it. And you write: ‘The right to asylum is... a complex matter.’ This matter is often complicated, and it is therefore necessary to deal with this very matter in great detail. – Yes, Mr Minister, please do so, but ask the officials of your home to do so, and do not do what you did in December 2002, namely to entrust these officials with this task! Now I do not want to address the allegations made in the direction of its political behaviour – and I say so to speak now quite gently and without any conjecture – to a behaviour which I do not like, and you, Mr Federal Minister, certainly should not vote on these claims that exist. These allegations and allegations are not to be rejected by hand – even in a case where a person against whom such accusations are raised is entrusted with such a high and extremely sensitive position in a place of residence, a position in which the issue of asylum is repeatedly raised. There is also the fact, at least, that Austria could become a bad light internationally. I say: However, you should act, Mr Minister - I say this in the future - but in the past you have not done so, but it is not too late. Mr Bundesminister, on this required and necessary sensitivity to the question of personnel selection: In other areas of competence or subject matter, there are similar things to report from your place of business where the qualifications, so to speak, the question of the Beamtic pre-life of ladies and gentlemen, of your place of business, which have been raised by you in certain positions, is more than questionable. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What is an “amtical life”?]] – This is the one point of this discussion, this discussion of your answer. The second point concerns the question of how you have dealt with the concerns I have expressed through this request, namely how you are dealing with asylum law, federal care, dealing with asylum seekers, dealing with refugees and the process of possible improvements in this matter. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Supreme Court has decided in this case. I'll tell you: I am the Green Judge; my belief in the Austrian rule of law is still unbroken. And that is what I want to demonstrate again and again as a politician, because the most important thing and one of the foundations of the democratic system in every democratic country is belief in the rule of law! There are often decisions of independent judges, of courts that I do not like: because I do not consider them to be correct because I do not appreciate certain political motivations and political environment so quickly or differently, but my belief in the rule of law is nevertheless unbroken. The Supreme Court in Austria has, as has just happened recently, decided, in this sensitive matter of federal care and the question of whether the State may take the right to turn its attention to the good heart of the fellow human beings, and the Republic of its obligation to adopt itself as a mediocre asylum seekers, who have a right to accommodation and care under the Federal Service Act, by saying: Thank God, Austria is a country in which people have a great heart; there are mainly the Caritas, the Diacony, the Volkshilfe, the Integration House and also the UNHCR, which is not directly a charitable organization; what does the Minister of the Interior need to take care of mediocre asylum seekers?- Oh, my God! This line – and I agree – has actually begun long before you take office, Federal Minister Strasser. In this procedure, which was decided and rejected in the revision, which is now to be led, the facts have been on the table for a long time, Mr Strasser, at a time before you became Minister of the Interior. They only join a bad tradition, so to speak. – But today, Dr. Strasser, you are the Minister of the Interior! Today, you are the one who is asked to act on the basis of this decision of the Supreme Court, a decision in which it is clearly and clearly stated that, in an economic emergency of a state benefit for maintaining its existence, and in so far as it is fully subject to the foreign determination of its fate – quote from this decision – the Republic, the State which you, Mr Minister, are personalizing, must not be excluded from what you can now set in motion. The Supreme Court has even made a choice of words in this decision, which I was quite surprised at, positively surprised. He literally wrote that the state should not “spectulate” that private organizations are taking care of the needy. – But you do it all the time! As others speculate on the stock exchange, you speculate with the good hearts of the Christians in our country, just from Caritas, Diacony, “Volkshilfe” and others! Furthermore, these are not just Christian-motivated organisations operating in these areas. At any rate, you speculate that these “will already take over the business”. And that is unreasonable, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I emphasize: That's unfair! And, Minister Strasser: Your personal attitude is your matter. Our issue, however, is to ask here what is right, namely that the rule of law remains the rule of law. It is not a matter of saying or saying anything in an unsavory way you have shown them in the last few days: What is the interest of the Ministry of the Interior in a review of the Supreme Court?- Oh, my God! We remain with the Federal Services Directive, which simply and simply states: If one comes from Armenia, there is for him, no matter if he is in need of help, whether he is mediocre, whether he meets all the criteria of the Federal Service Act or not, no support by the Republic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Federal Minister, I ask you to correct, as soon as possible, this way in which you shape politics, to change, to correct, I say, because it is not all bad, what happens. I would say, in view of what you are now planning in connection with asylum law – that is what the NGOs and also the church organizations tell me, and I myself know – that 70 percent of these are certainly coming to a green branch in the truest sense of the word, but 30 percent of them require the discussion, which you have denied to NGOs and church organizations. Parliament will force you to discuss this, and as a Green Group, we will do everything we can to ensure that the new asylum law is not dealt with here, but is discussed in terms of content, that experts are used and that we take advantage of the expertise of those who work in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10583	Mr Strasser, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10604	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Stoisits for – I quote you – your “soft” speech. But I also have to say: Not only can one answer such a request not only in eight weeks, but one cannot at all answer it, because there have been statements of fact that are not comprehensible here. Unfortunately, such things cannot be answered. Secondly, The official mentioned in the request is an excellent employee of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, who has a long-standing practice in this field and also has profound knowledge of the field of law. That is why he has also been proposed to me as a highly qualified candidate for the function in question. Among other things, he has been entrusted with this task. I would like to ask you very clearly and clearly: You have here a whole series of – I don't know, I think I'm using your expression – called odds. May I cordially invite you: If you have knowledge of any odds, then don't keep that for yourself, but tell us! We're going through every suspicion! We follow each and every one of us who is thought to be injustice, even though something might have happened with our employees. I have set up a separate office for internal affairs in such cases, each one of them. But I can also ask you to do this: If it is just a question of nebulous precepts, I may ask you to refrain from such nebulous precepts, for this is not what our officials deserve, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In order to clarify this again here: Austria is and has always been a country that has helped people in distress. Austria is an asylum country for those who need asylum. However, we must be very careful not to come to us under the title of asylum people who block the procedures and, in particular, to block those who need this right of asylum. That is why we have started a wide-ranging discussion with the parties represented in Parliament, with all non-profit organizations, with the churches, with all those who are interested, in order to achieve a redesign, a significant acceleration, a faster settlement of asylum procedures. I will shortly present a draft assessment of this kind, with which we are trying to achieve that with 1. More rapid procedures will be adopted for all stakeholders in January 2004. On the principle of knowledge that the OGH has enjoyed on a case of 1996: I am very surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that you are positively surprised at this knowledge of principle, because if you have been following the work of the Ministry of the Interior for the last three years, then you have to note that the Supreme Court has done nothing but change its decision with a knowledge of principle in the direction that is now being or has already become law through Austria's initiative throughout Europe. It is clear to you that the directive, which was also adopted by my vote in January 2003, provides support for all asylum seekers from 6 to 6 years of age. February 2005 is mandatory throughout Europe, of course also in Austria. And it is certainly also known to you that in Austria we are working on the implementation before date 6. On 1 February 2005, the European Union adopted a new asylum right by 1 January 2005 as previously as sought by the European Union. January 2004. That is why we will continue to review the 15a agreements with the countries before the summer, and we hope that we will be able to conclude the 15a agreements in the second half of 2003. This ensures that what the Supreme Court has carried out in retrospect following the practice and work of the Ministry of the Interior's pre-plannings is also followed by a principle decision. This is a substantial change in the migration and asylum policy that you have rightly established over the last 15 years. This has fundamentally changed over the last three years. We are right here in the middle of the European decision-making process, the European mainstream.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10673	The speaking time of the following speakers is now 5 minutes. Mr Kößl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10695	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Mag. ==References== In January 2003, a request concerning the appointment of Dr. Christian Romanoski to the Head of Division III/5 of the Legal Section in the Ministry of the Interior addressed to the Minister of the Interior. ==References== March 2003 There has been a written answer to this question. I have been wondering today and right now why there is a short debate here in Parliament about it. I have hoped and expected that there will be solid evidence that will also support these reports in the newspapers or what has been claimed here in this request. I didn't hear that out. It is, in my discretion, once again a very populist action here. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Christian Romanoski has been working in the inner resort for decades and has done his work so far impeccablely. ==References== In January 1998 he was the speaker of the Refugee and Foreign Section, and at that time there should have been errors that are now the occasion for this short debate. I can't imagine Dr. Romanoski and also the SPÖ Ministers would have watched if there had been irregularities. That is why it is not at all a question that an official whose transport is in progress will be transported even if he has proved himself in his service. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Only one sentence on this OGH decision: It is a knowledge of an individual case that happened in 1996, and it is a referral to the First Judgment. That's all it is! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10734	Mr Parnigoni is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10752	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! This debate gives the opportunity to highlight a little bit of the actions of the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister of the Interior in particular and the dealings of the Minister of the Interior with the people and with the right in general. There's already a line coming to light. I remember the Federal Minister's appointment, where, for example, he has not ordered the legal protection officer in accordance with the legal provisions. On the other hand, he has tried at high speed to carry out party-politically motivated occupations to an enormous extent since he took office, and in turn has shown that a number of these occupations are illegal, and there is quite a question of abuse of office in the area. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! As the employees would have really deserved a different treatment, they would have earned from you fairness. Those who have, so to speak, politically liquidated you would have deserved that you would always have taken into account the professional qualifications – as Romanoski has – that you would have always taken into account what the Commission has proposed to you, what you have not done in many cases in the reforms in the field of national army commanding and in many others. Since you took up office in 2000, you have in many areas carried out these posts mainly in the form of party political motivating, but you have not, in fact, been concerned about the important issues, such as dealing with non-monetary refugees, despite a multi-year term of office. Although you knew about this – and I guess that – OGH process, although you were aware that something could happen to you, you did not in any way take a similar action and did not take the opportunity to reorganise federal care, for example. You have clearly not recognized the urgency. This current OGH knowledge is of course already interesting from a legal point of view, and it is not as Mr Kößl says: This is just a recognition of a single case and only a rejection to the first instance. That's not how it is, because one thing is quite clear: The Supreme Court has clearly stated that there is a fundamental rule of law here, especially in the principle of equality. This means, in fact, that in the future, the State will have any needy asylum seekers in the Federal Service, or its basic benefits. It is important to ensure that if he does not want to put himself at risk of the process in each individual case and does not want to get into the situation that he loses a process after years. Federal Minister! It is significant: To date you have not responded to this situation, you have let your speaker play the situation down and mean: Let's just wait and see what's going on. The OGH's decision, however, undoubtedly means that in the future it will not be so easy to refuse the admission of refugees into federal care. That is, the number of refugees who go to federal care will necessarily rise. Therefore, it would have been precautionary if you had responded to it and put forward appropriate concepts, but you have not done so. That makes you look deep, Mr. Federal Minister, and that fits in with how you deal with people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10801	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10819	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Stoisits, you are always acting as guardian of the rule of law and of parliamentarianism, but today, with your call for a question response, you have actually misused a parliamentary instrument. They wanted to deal with the judgment of the Supreme Court, they wanted to rub around the ears once again to the Minister of the Interior: Well, see what's happening, and that's why you used this request, with which you're really evading an official of the Ministry of the Interior, to hang on to it your discussion contribution. That, I think, is a process that is really not right. And above all: Play She is not always a guardian of parliamentarianism! I am therefore not going into your remarks because you misused this instrument at all, but I am referring to your request, which has already outraged me when I read it when you brought it in. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Very cheap! Very cheap!]] This request is a typical sign of how an atmosphere of suspicion is created, how to dissuade someone, how to make someone displeased, with what decisions one does not agree with. I would be really ashamed, Mrs Stoisits, if I made such a request to the Minister of the Interior and let myself go of a cart that contains only rumors. I would reject that in your place! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Romanoski, mentioned in this question, signed an asylum notice last year in 1997! So more than five and a half years ago, Mr Romanoski made last decisions; now he is only dealing with EU matter. . And now Mrs Stoisits comes and here presents serious allegations relating to the decisions that were issued five years ago, yes, Mrs Stoisits even injuries him and asks if he has not been brought before a criminal court. Infringements of service, which obviously should have occurred, are now being debated. What the evidence is based on, you have to look at this question: on really just nebulous rumors. Some unknown, unnamed editor meets anyone who is not mentioned again who tells him that Mr Romanoski is supposed to have contacts with a far-right newspaper that is actually a conservative newspaper. So there's nothing specific at all. I actually expected Mrs Stoisits to make her accusations concrete today, that she will say who the editor is, accuse Mr Romanoski of who these contact persons are. - No, she didn't! Rather, on the back of an official who does his job properly, she has expressed her political concern to the Minister of the Interior. And this is really unscrupulous, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Only someone who does not agree with the political opinion is not acceptable. – I do not want to talk about the decisions at all, because anyone affected by such a decision also has an appeal, and there are decisions of the Administrative Court, there are directives and everything possible. By the way, Mrs Stoisits: Mr Romanoski did not get this job on his own account or through the support of the Minister, but it took place a tender procedure from which Mr Romanoski came out as the best. You should also take note of this! Tell all this to the people who have brought you the rumors and who have motivated you to make such a request! I would also like to say the following: In particular, we politicians, who are never opposed to such rumors, in which denunciations are repeatedly tried – all that has been told to me about individual colleagues: their private life, their professional life and so on! – should be very determined about it and not make such requests if such unproven rumors are played to us. [[Abg. Gradwelt: What has been in recent years?]] I'll tell you something: If someone tells me such a rumor – also about you! – then I say that I will talk to the colleague about it with the honourable Member to check if that is true or not. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Before I did, I would never make a written request to the Minister. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Now at once! What's happened in recent years?]] No, not “now at once, ” but always! That's my principle!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10900	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e10918	Mr President. High house! Minister! On the statements made by my predecessor, I can say – almost as an actual correction – that right-wing decisions are not “discipline”! That's a little bit of a difference! And by the way, one can treat this exhaustively with the saying: “As the bad guy is, so he thinks!” [[Objection to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You still missed us in Parliament! You really missed us! There's nothing better about it!]] On the question itself and on the question of Mr Strasser, who has once stood in the smell of being taught by Caritas, and who, since then, obviously strives to prove the opposite in a fair manner every day. It is already strange if Mr Strasser says: Please come and call me all the odds you notice! – Almost in the same breath, however, he said: But I am not able to answer this question, Mrs Stoisits, but I am not able to answer it. - After what?- Oh, my God! You'll probably be able to ask questions. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: Not suspicions, but facts! That's a little difference!]] To say, Austria is an asylum country for all those who need it. – That’s where it’s going to be exciting, because who decides who needs asylum? On the one hand, we have a care law and on the other we have a care directive. And if the rule of law is really as good as Mr Strasser has made it sound, he would immediately have to take back his directive from October 2002 because it is in a certain contradiction to the law. The law states that the need for assistance must be identified as an asylum and as a basis for care, and that the grounds for asylum must be decided on on a case-by-case basis. However, the Directive lays down that people from certain countries are not eligible for this. And before there are still some fantasies coming up, be aware of what this care is all about. This is not a kind of existential income, but it is simply about a roof over the head, about eating enough every day and, if necessary, having a medical care in case of illness. You can't even go under this limit, you should mean. Mr Strasser, however, went below it and even in winter left dozens of asylum seekers on the street! It is therefore not irrelevant, of course, to ask which senior officials are present in this department, who are acting in a wise manner, and which policy is being pursued in this department. It has already been announced that the presentation of a new asylum law draft – I am excited how detailed the discussion about it will be, in particular, how long the assessment period will be, or whether this will be as it was in the past discussion with the NGOs, where the “discussion” – under quotation marks –, the “dialogue”, which is always called upon, has limited itself to showing 40 PowerPoint films, and then it said: [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: Four weeks!]] That is not the case, Mr President. One may be excited about what will be contained in this bill and whether the fears that the UNHCR has already attached will apply, because then we would have a new emergency in the asylum policy of Austria, if we were to achieve an acceleration of the procedures without increasing staff, without extending the opportunities for asylum seekers to exercise their rights at first instance and to have the possibility to provide asylum grounds after that. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Imagine someone coming under a severe shock, under trauma from a war zone to us, or a woman flees with her daughter, who threatens the genital mutilation, or who himself is affected by it: How likely is it that you can talk about personal psychotic-dramatic experiences in the confusing situation at the border where you are confronted with a foreign-speaking bureaucracy for the first time?- Oh, my God! Take You ask the thought that behind each note is a person with his life!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11009	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11030	I will resume the negotiations on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. Mrs Mag. Mag, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the Weinzinger. What a coincidence! Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11051	High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Not Déjà-vu, but the next debate. As a result of the interruption, I am on the floor and I would like to follow the statements made by several previous speakers, to those of the Federal Chancellor, to whom the club members of ÖVP and FPÖ spoke, who meant that the debate on pension reform should be held here in political dialogue and not on the streets. – I think that, honestly, is a strange understanding of political participation. Why should we not talk to voters, to people affected by the reform? What's bad about that?- Oh, my God! Why should not people who are affected articulate their resistance?- Oh, my God! Mrs Bleckmann here said that it would be “infam” if a pensioner was given a high political pension according to the old pension system and nevertheless advised to strike. I have to ask you: Is it not really infammable if someone who, like Mr. Vice-Chancellor's Head, also refers €12 000 to political board, those who have a pension of €600 or €700, says: Don't strike! Don't fight! You should not resist, but your delegates will become – if as active as the liberals, then good night! – bring your arguments to Parliament!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] More than once – almost inconspicuously often – the government parties stressed that they were not thinking of abolishing the charging procedure, but that only an optional second or third pillar should be created. – All that is so often and strikingly emphasized, and to do so in such an incisive reform as it is here, awakens my distrust – and not only those that we express to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic with our request for distrust. Only at one point do I ask Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, who has claimed that everyone can decide for himself whether and how much he would like to pay in private pension provision. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, at the “new settlement”, Mrs. Colleague! You have to quote me right now!]] – Yes, please, but please explain to me, Mr Klubobmann, how, for example, a woman who – at least 17 percent – earns less than €1,000 gross a month should freely decide whether to pay at least €150 per month in a private pension provision to take only a lower limit once! There can be no more talk of free decision! It's about the minimum of existence! And with that, this second pillar is already pure fiction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This pension reform is hostile to women! This does not change the claim that women would be “preferred” in this pension reform. – This is where, out of a disadvantage, it is tried that, to a truly overwhelming proportion of everything in terms of child rearing, household, care obligations to non-minors, women are still being born up and taken over by them, to construct a “privilegation”. If you try a little bit of improvement – to which I will speak immediately – it will suddenly become a “privilegation” of women who are shown to earn a third less than men and already already have about half less pension than men. As your “improvement”, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, I will show you the following examples: The great “improvement” that obviously happened in the form of enlightenment this weekend is that it is said that women or men should still be able to go in early retirement at a certain stage. That is, a woman – and this is even mentioned in the explanations – should be able to retire at 55 years, for example a nurse. Please tell me, like a nurse who has a training to complete, that is, to enter the profession at the earliest age of 18 or 19, until 55. Year of life comes to 40 years of contribution for the calculation! This is a measure that can easily be written down somewhere, but it is relevant to hardly a woman, maximum for auxiliary workers who have a continuous working time, i.e. not a month unemployed, who have not been missing any time that has not been ill for a longer period of time – i.e. a sum of characteristics which, in particular for auxiliary workers, almost do not exist. [[Abg. Oillinger: But it's already broken!]] You have made changes that try to sell you as improvements, but which are pure cosmetics and do not bring anything to the affected women! They see only sand in their eyes, but the pension reform as such continues to be anti-female!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11121	Mr Klubobmann Scheibner spoke on an actual correction. – Mr deputies, you know the relevant provisions of § 58 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11143	Mr President. I shall try to comply with these provisions. Mrs Weinzinger claimed that in my contribution to the debate, I would have meant that workers would have the free choice to pay contributions to private pension provision. It has said that this is not possible in most cases. – I leave this assessment to you unscathed. However, I did not refer to the free choice of investing in a private pension scheme, but I have argued that by introducing the new “handling” workers now have the free choice of paying their claims from this “handling new” into a pension fund and thus investing in the second pillar of the pension system – not as you have claimed, in the third pillar. [[Abg. Oillinger: And the provision of the future!]] [[Abg. Oils: This is nothing new!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11204	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. – Mr deputies, your speaking time is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11228	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! What if nothing happened to pensions? [[Abg. Lacner: Sigi, you are...!]] – Mr Lacner, I have just begun! As you know, I am committed to ensuring that working people receive a fair pension, that current pensions are guaranteed in the long term and that future pensions are secured. [[Abg. Oillinger: We have to look at that!]] Because if we don't do anything, we all know that – you just as well as I do – will come to a collapse. Then that means: Either 50 percent pay insurance contributions or work until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. In this case, however, the younger generation will announce the generation contract to us. I can't do that anyway! [[Abg. Oillinger: And that's why you're 40 percent pension reduction? That must not be true!]] Mr Oellinger! We both know that life expectancy is increasing. I don't have so much time that I can go into everyone, but you also know that life expectancy – thank God – has increased that people are longer in education and much shorter in working life. The corresponding figures increased from 1970 to 2001. The ratio of contributors to pensioners is no longer as it was originally. We know that in the past 350 pensioners have come to 1,000 contributors. In 2030 the ratio will be about 1 : 1. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this pension reform, as it is planned, will do exactly the right thing with the harmonisation of all pension systems. Finally, there will be equal contributions for all and equal pensions. Anyone who deserves more can also take care of it differently – no question! I am also full of you if you ask for a solidarity contribution from those whose pension is above the ASVG maximum pension. That's what's supposed to happen. Many changes have already been made to this budget accompanying law. On transitional arrangements: The retirement age will not be changed from today to tomorrow, nor will the increase be made; this will be done in stages, i.e. within three years in four stages. At least that's something! Those people who are just in front of the pension now can expect it to be very slow. The same applies to the deductions and the ‘hackler rule’. We have been particularly committed to the “hacklers, ” that is, those people who work hard and have long periods of insurance. I have not heard anything about this from SPÖ until now, which has been completely silent on this issue over all these years, except to publish a propaganda brochure and with "1. To operate on May” rallies and strike calls. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Contradiction of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] It's a little too thin for me! At first, only those people in the trade union federation who are in the public service. Those employed in the private sector do not strike because they do not have time to do so. That's the problem! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] Mrs Trunk! I've had the opportunity to talk to you about it. They, since I do not know any of the union's written proposals in this respect – except for the Chamber of Workers' calculations on what would be – have submitted a paper with a few points on my request. [[Abg. May. Trunk: This is the blue lie!]] [[Abg. May. Trunk: Yes!]] I tell you clearly and clearly: I can carry every single point. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] However, I have given you further documents which are proposed to intervene in political pension privileges. You said you didn't, you refused! [[Abg. May. Trunk: That's not true!]] You said that on the occasion of a panel discussion! You told me you couldn't carry that. [[Abg. May. Trunk: I refused under FPÖ...!]] But that's your problem, I can't do that. Ladies and gentlemen! We have succeeded in achieving a significant improvement in women's pensions. One woman is counted as three years per child, the basis of assessment will increase to up to 150 percent of the compensation allowance rate in the future. I would have liked this to go a little faster, but I am also satisfied with it. If it is possible, we will make further improvements on this point, as will the “hackler rule”, in which I think some improvements are needed. I will use all my strength in the next two to three weeks to make improvements. Don't worry, we'll try to make improvements together with the coalition partner.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11371	The next speaker was Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11400	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The statements by the Chancellor, who is no longer present, and by Mr Vice-Chancellor, who is no longer here, with regard to an objective of securing pensions for the future of youth, are punished by the fact that all these measures are merely a budget problem. Between 2004 and 2006 you want to achieve € 760 million in savings from the ASVG sector alone. This is the reason why there cannot be a comprehensive and fair reform for all the population groups in the autumn! That's why you recklessly cut the rights of the affected people in the ASVG area. You, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, are willing to impose the costs of € 760 million on the underprivileged insurance companies you have always so gladly quoted over the next three years. That's how it looks! Where's Col. Walch? That's how it looks, Col. Walch. This is the true background of your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And perhaps it would have been nice if Mr Collegue had Wouldn't it be preferable to give woman-discriminating statements here – what statement? [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Mandak.]] [[Call:What statement]] Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, I would like to tell you. However, I can't get Upper Austrian, so I'm going to translate it into German: [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Then tell us in Steirisch!]] “I’m upset when a person speaks male sex, but even more so when women do so.” Do you think that’s not female discrimination? Do you think that means absolute gender equality, dear Dr. Partik-Pablé? In your place, I would put off the party political scams and hear the words as they have been said. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Partik-Pablé, Dr. Fekter and Scheibner.]] My question was: Why this hurry? Why isn't time until autumn? And why not a uniform pension system for all, for which all the parties of the House are supposed to be, and which they represent? So this is just about the budget problem, and it is only about measures in the ASVG area that are particularly hard hit by this insured group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But this lack of willingness to talk, the inability to engage in a dialogue, does not seem to be just in the House. I have an interesting e-mail from a voters to the Federal Chancellor. He wanted to inform the Chancellor of his concerns about the planned measures. This mail was sent on 22 May. April, at 8.46 p.m., sent to Mr Bundeskanzler on the subject of "pension reduction action". The answer, see, was on the same day, 22nd. April at 17:36:58: “what deleted without being read”, in German: was deleted without being read! [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. You're ashamed of yourself!]] – This is the kind of dialogue that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, maintain! And because we are in favour of dialogue, because we are in favour of genuine dialogue, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They have often asked us to make constructive proposals. [[Abg. Scheibner: But that was not constructive!]] So you have a constructive proposal. You only need to agree and thus ensure a majority, then together we can tackle this problem in such a way that the youth actually has a secure pension once and not as your model is simply shortened, the standard of living is reduced and it is referred to private and individual risk precautions.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11564	The motion for a resolution by Mr Gusenbauer, ladies and gentlemen, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11586	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel said in his report today: This federal government has courage for responsibility. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Does that have to be true?]] – Yes, I know that you do not even recognise the courage to be responsible, but in view of the panic, the fear of being and the lack of constructive cooperation – for, Mrs Silhavy, the introduction of motions for resolutions does not at all show a willingness to talk at all, that is, that you do not want to cooperate in a pension reform at all – it is really necessary to have courage. [[Abg. Silhavy: Oh yes, but only one... and fair!]] When the SPÖ still dominated the government, you never gave up the courage to carry out real pension reforms, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. Every year that has passed, the need for reform has increased. Experts say: If, as early as 1990, or no later than 1995, a profound reform had begun, then it would not be necessary to take such decisive measures today, then the measures could be more gentle. But You've always maligned. They have always only made pension schemes from one year to the other. You've always made an eye-to-eye policy, you've never led people to see what the future of pensions will look like. They have never told those people who have entered their working life now or five years or ten years ago, what it will be like with their pension. You never did. They have always been silent about what it will look like in 2010, 2020 – and that is what is happening to us now, even to everyone, to my ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... stupid!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now we have to let the EU say that – literally – the sustainability of the system is not guaranteed. There have always been discussions here in Parliament where the question of how pensions continue has been discussed. I recall an event of the Austrian insurance industry, in which a representative of the then socialist-led Social Ministry – Minister Hostasch or Minister Hesoun – said about how pensions will continue: Well, if it's gone so far, it'll go in the future too! – That was the forward-looking answer of a section leader of a socialist minister! So you have to make proper accusations, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. This argument, namely that it was now going to go and that is why it will be in the future, reminded me of what Mr Van der Bellen said today: Well, if we're on the 1st. ==References== January 2005 to make a pension insurance for the young people, it doesn't matter! – Please, this is going in the same direction: Let's keep going like this, no matter when something happens, it's going to go on somewhere! Mr Gusenbauer said today: Anyone who speaks of an urgent need for action is a Kassandra, who actually wants only evil and is pleased to send out negative messages. He also said that those reforms, which were adopted in 1995, would already work until the end of the legislative period. – This too is the old shift tactic, ladies and gentlemen! We just don't want to join in. We want the young people who enter work today to have a secure pension once too. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It has already been cut several times today, I would like to make it clear once again: The facts indicate that entry into working life is becoming increasingly later, the years of retirement are longer and longer, the years of work are getting shorter and shorter. In 1970 they worked 42,7 years, 8,8 years in retirement. In 1990 they worked 38 years, 17,7 years in retirement. In 2001, one worked 37 years and will be 20.3 years in retirement. This is nice for the individual, and the increase in life expectancy should of course continue to be forced, but it must also be provided financially. I really ask you – this is my final sentence: Take up constructive conversations with us! Do you not just leave it in the motions for resolutions? Together we may create a good solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11664	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni, during his remarks, found it right to accuse the Federal Minister for Internal Affairs of "political liquidation". Mrs Partik-Pablé then called for an order. I will not pronounce it, but I would nevertheless ask – perhaps Mr Posch – that he inform his colleagues a little about what could be meant by “political liquidation”. The next speaker was Mrs Mandak. - Please. [[Abg. May. Posch: What kind of presidial morals are these?]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Why the Posch? We've planned the chapel for this!]] [[Abg. May. Posch: I don't approve, but...!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Madam Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11733	Mr President. High house! This pension reform is a signal of social cold and ignorance. – That doesn’t mean that to anyone, says the Deputy Head of State of Vorarlberg, his sign of Deputy Party Chairman of the Freedom Party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Child rearing and old age care should not be penalised by reduction in social benefits. – That doesn't mean anyone writes the ÖVP councillor Schmid from Vorarlberg in an open letter to the Federal Chancellor. Finally, in its opinion on the present draft law, the Vorarlberger Landesregierung referred to hardness and called for the protection of trust. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the one government party, you can imagine what needs to be in your draft, so that your colleagues from Vorarlberg, a God-proclaimed ÖVP/FPÖ country or ÖVP country – FPÖ country – do not practice such criticism of the demands of their own party. Take this criticism to heart and don't worry about our criticism of this change in the pension system! You already see from the reports of your own colleagues how right we are to do so! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course you can now say: These were reactions from the weekend, over night everything has become different, we are discussing today – I sometimes have the impression – about another model. However, I wonder: How can this government be calculated if, overnight, substantial reform projects are changed in such a way that they can no longer be recognized within 48 hours? You too must ask yourself: How predictable is your policy, which confidence protection offers your policy? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That surprised you that we've improved that way, gal?]] Both of us do not believe that this is why it is also the submission of the mistrust request against Chancellor Schüssel. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Two issues of today's debate in plenary are particularly worrying. One is the pension reform, the other is the way in which this House, which should be regarded as the centre of Austria's democracy, is treated with democracy and democratic rights of the citizens of that country. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It was not just a debate contribution, it was not two, it was a whole series of debates by speakers who were questioned whether it was legitimate in this state for citizens to walk on the street, defend themselves, resist and strike, because there is a pension reform in the area which is unsocial, which is being carried out on their backs and which they do not want. What you're doing here is politically worrying. It is not you who determine who practices criticism with what means, but there are very clear laws, there are – thank God! – a constitution that guarantees freedom of expression, a right of demonstration and freedom of assembly. Thank God we have these, and you will not prevent people in Austria from making use of this right. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] With your own changes to the draft pension reform, you show that you yourself have not really thought through this whole concept, otherwise such serious changes would not be necessary or useful within a very short time. We want to delay, water and prevent our greens. I ask you to: Think about it, discuss it, think again and then decide democratically! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11819	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. I'd like to put the clock at 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11837	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Guarantee existing, secure future and establish justice. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] – These were and are the three major goals of the Freemans for pension reform. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In spite of a two-thirds majority in Parliament, previous SPÖ and ÖVP governments have failed to include proposals from pension experts and to implement them effectively. Therefore, urgent action is now needed so that the Austrian pension system can be safeguarded in a sustainable way for future generations. It is high time that concrete measures were drawn up and actually implemented; of course, it would be best for all parties to work together for such an important project as pension insurance. Unfortunately, neither the SPÖ nor the Greens have made a constructive contribution to this reform package in recent weeks. No constructive proposal has been put forward during the assessment period, to mobilise trade unions through misinformation, and to support only destructive actions such as strike calls, and to raise mistrust against the government, which does not show the sense of responsibility of the SPÖ and the Greens. Even today, the audiences in front of the television sets and here at the visitor gallery in the Hohe Haus could imagine that the only thing SPÖ and Greens can do with the reform is mock and ridicule. And that disqualifies you yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and the Greens! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All Austrians and Austrians are aware of the need for measures to maintain the generation agreement. From the very beginning, however, it was clear to us that women, as those who make a significant contribution to generation solidarity, must not be the losers of this pension reform. Women spend seven billion hours in family, care and housework. And society benefits from this care of the children and the care of the elderly. For this reason, this family and care work must be recognised as a work performance and has a positive impact on age insurance. To Mr Prammer's address, which is unfortunately not present: We liberals have not forgotten the women! As a social conscience of this government, we have achieved significant improvements in freedom for women. State Secretary Ursula Haubner has fought like a lion for this and has also insisted on the resistance of the ÖVP that child rearing times and care periods are taken into account. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This now recognises three years per child for the calculation. The care periods during the family hospice are also taken from the calculation. The improvement in the billing of child rearing times could also be negotiated and achieved by State Secretary Ursula Haubner. Only since FPÖ's government participation has it been possible for child rearing periods to be considered as pensionable. 18 months ago, in the future there will be 24 months, which means that a woman who has two children has born and raised them, instead of 180 months of working only 132 months. This brings a great advantage especially for those women who do not have continuous employment careers, and is an important step towards self-sufficiency, towards the protection of women of old age. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that there is an improved bill is due only to the care and social competence of Deputy Chancellor Herbert Haupt and State Secretary Ursula Haubner. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Contradiction of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Although the EIA originally had no too great interest in significant improvements, we have succeeded in achieving improvements for women. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, no! The ÖVP too!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11936	Mrs Csörgits has now spoken. I'd like to put the clock at 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e11954	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! It is quite surprising that today, at the request of the Federal Chancellor, a debate is taking place on the so-called pension reform, but the government bank is lost. This shows the value of such serious measures by this Federal Government. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Mandak.]] We are considering reforms that affect the majority of the population, and we are calling for dialogue. However, dialogue always includes at least two – but then the decisive person is the same as Mr Vice-Chancellor, but also the Minister of Women is not present. This shows the value attached by this government to this pension reform and, above all, to the extent of this reform. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: The Federal Chancellor was present for so long!]] We have already heard today from the Federal Chancellor, Mr Vice-Chancellor and also from my previous speaker, how I am so woman-friendly this Federal Government is and that it is supposed that improvements and corrections have been made. I argue that this federal government is so woman-friendly, because if it were so woman-friendly, then the first draft should not have looked the way it looked. This design was extremely hostile to women! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Interestingly, it has also taken a very long time for this federal government to insist that there are very nice atrocities for women. It took a long time. For example, on the occasion of a broadcast of the “Report” in April, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, Federal Minister, asked her if the pension plans were fair: I have not yet dealt with this question. You don't need to be a pensioner, you only need to look at the life of women once, then you know very well that the increase in the calculation period without a framework, without an upgrading factor particularly affects women, namely those women who still have occupational breaks, meet exactly those women who are in atypical employment – which, by the way, has increased extremely strongly thanks to your policies in that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But voluntarily!]] When it comes to abolishing the early retirement pension in the case of unemployment, it is only necessary to look at the statistics: It will be noted that 90 percent of the members of this form of pension are women. If you simply do this by surprise, then women will again be pushed into unemployment. – That’s how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! I don't need to be a pensioner. I know this because I'm concerned about how the working women in Austria actually do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have to look at the problems women working on the tape, nurses, women working on cash registers in the supermarket have home caregivers. These women are in this pension reform, such as They always call them so beautiful, not taken into account. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] In the last days and weeks we have received a lot of emails, letters and calls from affected women who were horrified, scared, but also angry. In particular, those who are just before retirement and have not reached their retirement periods are totally uncertain, because the abolition of early retirement pension is also concerned with exactly those people who are already today – thanks to your policy! – are not in employment, but are unemployed. Let me make a few comments to the accusation that we are not ready for discussion and not constructive! I would like to say quite clearly that we are in favour of a comprehensive pension reform, but that we are in favour of a fair pension reform and a uniform pension system, which also gives young people certainty. We are committed to the protection of trust and the payment system and have jointly prepared proposals as social partners. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has often emphasized that he has put both hands on us. The question is how to stretch your hands. You can do it like that, but you can do it like that, and we have the impression that it was meant to be that way. [[With outstretched arms making an inviting gesture with your hands]] [[the arms stretched out, but both hands in defense position]] [[Last gesture repeated]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We stand by the fact that we will be working together until 30. A proposal was prepared in September 2003. We are ready to talk, but we reject a hush-fuch, roughnesses now and suspensions sometime and a pure money-raising action, as this proposal includes such. That's not what we're supposed to have for!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12069	Mrs Moser has now been reported to the House. Desirable 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12087	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I may begin with a quote with a quote from 23. April 2003: The planned pension reform is a serious intervention in the life planning of many citizens. This also affects the construction law of the social rule of law according to the Austrian federal constitution. That's why the signed citizens demand... In total, then, there are five or six points that are listed here, and these demands and this opinion were made by a Mr Dipl.-Ing. Uwe Scheuch and signed by Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek. – 23. April 2003! Federal Chancellor! How is it ordered by your coalition partner, who says that the planned pension reform is a serious intervention in the life planning of many citizens? Please, this has happened! Last week your coalition partner brought this petition here in this house. It's an absurdity all at all: Those of you who are absolute in the liberal ranks, who are in the hands of whether or not there is a majority within the meaning of the Federal Chancellor at the expense of the people and the people concerned, bring in a petition at once! And today they are sitting there, and the colleagues from Upper Austria are pleading for a common path. I say: You're welcome, nothing easier than that! Let's go a common way! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have motions for resolutions, and we can also refer to your petition last week. No problem, only we need to do it, and do it especially you. You must have the courage to stand up to what you are calling for here, and you must also have the courage to really take a common path. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. They were last weekend at the party day. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Why do you know that?]] May I remind you of a few words, words that formed the entrance statements – I quote –: Politics also has something to do with reliability. She's not supposed to be scared, she's got to build trust. – Mr. Landeshuptmann Pühringer. I can remind you: The recipe is correct, the dose is wrong. – The same author. I should like to point out that what has been demanded there - and I am particularly pleading for you, Mr Fassleven of the ÖAAB - has not been settled, even yesterday at night, not even today in the morning. You are still guilty of what your country captain and deputy party officer has called for. Why Smile You're so innocent? [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Muted]] That's not true! Unfortunately, these requirements of the ÖAAB have not been met, nor are the demands of relevant national politicians in any way taken into account. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] I should like to remind you, in a way, of the fact that a high-ranking ÖAAB officer, his sign at least Landeshuptmann's deputy, Mr Hiesl, at this special party meeting, has also given rise to this special party meeting: It has to be further worked. Satisfied, he continued, we are far from yet. And: If Parliament develops this reform, I can live with it. - So far, Hiesl. Parliament should develop rather than simply decide on your dictatorship and your Council of Ministers' presentation! We should work together to get something on the way. Why Make You don't? Why do you go back to a few peanuts, which have been changed, on a substance that the Federal Chancellor has focused on budget savings and on a policy of acquisition among the interceptors, and which must then be bathed out for decades, especially by the women of that country? Federal Chancellor! Today you have tried the image of the roof tile: The roof is damaged, a roof tile is missing. They said that this was a suitable picture for pension reform. I say: Yes, it is true because the roof tile is loose and falls down and the existence of persons is at risk for decades! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Please distance yourself from your “roof tiles” policy! Make proper, serious, secure pension reforms on the basis of the cornerstones, which are coordinated here at the same time – in the form of our request, in the form of the petition that has been filed and also in the form of what your national leaders demand. Take it seriously, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12161	As the last speaker, Mrs Bures spoke. I'd like to set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12181	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of this debate, I would like to try to get a summary. I think that all those who have followed this debate have seen one thing: This government and, unfortunately, all of you, Mr Bundeskanzler, want to take a socially unfair path for Austria with the pension reduction programme you are planning. Especially cynical today is of course that you do not distance yourself from prestige projects at the same time. They also decide on the purchase of sinterous interceptors. This is obviously more important to you than an ambitious and fair pension reform package! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! I have listened very closely to your statement today, which is now the subject of the debate. They have spoken of caution, but in reality, Federal Chancellor, this reform has been sprung with atrocities. Federal Chancellor! You have spoken of trust, but in reality, even constitutional lawyers tell you that your reform violates trust protection. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have spoken about the great Austrian way in your statement, but in reality you have just left this successful path. They have closed the door and willfully put social cohesion and social peace at risk in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! When you spoke of suspensions, many remembered how the suspension of ambulance charges and the suspension of the taxation of accident pensions were. Many people, when you spoke of abductions today, felt more and more that they just had to leave feathers in your reform. And you have finally talked about future ability, but in reality, because of your policy in recent weeks and months, many people have more and more fear of the future. Federal Chancellor! No one believes you, believes the policy of this government anymore. No one has any confidence in your word anymore. There is also no one in Austria who welcomes today's reform. I have not heard any hailings about this reform, nor have I heard that it is a reasonable reform. The opposite is the case: This reform is irrational and unreasonable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Many have asked you, but this step to take back your pension reduction program. This desire for a restart in the debate so important for people has not only formulated the SPÖ today in the form of an application, but this desire for a restart is shared by the trade unions in Austria. As I can see from an issue, ÖAAB also shares this view; he also wishes to have a restart. The economy in this country wishes to reboot, even Cardinal Schönborn wishes to have a new start. And what are you doing? What are the government parties doing? What are you doing, Chancellor? You sit behind me – continue to be stubborn, further removed, further inconspicuous, and you want to stay on your brutal and cold course. My mother has always used a lot of sayings, and there is one thing that says: Everyone gets what he deserves. – Mr Bundeskanzler, that is why you deserve this mistrust today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: But he doesn't get it!]] Mr. Bundeskanzler, you're unnecessary. This government is dialogueally unable – inability to engage in dialogue with the social partners, inability to engage in dialogue with Parliament, and it is passing through people's interests. It's not about speed, it's about more justice. The SPÖ stands for a fair, a social model, and we have proved through our model that it would also be possible to implement a socially just, sustainable reform. And we also differ in another point: We stand for an alliance with the population, with the affected people. That is why we will immediately enter into and deepen the alliance with the citizen and we will launch a citizens' initiative that will reject your non-social burden rate, your non-social pension reduction programme.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12248	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kogler. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12266	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Chancellor! – He still sits there – turned to the previous speaker – but he may not sit there for as long as some of you suspect, at least in this role, even though today’s motion for distrust may not find a majority, even if he costs it and believes that the dramaturgy has worked. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Pull him back!]] In his world not bad first thing: to present a completely indisputable design first, even if you want to discuss it now. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You're surprised yourself, aren't you? That's what hit you at the wrong foot!]] Second point: Political pensions – a small pseudopointation. Third point: a small, admitted cynical provocation with the interceptors. And last but not least the same picture as before: I, the great reformer, and the others are allowed to cut off in the retrusions. How long can that last? – Maybe longer than many in our Republic love. It may be. Only: This distrust request is justified all the time today. I'm telling you, too, why: Because it is not right that today's opposition parties – and I am actually allowed to include SPÖ – would have made their own proposals in the negotiations at the time. That's not right. I can only take one, two examples where you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have once again intervened personally, in order to to torpedo certain proposals – as I mean: meaningful ones. As regards, for example, the federal grant to pensions, you said today and justified yourself by the fact that it actually rises in absolute numbers, while we all now know that it actually falls in terms of people's incomes in the longer term. If you are now trying to achieve absolute figures, you will no longer be talking about the tax and tax rate in the future, but about constantly rising taxes and taxes. It is only reasonable that no one does so, at least not the opposition, because it makes sense to focus on such quotas. They make themselves here and say relatively simple that it is. But speak the real problem You do not believe that the problem we are well aware of is: That it cannot remain the way it is. That doesn't dispute anyone. One has to intervene on the basis of demographic developments, but one has to look at the demographic developments before developing a budget rehabilitation measure. Demographic developments show a clear picture – there are different ascent scenarios, but one can, I believe, understand to say the following: From the year 2020 you can really talk about a grosser problem if not in time. But what's in time? – Timely is still in half a year – easy! It is only in time if I want to carry out some other circumcision measures, which are relatively short-term, in order to possibly be good at doing so in Brussels and a tax reduction – but that is where the question arises: for whom? – to be able to bring about the rounds. We will remind you that perhaps we are not talking about the tax and tax rate either, but about the total volume, and this is constantly increasing even under my colleague Grasser. The point is simple and touching: Of course, it would be useful to do something at the actual retirement age; and that is, also in the early retirement age. You nod, Mr Molterer; I just wanted to speak to you. We have actually negotiated relatively refreshingly in this matter. If it is the case that you have to do something here, you should look at the labour market, so that you do not create a new problem and “produce” new unemployed people there, which you probably want even less – I hope – than early pensioners. It is cheaper for the budget, I admit, but if that is justified in view of the fates associated with it, that is another question. And whether social policy has happened is another question that we clearly answer with No. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You have something else in mind, but you should open it up once. You didn't understand many in your own party – probably not to this day – but they don't have much left. Mr Molterer and I and others in the Budget and Pension Group have also negotiated useful things, such as raising the early retirement age in such a way that it could soon become a useful tool if we consider retirement age and labour market data together. Then, Mr Bundeskanzler, we would be going from 2010 to 2012 – this is a voluntary agreement, calm down! [[Call the ÖVP: Time!]] – precisely these months you need to clear now completely without need and before time. And this is an unforgivable nonsense, which is not justified by anything – except by excessive savings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] – Mr Jarolim, let us do that! Next, we agreed that this is a bad idea, and we could modulate it in such a way that we achieve exactly the goal I have been talking about. The unity was actually relatively tangible, but you, Federal Chancellor, have not allowed it to be said: No!, the story has to be run down that way by 2009. And you are not saying what the experts from the Institute of Economic Research, the IHS, have told us, what is being created in addition to problems. I wonder what we think of these institutions at all. Now you stand there and say: Everyone who does not follow this proposal is a non-reformist, and I know what. Like a styled ayatollah: I've got the truth, and it's gonna take a long time. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] - I can't understand that anymore. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This is a problem in that at the time – and this is exactly what we are doing – it is not a “relationary box”, because it is not a matter of feelings, it is a matter of political reason that we have offered to each other a negotiated offer. [[Abg. Scheibner: It hit you hard!]] If you want to jump around with this and bend such a reform over the edge and accuse the others that they have no proposals, this argument bites into the tail. I feel this is a relative abuse of your majority, of your relative majority you have, and you will still see how far you get with it. With the foot-maroon companions of the blue force, now maroating, this is only a matter of time. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Then the question will be whether we need to remix the cards, or whether you believe that you have any drums in your hand that have already been “fed out” to you in the back. But that'll all be your problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Now it is about demonstrating that this mistrust is justified. And that's not just a mesh of opposition in this house, but it's also about how people's fates in this republic are being dealt with. That's just a deputy vote of distrust! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Please keep talking, this is very interesting!]] – You will be spared because of your weakness. [[Abg. Scheibner: Keep talking, please! That's very interesting!]] - All right, I'll do it. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I may come briefly to this one point with the Absatzjager-Finanzungsgesetz. This law in itself is a so-called carrier rocket, I read in the APA. – Do you know what that is? – This is a relative pipe creator, who may not even be legally legal, because you are the only purpose that this law has to mention there is a certain sum that creates exactly the need – which you have disputed a year ago – that this law must be made, that is, a certain sum – a very high as we know! – it makes it necessary for Parliament to give the release in advance, so to speak, not to fulfil it. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's to be feared, yes!]] What are you writing? – They write at this point “xx million. €”! You are even too cowardly to write in “about 2 billion ”! If you had just submitted an amendment! This is the smooth bending, perhaps a problem under formal law, because They say nothing but: I'm making a law today that I need a financing law in the future. List the only content You do not at all, and for that you have every reason because Your catchers will become more expensive from day to day – but with this we will confront you in the next few weeks – and this is also an abuse! That alone would have deserved a mistrust request. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What did you do with the ÖVP?]] Mr Prinzhorn points to the clock, but in that point he knows what I am talking about: The whole thing is not right for him. This is just a building block of a chronique scanandaleuse of a billion-dollar shift, and that will often be enough to deal with it. [[Abg. Scheibner: What did you negotiate with the ÖVP back then?]] Mr Bundeskanzler and dear colleagues at the ministerial bank! If you put on a third, fourth and fifth pillar, because if we only make you somehow liable for the damage you are doing here, in promille areas, then that may not be enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12483	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Chancellor in accordance with Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. Such a decision by the National Council is required, in accordance with the Federal Constitution, the presence of half of the representatives. I note the presence of half of the Members here. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger, fellow Members, on the establishment of a fair pension system for all. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request does not have the necessary majority. He's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues on pensions which are fair, safe and fair. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request does not have a majority either. He is therefore rejected. 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 74/A by Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek, Mag. Walter Tancsits, ladies and gentlemen concerning a federal law establishing a Federal Act on a flat-rate payment of services of minor employees and amending the General Social Security Act (63 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 76/A by Mr Heidrun Silhavy, Members of Parliament, on a Federal Act on the collection of a levy for insured persons in minor employment (64 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12581	We now come to points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Silhavy has spoken. I'd like to put the clock at 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12605	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! We are discussing today two requests for the flat-rate levy... [[Members of the Freemans stand at the Intergovernmental Bank and talk to Vice Chancellor Mag. Chief.]] We will see whether Mr Vice-Chancellor will perhaps give me an ear during the debate. I mean, the subject we're dealing with right now is not uninteresting for him either. It's about... – Unfortunately, he doesn't give me the ear, he leaves the hall. [[Vice chancellor Mag. He's heading to leave the hall.]] I regret...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12635	I would ask the honourable Member, who is the first speaker and who is a key subject, to listen. [[Abg. Dr. Bleckmann continues with the government bank and talks with government members.]] Mrs Bleckmann, we usually have an agreement that we do not turn our backs on the other Members. Please, Mrs Silhavy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12669	Thank you very much, Mr President. – Ladies and gentlemen! It is about the flat-rate payment of service providers' contributions for minorly employed persons. The reason why this is so important and why I regret the fact that Mr Vice-Chancellor has left the hall is that it is about the Federal Government's being called for until 31 December. March this year to repair the existing law, namely, insofar as the Constitutional Court has said that this flat-rate tax should not be titulated in the ASVG, but that it is necessary to find a different arrangement. ==References== March passed. The Federal Government, which has been so quick in its pension reform and in other areas, does not even want to allow a discussion on these issues, has had more than enough time in this case, but has nevertheless allowed this time to pass, so that it was necessary for Members of this House to submit requests to deal with this issue. What is the consequence? . We, the SPÖ Group, have tabled a request in which we wanted the service providers to pay the same contribution as the service providers, if they so to speak enter the option, so that, on the one hand, the social security contributions are kept there and, on the other hand, an additional incentive is not so to say, to have more and more minor employees, but to actually employ people in part-time or full-time work. The ÖVP's request leaves the right as it was. A change is made only in so far as this is a tax and is taken out of the ASVG. They have rejected all the opportunities to bring about any improvements. The Secretary of State also said it in the Committee's debate, which is a serious issue. There is an increasing increase in the number of minor employees. It's typically a female topic again. We have discussed the impact of the proposed pension reform. Mrs. State Secretary, maybe you can tell us. What effect does this have on a now 30-year-old woman who is slightly employed and who now, as it were, volunteers in pension insurance because she is slightly employed? In 2028, the cover of 10 percent will be removed during the calculation period. I think this is a problem that has a huge dimension that can't be overlooked. The measures that have been announced today will not be enough for each other. Even the president of the Catholic Family Association – I mean, this is really a totally unwarranted person as far as their close relationship to social democracy is concerned – today, in a broadcast, notes that the planned suspension measures for mothers in the context of pension reform are “pure cosmetics”, part-time workers were “nothing at all”. Now I wonder: How is the next station, namely those people who are not part-time employed in the conventional sense, but, as it were, slightly employed? In view of what we have just discussed, namely the most serious measures in the ASVG sector, I think that is a bad situation that the Federal Government has been inactive for a year and has not taken other solutions for minor employees. It is a pity that Mr Bartenstein is not here, because, of course, part of the increase in employment goes out on atypical jobs – that is not just the weak ones, I admit – and because part of the increase in female employment is in reality nothing but the extended reference of the childcare allowance, which is still included in the form as employees. We will only see how this half year later the labour market will be affected by the fact that women actually have this employment. The question arises as to how those women who now go by the side of the job are treated in the future, because they cannot live by the child care allowance alone – and thus I am again with the small employees. How will the pension reform you are planning affect this group? [[Abg. Oils: Don't look good!]] I fear that there will be a very dramatic reduction. If you are talking about future security, if you are planning to secure future pensions – we doubt this anyway, and we have also proved, on the basis of figures, that it is not about securing – then I am sorry that it is the women, especially women who often have no other choice, that is to say, small employees who are completely abandoned by you. This is very unfortunate, and I have to say that personally – and I have to say honestly – really hurt, especially because you have also missed a chance to have a steering effect, namely, labour market policy. Although I do not think much of the steering effects that this Federal Government has already decided, it is precisely the opposite that has proved to be true in the case of ambulance charges. But in the field of labour market policy, where the market does not self-regulate, you try to free entrepreneurs as far as possible from all the rules and leave workers, so to speak, this relationship of power between entrepreneurs on the one hand and people who have nothing else to sell than their labour force, at the expense of workers. A second point: Due to the fact that the new scheme will enter into force two months later, social security will not be 10 million €. One could say, given the budget, given the incisive measures in the ASVG you are planning, 10 million € are not much. If They think – not us! – what burdens you can impose on pensioners, sick people, workers, so that these social systems are financed, then, I have to say, 10 million euros are not a nuisance either. Then it is due to the failure of this Federal Government because it has not acted because it has remained sparse that these €10 million are missing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The following speakers will also address what could have been done with the €10 million. Mrs. State Secretary, will these €10 million, which have been deprived of social security, now be reimbursed through federal funds to social security? That's my question to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12719	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Tancsits. If desired, the speaking time is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12738	Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the mid-1990s, some changes had to be made in the labour market, resulting in new institutions between self-employed and non-employed. New self-employed, free workers are the legal regulations, including the minor employment which is being used in the meantime by 205,000 people in Austria, but which is not counted extra in the labour market statistics as employment, but not in order to prevent an error. More than 90 percent of the small employees – at least from 2001 statistics – have other insurance conditions: Co-insurance, students, students, pensioners, other employment conditions, self-employed or self-employed. So the precariousness, as it is also called, is in reality a valve function, where one creates means of service that are below a certain limit defined by the legislator. Nevertheless, one did not want this institution to be misused and that, for example, one company could come up with the idea of dividing full-time or part-time jobs to several minors. Therefore, in the second half of the 1990s, there was an intensive discussion about this and a social partnership consensus to prevent this possible abuse by means of an additional social security contribution for more than one and a half employees. A good solution, as I mean. The content of the scheme is also not questioned by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court of Justice shall: The fact that the social security contribution in the case of one and a half minor employment is not necessarily an insurance relationship and a benefit are based on the fact that there is a false system of competence here. Therefore, the consequence today is that this provision in matter will not be re-regulated as a social security contribution but as a federal tax. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in doing so, we will meet the needs of the labour market to enable minor employment to continue, including the desire of many who want to do something to do so, but at the same time also to avoid abuse. But let me make two comments on what my previous speaker, who is now obviously no longer in the Chamber, has said! I see no need to take away from the debated consensus between the social partners and the political parties from 1997/98 and now to make a more stringent regulation, where it has clearly proved itself to be effective and abused. But let me say something about the second, at the time: Of course, it was necessary to have a new discussion here on the continuation of this scheme. We would have preferred it if we had been from the Constitutional Court until 1. Getting time to carry out this renovation. The deadline was not set in the knowledge. I think we recognise the full content and also the findings of the Constitutional Court in the formal conditions. That's part of the free play of forces. But if I recognize these checks and balances, I must also admit to the legislator that he does not respond immediately and to call and uses his time for this new regulation. This is being met today. Once again, political and social consensus as a foundation. I don't understand why the SPÖ is not going with us today. There is a new good regime as a measure to prevent abuse and to further facilitate minor employment.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12792	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12810	Thank you, Mr President. Since no one from the Federal Government is present, I am speaking to you exactly as it should be.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12829	The Secretary of State is behind you, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12844	Then I'm calmed again. The problem is that I have so little opportunity to talk to members of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party now because it has clearly set up its triple, Mr Walch, which reads as follows: Read, think, talk!, somehow check whether he is in harmony with their own practice. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. – I can also explain it, Mrs Fekter. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That was so great now, Mr. Oellinger! That was really great!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party... – What is significant about a little problem with the order of this beautiful threefold within the Group of the European Liberal, Reformist and Reform Party? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I would not have expected such superiority from you, Mr Oellinger.]] The point is that on the previous item on the agenda, when we discussed pensions, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats voted in favour of its own petition, which it obviously did not read, because it was essentially the substantive and legal substrate to our motion for a resolution. The question then arises: How does it hold a political group with the principles it sets out itself? Now on this item on the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, that has already been mentioned by Mr Silhavy: How do you keep it with regard to this point with the principles you set up at the previous point? The government must act quickly, has gone for the previous point. Here we experience a federal government that says that has already time, the Constitutional Court has given us a short period of time, 31. March. However, the deadline has not come from today to tomorrow, you know that too. The Committee was somewhat more honest when it presented Mr Tancsits. It was concluded by the government parties that we could not react earlier, because there were elections between them. You know when the elections were. You could have responded, therefore, that you could have made the preparations or the decision in Parliament already during the last legislative period. It didn't happen, it wasn't important to you. Let's fix it like that! On the point raised by Mr Tancsits, which he said was very long: Since 1997, there has been a scheme for small employees, which ensures the option on the part of employees. These can be opted for in the health insurance and pension insurance system by option and by contribution. Good, but actually not very good. You know, Mrs State Secretary, of this right and of this possibility, those who are actually dependent on minor employment – and there are, sometimes they have two or three minor jobs, sometimes just one – can only make very little use of them, because they do not have the money and simply need the money to survive. To them it is not a great help if you offer them this option. It would therefore be more correct and cleaner to make this the way in which the Socialist Group has proposed in its proposal to consider, in principle, whether or not one has a mutual contribution, namely an employer's and employee's contribution, to the small workers' contribution, and that is why the matter has been raised. Then they are insured, then there is no longer the option that can also be used by those who need it most urgently. On the one question that Mr Silhavy has already asked you, I think you know the answer yourself well enough. What about these small employees now in the new pension law? – If someone has really been very busy for a few years or several years, he or she is one of the absolute losers of your pension reform, because it is mostly women. They can say already today: Thank you, the Federal Government of the year 2003, you have put this misery into us! – Mrs State Secretary, there would be an answer from your side, which at least makes it clear that you think about this group, even more necessary. By the way: We agree with this amendment, too. She's better than nothing. In this Federal Government, we are at all times happy if it does something more than nothing.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12903	Mr Dolinschek, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European The clock is set to 5 minutes, as desired. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12921	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! The reason for today's decision is a knowledge of the Constitutional Court of Justice of the 7th century. ==References== In this respect, the Constitutional Court has considered the service provider's contribution, which has been legally established since 1998, to be unconstitutional for persons with minor employment in the existing form and from 31 December 1998 onwards. ==References====External links== The provisions could not be based on the competence of the social security system or on the competence of the tax system. This service provider's contribution was introduced in 1998, because it is increasingly common to see a fragmentation of regular full-time periods. and part-time jobs in several minor jobs. Without a replacement scheme, pension and health insurance would lose €50 million annually. The Federal Act on a flat-rate payment of service providers now provides that entrepreneurs must pay this federal tax to the extent of 16.4 percent of the monthly earnings in the sum of the minor employees, including special payments dedicated to the social security purpose, which is abolished by the health insurance companies. 76.5 percent are for pension insurance and the remaining 23.5% for health insurance, they are to be transferred to the health insurance fund. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this legislative initiative is to re-write the constitutional basis of this competence of the tax system by transferring the content of the repealed provisions to the Service Provider Tax Act. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It appeared appropriate that the service providers of minor persons whose activities contribute to the economic success of a company, as well as the activity of full-time workers, should be used to finance the social protection of their employees. At the same time, the aim was to eliminate the competitive advantages of service providers with small employees vis-à-vis service providers with compulsoryly insured employees, thus limiting the service provider's tendency to stop minor employees in order to avoid the obligation to contribute. Now we have just chosen this scheme. In principle, the proposal has also been well-appointed, prepared and proposed by the social partners. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important to restore this constitutional state. In principle, however, we should continue to have a discussion on how little employees in Austria can even see what insurance opportunities exist for this group and what we can improve in this area. Debates on minor employees are therefore in any case also to be held at parliamentary level in the future in order to achieve improvements.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12972	Mrs Haubner has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e12994	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the plenary! I think that, as I said in committee, we should not mix two things: One is the formal issue today – a legislative initiative that continues to establish a good legal situation and legal situation so far, has been repealed by the Constitutional Court for purely formal reasons, and it is intended to restore legal certainty with today's decision-making. This provision was adopted in 1997 in agreement with the social partners. - That's one. The second is the discussion on quality improvement in an area where two thirds of women are employed. The figures for March 2003 are as follows: In Austria, there were a total of 218,931 people, of whom 154 were 919, more than two thirds were women. The trend is slightly rising. Therefore, when we discuss the quality of these working conditions, the question arises: Do we even want more women to take on more atypical service relationships, in which case even slightly employed ones? – This is the fundamental question for me, because, especially in the context of the debate on pension reform, the problem arises over and over again that women have too little contribution periods or too low contribution periods and therefore also receive a very low pension at age. You know, the retirement pension of women is almost two-thirds lower than that of men. The average age of women is 637 €. Therefore, for me, the question is: What do we want? Do we want to continue writing a working relationship in which, although admittedly appropriate health and pension insurance contributions are made by both employers and employees, this in turn provides a basis for assessment which is relatively low? Or do we want these employment conditions to be the exception in the future and, rather, to give those women who want to or need to work the chance to enter properly insured employment? At the moment, you know that as I do, women in particular have the opportunity to take out voluntary insurance. You, Mr Oellinger, said that no one can afford it. I know that the earnings of a small employment relationship are small. The contribution is around 43 € per month. But it is true that many women don't use this opportunity so much because of the self-retardant ability, but that many women don't even know that there is this possibility. Therefore, before this question is finally resolved, we should first better inform women and tell them that they have this opportunity. If the new pension reform is taking place, it is particularly important that they know that they can insure, because then the contribution times are important for the calculation. And we will shorten the calculation period for women, especially if they also have children in addition to employment. If a woman – this has been mentioned many times today, but I still say it again – per child... – It is enough for a child, then three years will be taken out. [[Abg. Oillingers: You can't have so many children that it's going to be better!]] Women have very irregular working processes. Many women do not work very little for a lifetime. Women have little employment, they work part - time and thank God for many full - time years. That is why I think it is important to say on the one hand, in connection with this debate: If you have a working relationship to the extent of a minor employment, you should voluntarily be insured in order to be able to make it possible for the pension later on. On the other hand, the question arises: What are we doing? Do we really want that? That is why I invite the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, which has already been mentioned in the Committee on Social Affairs, to consider jointly what we can do in this context within the framework of a working group. Personally, the women's concerns are very important to me, and I know that the women's typical working processes are the same. We really don't need to think about it. Furthermore, it was asked why this law is only now, namely with 1. In June 2003, it entered into force. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, then “only” Federal Minister Mag. A working group was set up before the summer of 2002 to clarify the question: In what direction should we change this law, either in the direction of tax law or in the direction of constitutional law? – This working group has done so, and then – you all know – the elections took place. But we have not been the ones who have called the elections. [[Abg. Oils: You don't know that exactly!]] It was therefore not possible to make this change in a timely manner. There is therefore a very simple explanation for this. If you say that €10 million has been lost for social security, then I have to say, I really regret that, but I think the social security funds are institutions where there are still a lot of privileges – maybe you can start there and save these €10 million. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, I would like to say the following: We have talked a lot about quality improvements today. I think it's fair to do something for those who work hard so that they also have safety in old age. In this context, I would like to quote my dear colleague Max Walch in a modified form: In connection with the review of the present draft pension reform, we liberals have now shown that we are those who listen, who think and then act! And so we could do it with this problem. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13055	Thank you very much, Mrs State Secretary. Mr Riepl has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). He wants to talk to us for five minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13076	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda, as my previous speakers have pointed out, is intended to pay contributions that employers pay to social security for workers. It is about the Constitutional Court that an existing set-aside of employers' contributions for minor employees in the spring of last year has been abolished and the government has been able to make a repair for one year. However, I would like to say that this has been forgotten, Mrs State Secretary. The deadline has expired, and too late will now be decided on this today's repair – quite specifically at two months too late, because today's regulation only enters into force with 1. In June. In other words, employers save themselves for the months of April and May to pay contributions for their small employees. However, this has already been pointed out. I think that this is a kind of additional-cost gift from the government by simply saying that there has been a working group anyway, but it has not been able to meet any more because of the elections. In reality, however, it looks as if the intention would have been and that is only the last moment when we take action. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Did you not listen to what Mrs. State Secretary said?]] [[Interlocutory remark by Secretary of State Haubner.]] Mrs. State Secretary, you personally have nothing to do with it, because you have not been in that position at the time, that is right. In the end, however, you leave out those colleagues who actually have the responsibility. This is also a “beautiful” picture that we experience there. [[State Secretary Haubner: I'm strong enough!]] Who is responsible, in fact, for the damage suffered by social security by this loss of contributions? Who's responsible for it? Who is responsible for this? You or Mr. Vice-Chancellor or the entire government? – It’s about the “littleness” of “only” € 10 million or around 140 million schilling, which is now missing. Social security is systematically reduced by this government and this policy – in this case I would almost say, which means almost, I say it: negligently – revenue is reduced, reduced. It is then perhaps still claimed that the health insurance companies cannot operate. This is a procedure which, in my opinion, is unacceptable, and in view of the need to ask the question: Who is responsible for that? – After the previous speeches by speakers from the government parties and also after your speech, Mrs. State Secretary, I have found no one or I have not heard anyone say: Something happened to us, we're trying to do this quickly. Mr Tancsits, a few days before the end of this period, makes a request, but otherwise nothing happened. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Today it happened! Ms Hostasch was then Minister, Mr Riepl!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What happens if, for example, students don't pay tuition fees for two months? – Then there are sanctions, then they are not allowed to learn anymore. What happens if an employer doesn't pay a wage for two months? – Then he will find himself in front of the labour court, and there the worker judge will judge on behalf of the Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You didn't think about it in 1997!]] But if the government or the government parties cause damage due to non-trafficking, as one actually has to experience – 140 million schilling damage to the social security funds that any schilling would need – then there are no sanctions, then there is no condemnation and not even an excuse. No, Mr Tancsits speaks as employee representatives, as if this were all right and goes against our criticism with no word. [[Abg. May. Tancsits: You have passed the wrong law!]] You are going to the agenda, and we are very clearly criticising the Socialist Group so that as many people as possible in this country can learn how to deal with health insurance and social security schemes. According to the ambulance charges that cost more than they bring, this is now another example of damage to social security schemes. Mrs. State Secretary! I have the impression that this is slowly becoming a system in the government: One imposes burdens on social security, assigns new tasks to them, and minimises the basis for contributions. They say it hasn't taken place since that time. I ask you: Why didn't this happen in January? - We had a meeting in January. At that time, the elections had long been over. The trader could have filed this request at any time. The argument that this has not been possible in time, I do not take it – do not be evil to me – from you. This is not right, because we could have dealt with the request in January at the first meeting of this legislative period without further delay and reorganised the problem in such a way that no damage to social security would have been incurred. I would ask you to pay more attention to the fact that things are no longer happening in your future government. And I ask once again, I ask you quite specifically: Who's responsible for it now?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13178	Mrs Marek has now been reported to the House. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13196	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Dolinschek's request, Mr Mag. Tancsits, colleagues and colleagues are exactly in line with the 1997 social partners' solution, which was drawn up in a broad consensus at the time. The fight against abuse, especially in minor service relations, is of course also an important concern for the Austrian People's Party and for me. However, this must be done by means other than those proposed by SPÖ in its application. It is therefore necessary to make minor service conditions for employers more unattractive in order to reduce this form of employment in favour of part-time and full-time models. That doesn't sound bad in itself, but it won't work like that. It would be blue-eyed to think that this would happen. On the contrary: There would then often be no more service relations at all and some of the persons concerned would even be forced into black jobs. And this would be a significant deterioration, especially for women who use about two thirds of the minor service conditions. According to a study by the Institute for Higher Studies, IHS, two thirds of the minor employees with the intention of secondary income are in addition to training, self-employed or self-employed employment, but also in addition to childcare in such jobs. For many people, such an activity means entering the labour market. And what this possibility means for women in particular, I don't need to explain here any further. I should also like to quote the study mentioned above, which is that 95 percent – unfortunately, Mr Oellinger is not present – did not have a multiple income on the basis of parallel minor jobs. The level of satisfaction of more than 16 200 persons surveyed with minor employment was also exceptionally good. Only 17 percent reported being less or less satisfied with their employment situation. As we have already heard, some 70 percent of all minor employees are covered by other insurance contracts, such as co-insurance or insurance on the basis of self-employed or self-employed employment. And also the opt-in offer offers the interested parties the very favourable opportunity to be able to insure themselves at a fair price. The concern that the financial resources for voluntary insurance would not be available could also be rejected in the study. It therefore raises the question of how responsible a conscious reduction in this form of employment would be, and also of how far one could support those who want to help. I don't think so. For example, if I go out of my own situation, I can only say that I was very happy to be able to earn little money as a single mother during the karenz. Unfortunately, at the time – my son was born in 1993 – there was not yet the possibility of opting-in, and unfortunately there was no childcare allowance. But what I experience in my daily practice as CEO of a Vienna high-tech company is the rapid change of our working world. The development of new technologies, increasing mobilization and flexibilisation, as well as the increasing demands on workers, create problems, but also great opportunities of which we have not even dreamed of ten years ago. In these areas, policy needs to develop and define framework conditions that allow workers to take real opportunities, but also provide appropriate protection against potential risks. The working world has changed, as have the people in most industries – thank God! – have become much more self-confidence and self-responsible than before. Terms such as teleworking, work-life balance and diversity have long been no longer just keywords and urgently require adaptations of existing regulations and regulations. We also need to work on ongoing improvements to the compatibility of family and work. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] These are the topics I have been working on intensively for several years. I very much hope that I will join you in the House, which I have been to since 20. On December of the previous year, there may be a positive move. I look forward to a good, constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13260	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Prammer. I'd like to set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13279	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! It was very interesting, Mrs State Secretary, to listen to you. They told us that before the summer there was the intention of the then Social Minister to set up a working group. [[Secretary of State Haubner: She passed!]] - She even passed. What's been discussed? – No change in content, but only a formal change, namely the question: Do we put the whole thing in another formal right or do we make a constitutional law? I am quite surprised, Mrs. State Secretary! I take it from you that you are concerned with questions of content. But obviously in the summer of last year the government parties did not have a debate on the content of the amendments, otherwise you would have had to use another working group. It is therefore very interesting to hear that, because, in view of that, I lack any belief that the ÖVP is planning to make real changes in content. What's this about? – In contrast to my previous speaker, Mrs Marek, it is quite simply about making it not so easy and quite unattractive to have the number of minor employment relationships exploded. Before this insurance obligation, there has nevertheless been an annual increase in small employment ratios of around 10 percent. After the introduction of this insurance obligation by the entrepreneurs, this has been reduced to 3 to 4 percent. It is therefore helpful to take stronger action here. This is also the reason why we have requested the introduction of the insurance obligation on the part of the entrepreneur in the event of a minor service relationship. Mrs Marek has also pointed out what is really very important to me. Mr Tancsits said that 10 per cent had little employment, the rest had something else anyway. – That’s not true! It is about a quarter to a third of the small employees who have no other income that have no other employment relationship. What does that mean when I refer to the so-called pension reform that is now primarily affecting women? – You can choose now, they have the choice between plague or cholera. Because either they get into the option of voluntary re-insurance. This, of course, brings them all together in terms of the calculation period. Or they say we don't act, then we're not insured. But then it'll put them all together as far as insurance times are concerned. – So they can choose what they want. In any case, at the end of the day, they are the so-called “beggars”, as they say so salopp in Austria. This is really the worst thing about it! There is indeed a need for action, and I do not make any sense that I believe we must live in a solidarity community in which it is not a matter of allowing an employment relationship outside this Solidarity Community – whether it be small employees, part-time workers or other new forms of employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only in this way does our solidarity really exist in the future. At the end of this working life, it does not help to tell people what they are missing. At the same time, the contributions also failed in the insurance stopper. Mrs State Secretary, we have already offered you our cooperation in committee. That's what it's gonna do. I really believe that there is an urgent need for action among small employees and that it is high time to take a second stage here after the first one was introduced in 1997.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13327	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Dr. Drinkl. 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13346	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are now several speakers on the possibility of abuse or the prevention of abuse, which should be considered by the involvement of minor employees. I should like to remind you that there are 210 000 employees in 80 000 companies in Austria. Today's application for a flat-rate levy for small employees affects 15,000 companies in Austria. 15,000 with 210 000 small employees! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I do not see this huge danger of abuse as being actually given. The fact is that minor jobs arise for a variety of reasons. These can be on the side of the employer that he can only offer this job in one day for me, but also on the side of the adulterer, who can only pursue an activity. I should like to remind you that many minor jobs have been deliberately pursued in the private sector in order to pave the way out of illegality, especially those employees, mostly ladies. That was the motivation at the time. On the other hand, it was more than 40 years in this country that the vast majority felt that minor employment should not be included in social security, because it was precisely not intended to make contributions from micro-incomes, but, of course, should not become claims. At the end of the nineties – that has already been said – this has changed. At that time, the key word was: Inclusion of all incomes into social security obligations. At the time, we made it possible for workers to opt-in at a very favourable rate – one often speaks of discount insurance here – and have said that those employers who have several minor employees should make a contribution. I should like to remind you, above all, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, that these decisions preceded intensive negotiations by the social partners at the time. Today, Mr President, we are still confessing to these agreements. Not so, I think, the SPÖ, otherwise her request would not be imaginable today. Its application concerns 15 000 entrepreneurs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] They want the social security obligation or the tax duty to be introduced from the point of view of the low-quality limit. We don't want that. We want to leave out small jobs in the private sector, where only a small employee is usually used. They also want to purchase that we also subject minor employees in private households to insurance obligations. That's not our way. We want to separate between employment in companies and in households. That was right at the time, and that's right today. You will therefore understand that we cannot join your request because, I believe, it is far beyond the goal. Mr Riepl! You have sorely lamented here that the late submission of this application, which has been admittedly late, loses €10 million. I would remind you that we were together in the government that it was your Minister Hostasch who presented this constitutional proposal to the House here. So wear it. At least you also have a good share of debt in resolving this solution. One thing I can say: The Constitutional Court will certainly not suffer the damage arising from such a submission. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I should like to remind you that you have called for the pension reform to be postponed by the year 2010 in an hourly debate today. They risk that Year after year 1 billion € must be spent in addition to the pension system we do not have. You are very generous when it comes to carrying out your ideas, but you are small when it comes to assessing income, which is actually very low, also favourable. We are committed to the solution that was reached at the time, and we now want to ensure it in a constitutional manner also for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13443	The last speaker to speak was Mr Schopf. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13461	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the outset, I would like to comment by Mrs Haubner: Those women who are minorly employed would in many cases be willing to insure themselves, but the problem was that women are too little informed. [[State Secretary Haubner: That's right too!]] Mrs State Secretary, I have been working for many years in the advisory service within the Trade Union Confederation, and I have consulted hundreds of Members who are engaged in the field of indifference. I have always pointed out voluntary insurance in every consultation. The main problem, therefore, is not information. All the Members told me that they simply can't afford it, because the merit in this area is so low that they have no way of handing over social security contributions on their own. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned by my previous speakers that the Constitutional Court has ultimately repealed this law as unconstitutional. I would like to stress once again the date of this abolition. He was not two months ago, or four months ago, but on 7 June. March – not 2003, but 2002! I repeat: ==References== This provision was repealed by the Constitutional Court of Justice on 1 March 2002, i.e. more than a year ago. Why such a scheme was introduced in 1998 has already been explained. We also know very well that this provision, this law, had a very positive effect. The number of minor employees fell, while the number of colleagues working in this area decreased. But this, as I mean, right and positive trend, threatens to reverse – and is at present – due to the inactivity of the ÖVP and the liberals, as there are no such new regulations to date. It would have been very easy to repair this law in recent months, in recent weeks or a year ago, or to deal with a new request in this House. Only a few days ago, specifically since 26. In March, much too late, a request was made in this respect, which again provides for a corresponding delivery from the service providers. This regulation – as it is apparent in the application – is intended to be adopted on 1 January. ==References== I think that such a measure, such a way too late, is inexcusable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy have pointed out: This non-retirement, with this gross negligence, added damage to Austrian social insurance of over €10 million – that is, Mrs State Secretary, 140 million Schilling – and concrete €2 million of Austrian health insurance and more than 8 million of Austrian pension insurance. If you look at this in detail, you can see what you could have done with this 140 million schilling, Mrs State Secretary! One could, for example, have been able to help 2,000 people in need of rehabilitation alone in the field of pension insurance. In Upper Austria, for example, 3 200 children could have been able to create a permanent tooth or jaw regulation. This failure has therefore caused a gross negligence and a massive error on the part of the government. It is just typical for this government that mistakes like these happen. Completely “at random” the service providers will benefit from this error in the same order of € 10 million. However, when it comes to burdens on workers, workers, workers, pensioners, and also on the sick, the government is pressing at the pace. I recall today's debate on pension reform. If you want to get money and benefits for the service providers, a lot of time will be lost. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a fact that over 200 000 people are already employed in the field of poverty. We know – the Secretary of State has already mentioned it today – that there is a slight increase in this group of persons over the next few months or years. It is therefore important not only to regulate this tax today or shortly, but above all to improve the situation of small workers. That is, we need insurance, insurance for this group. However, the People's Party and the Liberals have done nothing in this area as far as the quality of the law is concerned. We did not expect anything else from the ÖVP. And once again, the liberals prove that their speech, Mr. Max Walch, of the “little man” is just hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13505	Mr President, I should like to thank The accusation of hypocrisy means in itself a call for order. I would ask you not to refer this to Mr Walch.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13520	I did not, of course, refer to Mr Walch. However, if one had acted as quickly as in some calls for action in this legislative proposal, then it would not be necessary to deal with this problem today. With one word, ladies and gentlemen: I believe that this government is an ever-increasing use for workers. These will not, we know very well, make this happen any longer. I can promise you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13554	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which lays down a Federal Act on a flat-rate payment of services of minorly employed persons and amends the General Social Insurance Act, including title and receipt in 63 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this law to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this law in third reading to give a similar sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of its report 64 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. 5. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (24 of the Supplements): Federal Law on Mediation in Civil Law (ZivMediatG) and on Changes to the Marriage Law, the Civil Procedure Order, the Criminal Code, the Court Fees Act and the Childhood Law 2001 (47 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13621	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Dr. Fekter with a voluntary time limit of 6 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, speak to us!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13645	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Values of My Ladies and gentlemen! I am very proud that we are going to decide on this mediation law today because we are doing a pioneering job with it. We had no way to find out how other countries do, because we are pioneers in mediation. "Mediation" is a term that is not yet known in much of the population. That is why we have included a definition in the law that I now want to read to: “Mediation is a voluntary activity of the parties, in which a professionally trained neutral mediator (mediator) with recognised methods systematically promotes communication between the parties with the aim of allowing a solution of their conflict to be resolved by the parties themselves.” – Quote. It is true that the civil process, which is actually there for conflict solutions and decisions, is centuries old. If we orient ourselves to Roman law, then he is even millenniums old. Mediation is a completely new and young institute, which we have included as a legal institution for the first time after a pilot experiment and after accompanying research into marriage law and the Childhood Law Amendment Act. We are now creating the relevant professional law and framework conditions for the procedure. Although we restrict the validity or regulatory area of civil law in this law, I believe that there will be strong effects far beyond civil law. I can also imagine that we are increasing the use of mediation in other areas. Think of the neighboring right, where conflict parties often find no basis for conversation for years! Or think of the economic mediation or, more recently, the mediation of conflicts between landlords and tenants, when it is concrete in contentious Areas around investments in the house or repairs at the house goes! There is mediation in place to find an agreement between the two parties. Not always is the judge's ruling the solution that is satisfactory; also moving forward the dialogue climate is often a good solution. For this reason, I believe that mediation is the method of conflict settlement for the third millennium. With this law, we create legal certainty for the profession, but also legal certainty for the parties. It was also important for us to anchor a very high level of qualification. In order to preserve it, training for registered mediators is mandatory. It is also obvious that we now include in this new law the obligation of confidentiality plus the right of censure or the suspension of time limits, which were laid down in the legislation on matter. Therefore, in the head of the law you will also find a change of several other laws related to it. This is a pioneer achievement, as I mentioned earlier. This will surely find imitators in Europe who will come to us to write down. In this context, I would like to thank the Mediator Associations and the Ministry of Justice for the preliminary work on this very successful law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13713	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Mulder. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13731	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Not to be successful against failure, but to seek a common solution, which is certainly an essential objective of mediation. If the Civil Law Mediation Act is adopted here today, I would like to point out that mediation was started and used ten years ago as institutionalized dispute resolution. In this law one can understand a very consistent, done and thus also a very meaningful course of a law. In spring 1993, under the leadership of the then Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Family Affairs of the Model Experiment, mediation was practically tested under the supervision of social science, a report was submitted to Parliament in 1997 and practitioners and those affected were included in the discussion, and today a project was implemented that was already envisaged in the previous legislative period. One of the objectives is to establish a legal basis for conflict settlement. The question should be asked to what extent a reduction in the purely civil law sector is useful in the long term or whether an extension to public law and also to criminal law can and should be sought. There is certainly a very extensive field of activity for mediators, which should also be regulated by law. Another point is quality assurance, a cornerstone of this law. In this sense, training is also regulated. The regulation referred to in this law on training requirements is certainly important here. The devil is always in detail. The application-oriented part of the training, which is covered by point 2(c) of Section 29(2), requires accompanying participation in the practical supervision. It is particularly important to ensure that non-professors are not made much more difficult to access to this training or that it is not made impossible at all. I should like to ask the regulation to ensure that a law does not give a professional group a monopoly. If one sees this problem in connection with the planned cost replacement in the Extraordinary Law, then, if I express it Polishically now, the question arises whether mediation should be regulated by law. Because if you eliminate the basis for mediation in comparison with divorces, the question arises which mates should then at all take the course of mediation, which is expensive and costs money. If they get divorced by common accord, they also have to draw a lawyer in the divorce comparison. This results in a cost burden that average couples are likely to hardly afford. I therefore appeal to you, Minister, to reconsider the proposed novel in the extradition procedure with regard to the cost of the opposing lawyer. Mediation is therefore, on the one hand, certainly a positive regulatory instrument in the case of conflicts, it receives the legal basis, but it is expensive because it is not offered free of charge. On the other hand, the 150-year-old and proven dispute law, which provides a very easy and cost-effective access to justice in its mediation function, is to be undermined, because there is a sudden, inestimable cost risk. The mediation law as such is to be welcomed. It offers two very advanced possibilities: first of all, where it makes sense to use mediation, to take advantage of it, and second, at the same time, one can enforce one's right in the extradition procedure without taking a risk of costs. The planned cuts in the Extraordinary Law, such as the obligation of attorney or the obligation to pay costs for the opposing lawyer, must be counterproductive and therefore also rejected. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13789	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Mainoni. Speaking time: also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13808	Mr President. Federal Minister! In fact, one should not have prejudices, this law novel is the best proof of this. It must not be said that everything is bad that comes from the United States. One really cannot do this, because the mediation that has proved very successful with us in Austria has its origins in the United States. It is a recognised and successful method of out-of-court conflict resolution. The keywords of ‘cooperation instead of confrontation’, which are repeatedly used, are absolutely true in this context. Instead of losing-profit-thinking, a so-called win-win situation is to be created, which leads to this success and is now contained in this law. The mediation is forward-looking and forward-looking, and it saves – of course you shouldn't hide it – especially time and money. Experience has shown that there is a success rate of around 75 percent. That alone is enough reason to welcome this law. As pleased as this development is, there is no other development in another area, which I would like to mention in this context, namely the development of arrests in Austria. We have already discussed this in the Committee. A recent study has come to the public, because this trend in detention rates is actually so negative. This study – one should also say things openly – is clearly evidenced by this scientific study, that first of all there is a marked increase in the number of new prisons in Vienna and Austria, and that, second, the proportion of foreigners in new prisons is now almost 50 percent. If you think that today almost 50 percent of the new prisons are foreigners, so foreigners, then you should think about that. There are two main offences: These are on the one hand Eastern Europeans and on the other side Black Africans. These crime groups can be associated with certain offences, namely the Eastern Europeans with theft crimes, where there has been an increase from 2000 to 2002 from 366 percent, and the Black Africans with addiction offences, where there has been an increase of 144 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! We must not close our eyes to the security problems in Austria and before this negative development. I believe that social dreamers should finally take note of reality in the light of these statistics.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13850	The honourable Member is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Stoisits. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please. - Just 3 minutes, but I switch to 5 minutes. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Three minutes!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13884	Dobar then, poštovane lady i gospodo! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: (as the microphone has not yet been switched on) Again! We didn't hear that!]] Only three minutes of speaking time because this reasonable legal basis for consensual conflict resolution models created by Austria with the mediation law has already been detailed by our committee chairman, Mrs Becher and Mr Mainoni. We are pleased that this is a matter for decision-making today. I would like to take the opportunity to point out to the Federal Minister with this example that it is possible, even under his ministry, to succeed in the old principle of the legislative process of consensus. [[Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer: Thank you! Thank you!]] I dare to say that you probably did not contribute much more to the law than I did, but you are the minister, so you deserve the honour of being allowed to book this unanimity so to speak. However, this is probably due to the ladies and gentlemen of your ministry – and this is the example of it – who, at this stage of the drafts, the discussion, the actual ministerial draft, then the assessment phase with all the objections that have come, with all the proposals for improvement that have come, have succeeded in creating, if one wants to create product, the highest satisfaction in all circles. It is not always perfect satisfaction – we know that – but I am all the more pleased that this novelle comes to its decision. Mrs Becher has already said that mediation and conflict resolution and also the legal instruments are very forced. It is now sometimes inclined to say that this is a bit modern, but this should not be the old, traditional and proven forms and, above all, – and I think that is the most essential aspect – the access to law. Indeed, access to the right is still the most favourable in the field of extradition, because mediation is never and never free. The new professional and stand-alone representation would not have brought in this novel if it was not also about economic interests. The cake, which is distributed, should also be distributed as fairly as possible in such a way that there is also satisfaction within the interest groups. That is why I agree with the warning given to my predecessor that all these plans, which are now heard so well in relation to non-binding marriage pacts and law enforcement in all divorces, including those agreed with each other, should be considered. All of this is expensive for people, and it's all – not always – and that's why you have to be so careful – a burden of access to justice. Minister! That is why I hope that you – and the mediation law is a model for you – will go this way of searching for consensus. It is also quite appropriate in the Mediation Act that it is decided unanimously here, because it would be a rather stupid example for those concerned, we would still argue about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13947	In fact, that was only 3 minutes, Mrs. Magistra. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e13971	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you, Mrs Mag. Stoisits that you have remained true to your line: If something good comes from the ministry – and this is almost always the case – then it must not have been the minister if something less good comes, then look for a guilty person, and it must only be me. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] It doesn't matter. We understand ourselves, I believe, in the Committee on Justice. Nor could your policy prevent us from having the same consensus rate in the law of justice in the past legislative period – and probably in the current one – as in the previous decades. So let's not cheat! We work together very well, it's no shame to admit it. We live in a peaceful country. Nevertheless, mediation is certainly a good thing to be used in civil court proceedings. It has so far missed us in many areas: labour law, economic law, neighbourhood law and other areas. But let's not make a mistake: Mediation is not a better trial! The mediator creates a climate between the parties in which they find the solution themselves. This is a useful addition to the court proceedings – no more, but no less. Let's not make the mistake of saying that wherever no lawyer is allowed, access to law is better and the procedure is cheaper or cheaper! I would like to give you an example, especially you, Mrs Becher, which you have committed to doing so. If, under the pressure of a so - called unanimous divorce, a spouse refuses to hold up and this lower half is only in €200, then if she had paid €1,000 or perhaps even €2,000 for the lawyer, she will be back in five to ten months, where she would have been financially in default. This investment is all the more profitable than the lawyers – we don't make the lawyers bad – have explained that they base their costs in divorce cases at €1,000, and all the more so, as well as any Austrian who lives in appropriate circumstances, has the right to procedural assistance. I could give you more examples, but the lawyer is often a good investment, and you should not forget that sometimes without a lawyer is not possible. On the matter, back to the law: This law is a new world – please observe that! There is no such written and structured mediation law in any country of the world. Austria is a pioneer. The praise to the ministry is justified, honourable Member, it concerns mainly Dr. Stormann and Mrs. Dr. Winkler, who have brought their experience into this law. If you are satisfied with this law, you have now also learned the names of those who have actually brought themselves in personally. I believe that we have presented a good thing for the future with this law of the population. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14023	The next Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Donnerbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14042	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today's decision on its own law on mediation, as my previous speakers have already pointed out, creates an important additional instrument in order to provide, in addition to the judicial procedure – whether the disputed or the out of disputed procedure – an opportunity not to decide a conflict or a dispute but to resolve it together. That is why – and I agree with the opinion of my previous speakers – this is a very important instrument which has proved itself very well in various cases where it is already planned. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] There is nothing new in itself, for it was already possible under the State court system to bring about a common solution. Thus, it is the judge's task, as provided for in the law, to reach a kind agreement. However, in practice there are still problems, since, on the one hand, the judges may not have the appropriate training, but above all, they do not have the appropriate instruments at their disposal and, on the other hand, their main task is to ultimately make a decision in a dispute, which very often or almost always gives right to one or the other position, or precisely finds the middle between the positions. In this role of the judge, the problem lies that he cannot, like a mediator for both sides, provide constructive support for a common and common solution to the conflict, but then, if the parties cannot agree, ultimately has to take a decision. That's his primary role. For this reason, it is very important that this additional instrument be created today, but as has already been said, it is an additional instrument and should be it. There is no danger, in my opinion, as Mrs Becher said here, that a monopoly is now being brought about. On the contrary, precisely through this own law on mediation, it is ensured that access to this future profession, namely to the function of the mediator, is ultimately open to all those who are able to demonstrate appropriate professional qualifications. The technical qualification is defined in the law, I think it is correct and important that certain criteria be introduced to ensure that quality standards are introduced. In the end, it will be up to the Minister to take into account the relevant requirements of the regulation, which special technical qualifications are to be provided for, in particular which professional groups which are already engaged in dispute resolution or legal advisory activities in various areas, on the basis of their experience in practice and their training. I would like to conclude by expressing my thanks for the unanimous implementation of this bill and I am sure that the many parties or parties to the conflict will benefit us in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14088	Mr Stadlbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14106	Mr President. Minister! High house! Minister, allow me a short sidestep at the beginning: In order to protect women also in the case of divorce against overdose, I would suggest that we expand the women's advisory services and make them better financially instead of giving women expensive lawyers. Muten. But this is not in your government's programme, but would be a proposal for goodness. Ladies and gentlemen! Mediation can do much to solve conflicts positively in the sense of all parties involved, but mediation is not a cure. Mediation must not be misused to counterbalance legal claims. In this respect, I agree with Minister Böhmdorfer, and that is a good thing. For example, in divorce proceedings: On the one hand, of course, legal claims must be secured, must not fall under the table, but on the other hand, the family situation must always be considered. The family situation is only heightened and unbearable by a long process of disputed circumstances. Especially sensitive handling must be ensured in the event of danger or actual family violence. There, the mediators and mediators, in particular the judges involved, have special responsibility to assume, because mediation may be at the expense of women who are affected by violence and who give up much, just to get out of a violent relationship. It is to be considered whether mediation procedures are useful during a genuine ban. The mediation does not replace the judicial obligation and the decision of the judges. There must be no privatisation of justice. Comparatives submitted from mediation procedures must be reviewed, and where there is a problem of maladministration, those concerned must be made aware of. Ladies and gentlemen! I see § 16 as very problematic and therefore I would like to make an amendment to it. This is about the fact that it must not be the case that a lawyer first carries out mediation proceedings with a couple and then takes over the defense for one of the partners. There's rumors. In the worst case – I have already heard that – this would be so that the men who have been set up by the Federal Minister's office would be able to provide counsellors who want to pay as little support as possible and seek help from the men's department to lawyers who like to take over such cases, who can also wait with mediators who have a certain confidence in the lawyer. That is, the man is then so legally represented that he is best able to rise as it is the duty of a lawyer, and at the same time the mediation on the woman is influenced that exactly the proposal made would be the best for all. I hope it's just bad rumors. I think if someone really did act like this, it would be very bad. In order to completely rule out this abuse, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is only for clarification. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14197	The amendment was properly tabled and supported and is therefore part of the negotiation and voting process. Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Drinkl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14218	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! While the European Commission still raises questions, we are in a position here to give the answers in connection with mediation. I believe that even today's decision is a very strong proof of the progress of Austrian judicial policy, and we can all be very proud of this together. The mediation does not retroactively assess a matter – for example, the question: Who's right? – but at the heart of mediation is a common search for future solutions, and this is increasingly important in conditions that are long-term, especially in the family sector, but also in other areas of civil law. Therefore, it is no wonder that this mediation is being formulated and installed here today for the field of civil rights. But I see a huge potential outside of family law for the use of this method: in economic life. In many international companies, conflict management systems are part of the corporate culture today. Conflicts in and between companies no longer end in courts, but are solved by mediators, or it helps the mediator to resolve conflicts. I also see a large area of application for mediation in the field of labour law. Negotiations or conflict resolution in court are expensive, cost time, but also destroy confidence. Especially when service relations are to continue, mediation is a very good means of finding solutions in conflicts. With the entry of mediation into civil law, the ground for similar regulations in the public service can also be prepared. I am thinking of the environment in particular. As an example of this, I cite the pioneering role that our wife, head of state, Klasnic, took in Styria by using a mediator in connection with the construction of the 380 kV line, and suddenly the fronts got back in motion. In this way, mediation is indeed a promising way of dealing with conflicts, because every conflict also opens the way for a new beginning. Ladies and gentlemen! With this law, people can trust that they will be provided with well-trained and competent mediators in order to better solve their problems in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14263	President. — The next item is the report (Doc. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14285	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to clarify the amendment tabled by Mrs Stadlbauer. It goes on – this to the memory! – by: If someone was a party or party representative, that is, a mediator and it has reached a mediation result, so that this group should no longer be involved in the implementation of this result. – I say: That doesn't make any sense what I'm telling you about a practical example. If, for example, an agreement on the transfer of a property has been reached in the course of mediation, then, as described, the lawyer involved, for example, is not likely to pass on the basic book request, but this will normally be very cost-effective, because he has the entire documents and also serves only the purpose of implementing a final result. If these parties had to visit a new lawyer or notary, it would be costly and would not be logical in itself. This is only for clarification. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14318	The next item is Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14336	Mr President. Federal Minister! My two colleagues from the SPÖ Group have said that we naturally welcome this proposal. The SPÖ has always been in favour of mediation, has always expressed its support because it makes sense in our opinion to try to communicate and reach agreement in the dispute. As you, Mrs Fekter, have spoken about pioneering, I have to make the point – my colleague Becher has already told you – that: This mediation procedure has been in place for ten years. The only thing that is happening now – and this is also positive – is that, so to speak, a sensible path will continue. But you obviously do not. Today, a lot of positive things have been said about mediation, and I think that if one is positive about mediation, then one should be positive about the extradition procedure as it covers similar aspects. It is also a matter of reaching agreement in the dispute proceedings, in the conciliation procedure, and without risk of costs. Minister! Let me turn to a draft of your house, namely the draft to amend the dispute procedure. This is exactly the opposite of what we are deciding here today: They make it difficult for you to access the law! I know that this is particularly true with regard to rental rights. It will be more difficult for tenants to get to their right, they will have a cost risk. That is not a force for this mediation and dispute, but, unfortunately, quite the opposite. I hope that the draft dispute procedure in the course of the review and the consideration of the critical opinions that have already been received by your House will also be carried out in a similar exemplary way, as was the case in the present draft law, that the concerns are also raised in the case of the out-of-court procedure, as you have just done in the present case. I join in thanking the officials. This proposal is a very good one, and we will therefore agree to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14380	The next item is Mrs Riener's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14398	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! In my paper there is the first three times: the first one, because I am standing here for the first time and speaking, the second one for this first federal law on mediation – I am pleased that it has come to this – and the third for the following circumstance: I don't know if there are trained mediators among the MPs, so if I was the first mediator here, the fact is: I finished my Mediator training a month ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] From the basic professions, I am a diploma social worker and psychotherapist towards systemic family therapy. I have worked for twelve years in a district headquarters, where I have very often had to make opinions on the family court in the area of custody, custody law and the right to visit. I have come to the issue of mediation through training and have found that this regulation is a good one. My experience was: Even though parents did not come to me voluntarily regarding statements I had to make, but I had to invite them, both parents participated in the solution. From that point on, I had only a common right to visit, which was recorded with a signature. I also noticed in my work that these regulations were much more viable because they ultimately came from those concerned themselves. This method is also very important in the field of economic mediation. Finally, despite personal suffering, it is about supporting the performance of employees in a conflict and raising the company's productivity. This also ensures the economic location of Austria, which the ÖVP under Chancellor Schüssel was always a big concern and is also. This law provides security in several respects. It offers safety, in particular for those concerned, so that they do not miss any deadlines when they take the time to talk to each other. It also provides security with regard to the fact that they have competently trained mediators. Finally, it is also true that this method of whole style changes positively in dealing with each other, which is particularly important to us as an ÖVP with Christian-social values. In the case of conflicts that are not resolved, there are only losers. Conflicts, where there are winners and losers, mean that there is often revenge. Finally, in mediation everyone can remember the face, and this style of mediation I wish all of us for the next weeks in this house as a special challenge.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14447	The fourth one is apparently a “very good” of the political groups. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] No further words are available here. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 47 of the Supplements, Committee report. Mr Stadlbauer and Mr Colleagues have tabled an amendment. I shall first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft, which have not yet been voted on. Mrs Stadlbauer has tabled an amendment to Articles I, 16 and 22 of the Rules of Procedure. 1 refers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who join this amendment tabled by Mr Stadlbauer to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request was therefore not accepted at second reading. We shall immediately vote on the relevant parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, and I will ask those Members of the House who give their consent to it for a sign. – This was unanimously adopted at second reading. We shall immediately vote on the remaining parts of the draft, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and I would ask for a sign in the event of approval. – These parts of the draft were also adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give a sign. . I note that the proposal was adopted unanimously at third reading. We have done this part of the agenda. 6. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (26 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Youth Court Act 1988 and the Law on Organisation of Justice (48 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14521	We're coming to 6. Agenda item. Mr Jarolim was the first speaker to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14542	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The destruction of the Jugendgerichtshof – and that is what this new law is supposed to achieve – is probably one of the worst events in the development of criminal law in Austria. As we spoke about pioneering at the previous item on the agenda, I must say that this destruction is a pioneer achievement of irresponsibility, an exaggeration of animosities against any science and, above all, extreme cynicism. In fact, it reminds me of the procedure of the Interior Minister Strasser, who is trying to sell all the serious Austria here, that he is doing something for the security of the country. Mr Mainoni, you know what I mean. In fact, he locks out one commissioner after another. He sends the best people, such as General Schnabl, into retirement and even employs as their successors as unfit persons by the Commission. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Minister! I don't know how you had this idea of who was born the idea of crushing the Jugendgerichtshof. I couldn't take it out of a single program of a political party. There's never been anyone who said there was a fe... In this country, there is a shortage that is absolutely to be reconciled, and that is the youth court that has been dissolved. On the contrary: There are a large number of domestic and foreign experts who have described this institution as a highly efficient body in the fight against crime, because the Jugendgerichtshof, like no other Court of Justice in that country, has shown that it is possible to deal with young people who have become criminalised in such a way that the relapse rate falls more than in other courts. If the young people do not understand, to think that those who are socially concerned deserve to be caught up, it is at least a social goal to have a social need to ensure that crime is as low as possible as possible because we are all affected by it. Federal Minister! I didn't understand why you've been so “down ” on this issue because you had never initially made it to your theme. In the meantime, I have heard – I have also followed this in the context of the discussion before the elections – that this idea was originally not yours, but has partly come from the ÖVP club. Mrs Fekter, I would ask you to explain here and today whether this is true and, if so, why you have put this project in the foreground, although you have stated before the elections that it is a project that does not agree with you. It is true that today you have not only accompanied this sad process, but have even inspired it. I would ask you to comment on whether you are really responsible or whether you are distanced from it, and if you distance yourself from why you will vote this way today. That's you, I think, guilty of this country. Ladies and gentlemen! We have tried to make every matter really involved in the discussion. We have also organised a survey and have asked scientists from both home and abroad to explain why this measure is a judicial insanity. The result is known to you – perhaps not every one of you, but I would ask you to really look at this issue again. The time is too short to examine all the questions, perhaps it would be too much to ask, but if you know that a measure is now being put in place, which definitely does not have a single positive aspect, but only worsenings, if you know that this measure is probably only put out of emotionality – and after now no one is assigned to the Minister – then you should, I think, let reason take action on this question again. Federal Minister! My request to you would be to agree to a referral back. We make a request for referral back to committee so that we can take a closer look at all of this. I'm appealing to Their generosity, so as not to vote in favour of a draft, of which no one serious expert says he is reasonable. We want and should take a closer look at the consequences of this measure. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! I would ask you to deal very seriously with this issue. It's not just about the penitentiary, it's also about you tearing down a unit here. There is also youth crime without being sentenced to prison. It is also a question of dealing with social problems in families, namely, with matters of duty. The issue is that people under the age of 14 pay attention to what is happening in these families, centrally from a Court of Justice for all of Vienna; therefore, everyone knows who is to be cared for and can be dealt with very efficiently with these cases. By tearing down the Jugendgerichtshof, this central administration is divided into twelve courts throughout Vienna, and with this a fragmentation takes place, which naturally causes a deterioration in dealing with young people, especially in order to prevent these young people from becoming criminal. I don't know what to do with it. I do not have the hope that you will agree to this, but nevertheless I appeal to you to consider this measure once again and really give reason a chance. That would be my great wish. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you: Please consider carefully what, how and with what responsibility you are voting on here today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14639	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14658	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Jarolim, I have listened very attentively to you and have to say: [[Abg. May. Gaßner: It's good too!]] In fact, you have made no single argument in the substance, not one! I'm bitterly disappointed because I expected a little more. [[Abg. May. Worm: Nothing?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further lively calls to the SPÖ.]] Mrs Wurm, I will come to you very specifically. Ladies and gentlemen! You've got to break this up on your tongue! You need to know that accommodation in the punishment you so highly praised for young people is currently anything but a human execution. We're going here and we're improving this performance, and you're not going to do that! You have to explain this to me very precisely, ladies and gentlemen. I am telling you – I am now going into the matter – that we have a problem with young people who have become guilty, because it is obvious that some problems are becoming more and more common, that more and more of the young perpetrators have the following side-effects: They are more illiterate, they have a high degree of violence, they have increased mental damage, they have increasingly fallen home to drug use and uncritical consumers. Ladies and gentlemen! That's where we have to go! [[Abg. May. Worm: That's where we have to go about education policy!]] There is something we need to do, but we should not go here and defend something that is not worth defending. For if this is as good as you say, Mr Jarolim, I ask you: Why did you only set up this in Vienna, but not in Innsbruck, not in Graz and not in Linz? – This is a difficult “failure ” for young people if you feel it is so good. I do not understand, Mr Jarolim. [[As a result of this, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the European Parliament. Mainoni and Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann.]] The benefit of justice and the privileges set for the juvenile criminal in the interests of his health in the law continue to benefit him, and I stand to do so because I believe in a resocialization of the juvenile offenders! But I think that for the time being there would be other things to do that might prevent the young person from even becoming a criminal! To improve the framework conditions – which I think is worthy of human beings, I think is a youth – we should look at this, Mr Jarolim, but not at the ridiculousness in which the implementation takes place. It is not the subject of the Juvenile Penalty with President or without President. This may be the SPÖ, but certainly not a youth who has become a criminal offence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I wonder what the SPÖ justice policy is seriously concerned with. Who? Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, is that what you are talking about? Which interests do you represent? If you ask the young people – I saw the television show at the time – what they really want is what they are talking about, then you will learn that the young people, for example, are very happy to accept longer outdoors in the youth sentence. They want to play football longer, to kick longer, that is, they don't want to be so early behind the lock and bars, Mrs. Wurm. [[Abg. May. Worm: That is not the case in the Josefstadt!]] I would really recommend you go with me in Graz to the ports and let's look at the conditions there! There is really much to do there, much to improve, but not in the way one deals with the structures and with the Presidency. In reality, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to achieve anything. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Many of the juvenile offenders are not powerful in German because they are not Austrians, namely, about a third. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Only because many are not Austrian does that not mean that they are not powerful in the German language!]] What can be done if people are taught German in the port today, if they may also be taught a profession that could be expanded and how much money we could actually save ourselves, I would have liked to hear from the SPÖ. You would have represented those to be represented, ladies and gentlemen. I'll tell you: We have big problems. But we have a problem not only with juvenile offenders, but also with young people who are not yet punished. I am afraid that sooner or later we will have much more intensive work to do in this body. [[Abg. May. Worm: Better earlier!]] To put it there would be highly rewarding. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I'll tell you something. I believe that the family policy of the Wolfgang Schüssel or the family policy of the government is the much better prophylaxis than many of your projects and attempts. And I'll explain to you why. What is happening to young people today is a loving admission, a relationship, is a parent house, are borders, Mrs. Colleague! [[Abg. Mandak: Missing Fathers!]] [[Abg. Rest-Hinter: Missing Fathers!]] [[Further lively calls at the SPÖ and the Greens:Feeling Fathers!]] Young people have a right to borders, and I say to you that this is more significant than the justice policy that you have proclaimed and which is so well perceived in this area. [[Call:A right to fathers]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to discuss this with you because I would like to get to know your models. I have a lot to do with young people who have become criminal. Sometimes I have the impression that you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, do not know what you are talking about, and I am sorry, in the interest of the young people we represent here.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14853	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e14871	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr Miedl, have you not heard any arguments so far? – Yes, because there is no one for the abolition of the Jugendgerichtshof! Because there's no one, that's why we can't bring up any! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But I can give you the arguments that have been put against the abolition of the Jugendgerichtshof, and I will do so. So much time must be today, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Miedl, because you're always talking about Graz and it's like the world's healing there. Do you know what's going on in the Grey House after 3:00 p.m. in Vienna? – 1 300 prisoners and 35 officials working there. 1 300 prisoners and 35 posts occupied! – And you think this is a decent and perfect youth penalty? Mr Miedl! Excuse me, if I tell you the following now, but I have to, after listening to you earlier: You have no idea what is happening here in Vienna! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] All right, you are a Styrian Member, but then let us have the right to something that was a model worldwide! The Vienna Jugendgerichtshof has brought Austria fame and recognition throughout the world, but the Minister removes it and destroys these structures. Mr Miedl, let us put forward the arguments with which we defend ourselves against this measure. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I am also going to be angry if you pretend to be the only one who understands something about young people and juvenile offenders. Granted, I'm not a gendarmerie officer or a police officer, but unlike you, I've been working in judicial policy for a while, and I know what's happened in recent years. What is happening now is, Mr Minister – I have already told the Minister in committee – a grotesque! This is a Grotesque first order that takes place between you and the former President of the Jugendgerichtshof Jesionek to say it personified. Well, now I could say that two men have a problem, so to speak, but that is being carried out on the back of the Vienna Jugendgerichtshof and the Vienna Jugendgerichtshilfe, and that is shameful, Mr Miedl! That's disgraceful! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Now I come to the facts: All of this has already happened. What we are doing today is, as it were, a legal downwatering. The facts have long been created. Thankfully, on the basis of an initiative by the SPÖ, we had the opportunity to listen to those ladies and gentlemen who really have expertise – I do not want to say, unlike Mr Miedl, but in any case contrary to me, because I am not an expert – so to hear what is happening there. And I would like to put that in short, because it was unfortunately not a single Member of a government party at this interesting event, where facts could be heard, namely those experts who work on the living object, as it were, working with the young people. A youth judge, Mrs. Rätin Dr. Matschnig, said what happened there. Although she did not say this literally, these are now my words – I don't want to put them in the wrong light somehow – but: Every day the law is broken, namely the Jugendgerichtsgesetz. This is broken every day with the knowledge of the Federal Minister, because the important conditions are missing, for example because the necessary separation of adults and young people in the Grey House is not possible. This is a daily breach of law. Mr Minister, I ask you: Turn him off! You have to answer this daily breach of law because you have driven the servants of the Jugendgerichtshof and the judicial guards into this situation. That's reality there! I am not talking about seclusion cells and correction cells in which young people are put into – I am now talking about that – but I am talking about the everyday situation in which these young people are located. There would really be resocialization. Professor Friedrich said something at this event that made me very supportive. He said that every single youth prisoner – this is obviously his experience as a youth psychiatrist over years – comes from a family that is on average documented with at least 20 police interventions before the young person gets into conflict with the court, in which case with the youth court. – This is very alarming, and I was not aware until this moment. There I go with Mr Miedl in conformity, there is prevention, there is youth welfare in order. There Mr. Bundeskanzler – supposedly family chancellor – really has the opportunity to do something. But not so, Minister of Justice, because the entire action on the abolition of the Jugendgerichtshof does not include anything that improves quality. I don't know if I said it in committee, if not, I'll tell you now: I have a presumption beyond the Groteske Bernhard’s style, which has played out here, why it all happened this way. – This is where the Empire, the Ministry of Justice and the political leader of Böhmdorfer, is turning back, because three years ago, when it came to the reduction of maturity – relatively emancipatoryly, we MEPs have behaved towards the Ministry – the Parliament has asserted that certain benefits in the law of youth criminal law will also affect so-called young adults between 18 and 21 years of age. This has not really found 100 percent of the red tape's approval – obviously, because no provision was made for it, neither budget nor personnel nor other resources – and therefore, I guess, gentlemen in the Ministry of Justice have said with the male chief Bohemian: Now let's show them what that means! In fact, circumstances have actually occurred that are not correct. It was too little space, it was carried back and forth, but it would have been your job to take care of it. What's the result of the whole thing? – It is literally made about the heads of youth politics in the worst sense. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That's why we've tried to make this public, which today's reality in the Juvenile Penalty in the Grey House: sleeping, watching TV, eating, watching TV, sleeping. That's what the young people can do there. Far and wide there is no meaningful leisure, because there are no possibilities, because there is a concrete court, but no sports ground, because there is no staff that cares about it. But you know that much better than I do, Mr Minister, because you are responsible, not me. It was not ideal in the past either. The situation in the Rüdengasse was beyond ideal. What has been criticized in the cells has rightly been criticised for what is really illegal to human rights. Their task would have been to stop this, but not to break down the Jugendgerichtshof. In this property in the Rüdengasse, you have invested twenty million, I think, 90 million, and now it is for sale. There are interested parties, but I'm not saying more about it now because I don't know any details either; it's being silvered. Where is he now who has said this with the non-Austrian young people who are not powerful in the German language? You say all the time that you have an idea of young people?- Oh, my God! [[in the direction of the Abg. Miedl]] Just because someone doesn't have an Austrian passport, it doesn't mean he can't get German yet. Most can at least as good German as you, Mr. Miedl!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15001	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15020	Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the emotional occupation of this subject, the church should be left in the village. Above all, one should not bring distorted representations, especially if one is uninformed. Mrs Stoisits has clearly demonstrated that she is uninformed. They claimed, for example, Mrs Stoisits, that from 15 a.m. on there were 35 judicial officers in Josefstadt for 1,000 prisoners. First of all, it is not at 3 p.m. but at 4 p.m., second there are six departments for young people, and for each department there is a separate judicial officer available until 7 p.m. [[Abg. May. Worm: But not for the young!]] The situation was no different in the prison in the Jugendgerichtshof. There there were up to 6 judicial guards for 70 prisoners. Please do not distort this, especially do you not say that politics is being made in the worst sense over the minds of young people! This is an uncertainty which is quite simply intolerable, Mrs Stoisits. There are also workshops in the prison house in Josefstadt. I don't know if you've ever been there. There are workshops for all possible professions where young people can work. There's the possibility to finish school, and much more. – As said: Please stick to the truth! But with Die-Church-in-Dorf-Lassen I mean also the SPÖ. This leaves the serious argument on the whole, if it claims – and Mr Jarolim has done so today – in the minority report, that there will be more crime by breaking down the Jugendgerichtshof, that there will be more setbacks. – How to come Do you really want to make such an uncertainty propaganda? [[Abg. May. Worm: 10 percent more prisoners!]] You know very well that the Jugendgerichtshof only existed in Vienna, that there was no own Jugendgerichtshof in other capitals. Do you want to say that this has led to more crime and higher relapses in the capitals of the country? That's paradoxical. – Please stay on the ground of reality and on the subject of argumentation, even if you do not agree with the new regulation! It is also not right that the resolution of the Jugendgerichtshof leads to a deterioration for young people. Just admit that! There is still the Jugendgerichtsgesetz, and this continues to be exercised by young judges. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: They reject this too!]] But even if there were no own youth judges, do you not believe that a judge for general criminal matters would also be able to apply the Jugendgerichtsgesetz?- Oh, my God! So much confidence you need in the training of judges that they can apply the Jugendgerichtsgesetz. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You say there's no point that's positive. – That’s not true at all! The accommodation is truly significantly improved. There are private walks, there are own rooms for training and training. There are ordination rooms for medical care, a perfectly equipped gym. The sports ground you are talking about, Mrs Stoisits, does not have some schools, but the gym is really great, you should look at it; I have already seen it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Once you remember how the premises were ordered in the Jugendgerichtshof, you will realize that this was no longer in line with the standard. I think there is also a Commission that has found that the detention rooms in the Jugendgerichtshof have no longer conformed to the Anti-Folter Convention. 9 square meters for two young people, the toilet separated only by a curtain – now there is no longer. Go, check it out! There are new, modern prisons. I've seen all this myself, or I wouldn't claim it. Of course, the idea of savings also played a role in the Minister of Justice. But that's not objectionable. There are over 1,000 square meters of office space available in the National Criminal Court in Vienna, renovated in 1997. All of this is empty, and you're supposed to let that go and pay rent in the Jugendgerichtshof? 5 million € or Schilling – it is a huge difference, but I do not know it anyway – can be saved. 1 000 hours a month by the judicial guard staff, which can be used for the employment of young people, can also be saved. They should not call into question the world's high level of youth jurisdiction by such an immeasurable criticism for the purpose of making small political money, ladies and gentlemen! Confess this reform, it is not carried out over the heads of young people, but for the benefit of young people!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15094	Mr Böhmdorfer came to speak. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15115	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The last time, such a great resistance came from the opposition ranks when we decided against their will in family law the care of both parents. You clearly felt this step at the time as a revision and correction of your social policy. – But this step was right. At the time, you have been so embroidered as you do today, very emotional, without any contentions, but today we know that the care of both parts of the population is automatically accepted; this is also true in Germany. Of 80 percent, that's a high statistical figure! That was a great success, please, take care of it at last! That was a policy of substance as it belongs to itself. [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] We also have a case-law at the Jugendgerichtshof. In contrast to you, Mrs Stoisits, I would like to make a few points so that, even if you already know it, but have not mentioned it today, you will have to justify to the public what you have let go of emotions here, and I say quite honestly to my regret at the expense of young people. They instrumentalize the fate of young people for your political attitude. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You do it!]] I don't think that's right. Listen I'm sure you'll end up with this! We took a modern step in 2001. We have – please remember, ladies and gentlemen – extended the privileges of youth criminal law to those who are up to 21 years old, as well as a step back from 19 to 18 years old. However, the grinding system has brought it to the fore that the Jugendgerichts have also become responsible for these two additional years. Please, finally accept: We have made progress here! But nothing is without consequences, and this progress has caused more people than before to fall under the law of youth criminal law or the criminal law of young adolescents. This cannot be avoided, nor can it be avoided in the future. Mrs Stoisits! We only have 40 cells in the Rüdengasse. This modernisation step, however, led to a need for imprisonment for 170 people. How has the President of the Jugendgerichtshof responded? – He placed additional beds in the existing cells, so that the situation finally contradicted the Anti-Folter Convention. That was a problem. He has not informed the ministry of this problem, we have nevertheless come to it very quickly, and I have – as you have said correctly – reacted with duty. The situation, which had occurred, was such that young people had to be constantly brought back and forth from other detention centres. That was a security risk, and this also enabled the contacts with adults we don't want and they don't have now. Why are you hiding this? Have you ever been to the Jugendgerichtshof? Were you once in the ranks of the Jugendgerichtshof, Mrs Deputies? [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Once? A lot of times!]] What did you see there? – Young people in front of the negotiating rooms next to adults. Why didn't you yell at that time? This is no longer because there is a structural separation between the prisoner's contract and the court's contract. The young people are now going straight through a door to their negotiating rooms. It didn't exist until then. The only contact that exists is theoretical: It can be seen by some adult cells in the two courts of young people, where they can walk and play sports. That's the only contact that's left. Less can't be done! In the past, much more contact with adults was possible and the corresponding safety risk was also present. I do not understand, Madam President, why you have just been silent today. [[Abg. May. Stoisits speaks to Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] I also do not quite understand why you do not consciously turn your attention to me right now, when it comes to the facts. We have implemented a reform of the law of the youth as described above, and we have also improved the enforcement of the youth penalty. There can't be any talk about us breaking up the network at all. Neither Mr Jarolim, who is no longer in the hall – thank you – nor Mrs Stoisits have made any argument that this network should no longer work. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: He's here!]] I even offered Mr. President Jesionek, with whom you presented me with a problem that I did not have, that he, with the organization he led, “White Ring” in the federal court for criminal matters Vienna Logis finds. He took it off; why, I don't know. My first contact with the ministry was that I have charged him with 100 000 S for his organization “White Ring” so that he can support crime victims. – This government was the first government to set up such a fund at all. Why are you hiding this, Mrs. Deputies? I don't think that's fair. Let me tell you again: Finally, you are interested in the construction of Jugendgerichtshof Rüdengasse! One cannot expand or supplement the 40 cells that exist there, because this building is protected by monument. You can house 170 prisoners in 40 rooms, in 40 cells. Please, tell me how you wanted to do this! On the engagement itself; I say it quite openly to you: The commitment improves God's thanks! They all know the concept of extrajudicial compensation. This is the form of the division in which the judge and/or the prosecutor sit down and make a balance between the victim and the juvenile perpetrator. This is the out-of-court case balance – a laborious case and a measure of personal commitment by a prosecutor and a judge. I now call the figures – please, take note of the commitment at the Jugendgerichtshof in Vienna; I am talking about the past, I am not criticising current court proceedings or decisions –: In the 2-million-inhabitant city of Vienna, 40 times the extrajudicial settlement was carried out, in Ried im Innkreis 61 times, in Salzburg 304 times. The only court in all of Austria, where the extrajudicial case settlement is less common than in Vienna – in the 2-million-inhabitant city! – was performed, Krems was 35 times. – That’s too little commitment! According to our actions, it has improved considerably. Vienna has quadrupled its number of extrajudicial compensations. Why? – Because you finally started to think about your own commitment. Why does it work better in the rest of Austria? – Because the best intention – and this best intention comes from 1928 – can survive once, and it has survived. In the rest of Austria, the Juvenile Penalty works better and with more commitment. They will see – as in the common care of both parents –: That is a step towards improving, that is a step towards more giving to young people, you just have to finally accept the facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15198	The next speaker is Mr Puswald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15217	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! You don't think I'm intelligible. I'm not sure I'm going to be part of an evening movie that I don't understand anymore; a movie called "Because they don't know what they're doing!" [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No! You don't know what you're talking about!]] I can only derive this from it, Mrs. Dr. Fekter, that you really don't know what you're doing. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You don't understand!]] About you, Dr. Partik-Pablé, as a learned judge, I am particularly amazed at how you argue here, where you need to know what you should do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Because you don't understand!]] And it's not surprising that you don't know what you're doing, because you reject it – contrary to all the flowering words and messages that you're ready for dialogue and information; It's not you! –, you refuse to deal with anyone who knows (a) what things are, and (b) may bring in something that is not convenient for you, but that serves the matter. [[Abg. Großruck: Who are you talking about?]] So it is that it comes as it must be: that you want to agree to a law completely uninformed here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why do you talk about something you don't understand?]] Mrs. Dr. Partition-Pablé! I can assure you that I know what I am talking about, because, in contrast to the ladies and gentlemen of the black and blue coalition, I took part in a survey, in the international scientist, but also in judges who unisono believe that here, in the youth jurisdiction and thus the most precious property a state has, namely, in the youth and in the future of this society, a crime is committed, a crime insofar as an internationally recognized organization will be broken down here, which is malicious and without any reason for hearing an appropriate argument today. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Oh, right?]] [[Calls for disapproval of the liberals and the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15331	Mr Puswald! We find other arguments and other words, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15346	I apologize and will easily find other arguments. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: These “crime” have committed your former justice ministers all over Austria!]] You seem to be wrong, colleague, because the former Justice Ministers did not destroy the Jugendgerichtshof. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But they let him go!]] Did we let him go? - That's not true either. You'd better know that as a judge. But I can also tell you that this House is not able to decide on a material basis, because the black and blue majority do not have the necessary information to be able to agree or vote in this House at all. That is why I would like to refer once again to the request for referral back to the Committee on Justice, whose adoption is good for all of you. With this, you could prove that you also have the necessary moral strength to admit your own mistakes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] However, this law – and if it were not so sad, it would have to be grateful – is a proof that this government must finally rise from its high Ross, make a propensity to the people, distance itself from its authoritarian basic attitude and its power intoxication, and put away its arrogance and arrogance. That, ladies and gentlemen, are not my arguments, but those of your friends from the party, Dinkhauser and Dirnberger! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To you, Minister of State, I would have a very special request. In fact, when I came to this House, I had the expectation that you and perhaps Mrs. Dr. Fekter, too, would do well to get rid of the practices of the Minister of the Interior. – Your last statement has proved to me that you are not only willing to do so, but apparently have fallen into this authoritarian style, which saddens many Austrians. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer.]] That is why I say to you: If this policy continues here, Husch-Pfusch laws will be passed if scandalous conditions – Mr Minister, I am willing to discuss them in detail with you, but my speaking time is limited – are not restricted by you, even though you have been in office for three years, if you are still, in part, adjudicating these states – I do not want to go into detail too much detail – if you take personal sensibilities, which are manifestly yours in relation to President Jesionek, for the sake of legislation, then I must tell you clearly and clearly that you are unbearable to me as Minister of Justice, as a minister of justice, as a leader, if I may say so, the most important pillar of democracy, namely justice! [[new interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer]] I therefore ask you to withdraw! You're welcome to follow this call. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15445	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15463	Mr President. Federal Minister! So these outbreaks of my predecessor! Is this mistrust now a party-distrust request or has it only been the outflow of an emotion, a withdrawal request or whatever? – I guess it went through the emotion a little bit with you. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: No mistrust, a withdrawal request!]] But you'll learn that too. We don't take this too seriously, what You say here, especially from your point of view. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Reheis: Unfortunately, you never take anyone seriously!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But the issue is serious enough, and we should let the facts speak. A completely incomprehensible emotion has already emerged in the Committee as well as here in relation to this subject area. It has been said that the Minister of Justice would have done something against better knowledge. A network has been smashed. The most absurd measure has been to say that a colleague has gone up and down, a measure that does not do anything at all, and is objectionable to her and so on. What is reality? – Reality, ladies and gentlemen, is the transfer of the Jugendgerichtshof from Erdberg to Josefstadt, better detention conditions, better care and a saving. – These are the key points, and they clearly speak for this measure. Ladies and gentlemen! In Erdberg – everyone knows that too, but you don't go into it – the accommodation was an unsatisfying one. We have already heard – the Minister of Justice described it to us – how full the cells were and that the terms of detention clearly contradicted the Anti-Folter Convention. The detention rooms have 70 detentions – and now in the Josefstadt it is, please, 150 detentions that are available! [[Abg. May. Worm: Less lock-in would be better!]] The issue of Diversion should also be addressed again. Now the possibility finally arises, so we hope that the division – a very modern instrument – or even the out-of-court settlement will be forced. Another issue that should not be overlooked, which is also a reality and has to do with the budget and simply also with the finances in our state, is saving. The rent in Erdberg amounted to approximately €250 000 a year; there are no costs in Josefstadt. The transport of young people to the hearings to bring only a small example, and to the negotiations required up to 17 judicial officials every day! Ladies and gentlemen! It's all gone now. They now call me a reason – apart from a possible party policy – that would justify the claim that this transfer would not have been useful! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, however, I come to a point that has been discussed in the media in recent weeks: the conditions of detention in the new Josefstadt Youth Criminal Centre. It was the talk of a “correction cell” – a term that does not exist at all in this form – of a toilet that would only be a hole in the room, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! Now we have to start from the following: A isolation takes place only for special reasons. In the media, this was presented as if it was something quite common for young people to come into these “correction cells”. - No! Do you know when they get there, Mrs. Colleague? They come in – as in the present case – when they have threatened and tormented fellow prisoners. There it is, please, the task of separating these young people! It is also not true what was to be read about the prison conditions and the detention rooms. These are large cells, very well with windows, table, armchairs, bed, toilet and washbasin. – So what was described here simply does not correspond to the facts. A 17-year-old black African was separated in the second case of the isolation, which was also carried out by the media. Why? – He attacked two officials and injured them. It is certainly necessary for such young people to be isolated, because they are a danger to their fellow prisoners and also to the judicial guards! That is the reality – but in the media it has unfortunately been quite different to read God. The young people are very likely to have several sports at this Josefstadt youth prison. It is simply not true what was reported by the opposition in this regard. There is the possibility to play football, handball, volleyball, badminton, even table tennis. There are 15 PC training places in this detention centre, and it is also offered to attend the primary school. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! All these are reasons that speak for this new institution!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15550	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15569	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let us leave the church in the village, Mrs Partik-Pablé has meant. [[Abg. Bucher: We already heard that!]] – Yes, let us leave the church in the village! Some here in the high house know not only the justice institutions Erdberg or Vienna-Josefstadt, but also, my dear colleague Miedl, there are some here in the house who know the Graz ports – as you have so beautifully formulated them – and even all the judicial institutions of Austria! If you are concerned about what the SPÖ is really doing, I can tell you: the legitimate concerns and concerns of the Austrians! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, I would like to take up a statement by Mr Mainoni in the debate on the previous item on the agenda. That's what he meant – and that's true – that we in our Republic are currently having a very high level of detention in prisons. We have 8,000 prisons, Mr Minister, and we have 7 944 inmates. There is a large east-west gap. The problem is in fact – you can break it up beautifully, but it will not be better – that, for example, we have had 1 267 inmates in a particularly loaded office like that in the Josefstadt, where, as we both know, there are 950 detainees, with yesterday's day 1 267 and that we had such a number the last time 30 years ago, Mrs Colleague, or 25 years ago. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 15 years ago you have 1 300 prisoners...!]] But we know how difficult this situation is as far as the overall situation is concerned. And that makes the situation so difficult! The best proof that it is difficult, Mrs. Colleague, is the fact that the Federal Minister had to set up an external office for the judicial institution Josefstadt in Simmering, for U-Häftling. You know why? – Because we had 1 000 U prisoners in the Josefstadt with yesterday’s day – and that, I believe, even for the first time in history! – No, but I am not putting a sensitive area of punishment into a very tense or most tense area of justice from all over Austria! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Minister can't do anything for that!]] I'm not going to make the problem any smaller! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But this is not a penalty, the U-Haft!]] Mr Federal Minister, I would also like to make a very clear appeal to you here and ask you: Please also stay in the government and do not allow justice to be broken! I am not just saying this with regard to the execution of the sentence, but with regard to the whole of the judicial system. People really stand at the front in the truest sense of the word. All the international experts have made clear statements in this regard, and I just don't want anything, that any staff or staff member of the Josefstadt may be accused of not doing a proper service there. In the interests of the Republic, in the interests of humanity, ladies and gentlemen, in the interests of overhumanity, the Josefstadt was and is not suitable in the present situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15657	Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15678	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your words. I'm telling you quite honestly: Much of what you said is right. [[Call the SPÖ: Everything! Everything!]] The increasing numbers of prisoners are disturbing. They are the result of an increased wave of crime and judicial decisions, particularly in the field of U-port. Why the U-port? – Because They are moving here in the youth sector and young people, especially the 14 to 18-year-olds – and this has nothing to do with the legislation of recent years – always in groups, legally said: Bands, occur, therefore must be taken into custody and because they must be heard separately. - That's the reason. The second reason is that we have a crime wave from abroad – apologise many times, I have to say it here. And for those who do not reside in Austria, the danger of escape is more likely than for others. That means, here too, there is an increased impedance of U-ports. This is our problem, and I am just as concerned as you are, Mr Deputies. I have today informed the Austrian Federal Government of this in a Council of Ministers speech, and we will solve this problem. We are already in the process of solving this problem by building and similar measures. We have responded just as quickly as we have responded to the unbearable situation in the Erd- Berg judicial centre. And that's the result today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15715	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15736	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Chairman of the Justice Committee, Dr. Fekter, we're actually still guilty of an answer. It is a rumor, Mrs. Fekter, that you were particularly interested in the destruction of the Jugendgerichtshof. So far, you are silent about this – but this seems to be becoming more and more common in the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! Skill You remember – I can still remember – as you once explained to us that we will not find a single youth judge outside of Vienna who would be against the resolution of the Vienna Jugendgerichtshof? – I can tell you the following: We have now had a fractional survey of the SPÖ for the resolution of the Jugendgerichtshof. A youth judge from Innsbruck, Dr. Günther Böhler, a judge with an excellent reputation, was also invited to this. He spoke anything but against the Jugendgerichtshof in Vienna. Ms. Dr. Astrid Henhofer, Vice-President of the Jugendgerichts department of the OLG Linz department, also spoke for the maintenance of the Jugendgerichtshof. The judge Dr. Böhler from Tyrol, that is, from the west of the federal territory, said in summary the following – I quote –: In summary, only to the Jugendgerichtshof once again: The resolution of this functioning facility is also not understandable to us from the western point of view, especially since this network works more than well, namely correctly. - Quote. What Dr. Böhler would have wished for and would like to continue – and again and again, with petitions to the Ministry of Justice – is that, for example, youth aid will be established in Innsbruck, i.e. in the federal states. All efforts in this direction, he says, have failed so far in Tyrol. – Here, Minister of State, there is a need for action. Something should happen here! I can quote another expert who participated in this survey, Professor Viemann from the Federal Republic of Germany. He said: The resolution of the Jugendgerichtshof Vienna seems to me to be a similarly deplorable act of criminal policy, an act of bureaucracy, based on fiscal-organisation, against an almost 80-year-old legal culture. For me, the resolution of the Vienna Jugendgerichtshof is a step backwards from criminal policy. - Quote. That's what another expert says. At the end of my argument, I would like to address something that you also met in your second speech, namely that one of the main reasons why the Jugendgerichtshof of Erdberg has been transferred to Josefstadt was that it should improve quality. However, there is now a scientific study, written by Professor Christian Grafl of the Institute of Criminal Law and Criminology of the University of Vienna and his assistant Dr. Judith Stummer. The authors of this study have conducted a survey among the young prisoners, and I can tell you, contrary to what has been held here again and again – by Mr Miedl, by Mr Mainoni and also by you, Mr Minister – that the young people – and it has all been questioned, so it is a more representative survey – on average were more satisfied with the prison conditions in the former Jugendgerichtshof in Erdberg than with the present situation. Something to think about, Minister of Justice, is the problem that young people do not find work, that they do not have jobs and that they are forced to go into inactivity – and that is a big problem, especially for young people! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Minister! A very short comment, because you and also Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pable have once again mentioned the fact that there are gymnasiums and so on: There is a law which requires young people to be given a twofold outcome, for example, only: It cannot be granted because the staff is missing! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's not true at all!]] That is why what happens in part is simply and simply illegal. However, I am not blaming my colleagues in the judicial guards, but there is a lack of personnel. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, one more appeal to reason: Withdraw this bill! Follow Professor Friedrich, who is really an important voice in youth psychology, in which youth psychology is! Take this draft back! Give the youth a chance!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15788	There are no further statements of words to this effect, so I conclude the debate. A final word on the part of the rapporteur is not wanted. We therefore come to the votes, with the first to vote on the referral request submitted by colleagues Dr. Jarolim and Mag. Stoisits on the draft law concerning a federal law amending the Jugendgerichtsgesetz and the Jurisdictionsorganisationsgesetz. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of renouncing this proposal, once again to the Justice Committee, to present a sign on this matter. – This is the minority. The referral request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law itself in 48 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – The proposal was adopted at second reading by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – I notice: The proposal was adopted by a majority vote in third reading. 7. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (39 of the Supplements): Federal Act establishing a Federal Act on the Enforcement Fees (VgebG) and amending the Rules of Procedure (EO-Nov. 2003) (50 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15849	We're on the 7th. Debates of the European Parliament There is no need for reporting, so I shall immediately grant Mr Magistrate's power. Donnerbauer as the first speaker to speak. The clock is set to 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15871	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We advise and decide today on a template to implement various changes to the right of execution which are pending. On the one hand, the aim is to create an incentive system for the executioners of the courts in order to ensure the effective enforcement of the claims which have been established, on the other hand to make some corresponding changes to the Rules of Procedure, and on the other hand to increase the scope of the intervening orders for protection against violence in the family of family members and also to make some changes in the implementation. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a very spectacular new legislative act, but it still allows me to lose a few words on the meaning and purpose of the rules of execution, even with regard to the debate in the judicial committee. The main objective of the Rules of Procedure and the related rules on fees is to help effectively and as quickly as possible the claims established by the public courts, often through a longer path, by means of several instances of legally established claims. It is not a question of legislation that serves the protection of the debtor – it has obviously been misinterpreted by the representatives of the Greens in the debate in the judicial committee. Debt protection provisions make sense and have their rights; they are also implemented in various materials. However, when it comes to the implementation of the claims which have been properly established, it is a question of helping the creditor to break his rights. He has also acquired the claim that his claims will be implemented and enforced. I mean, we should consider, above all, the following: The creditors are usually non-wild capitalists who attempt to exploit debtors, but creditors are very often, if I may only cite a few examples of women and children who have to enforce their maintenance claims, victims of accidents or criminal acts, to which claims of compensation often have to make them subject to a very laborious and long-term path, or even companies, commercial companies which have carried out their services in advance and which also often have to claim their return from the debtor under heavy cost. This must be kept in mind when it comes to keeping this instrument of execution as efficiently as possible and in the interest of the debtors, who ultimately also have to pay these costs, as low as possible. This goal is in the first place in this new law. It has already been implemented in the past, in 1995, and it is now about creating further incentives, but also about making the charging system as simple and cost-effective as possible. I therefore think that it should be possible for all political groups in this House to vote today on this bill, because it is really not an ideological issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15922	The next speaker is Mrs Stadlbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e15940	Mr President. High house! I take a position on § 382, protection against violence in the family. Austria has a pioneering role in Europe, yes, all over the world, in the field of anti-violence law and right of way. For this law we are envied, yes, many are trying to install similar things. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to the women's ministers of SPÖ Johanna Dohnal, Helga Konrad and Barbara Prammer, who are preparing this law and with have implemented their social democratic ministerial colleagues in the government, also in the name of the women concerned, who could be helped. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, we are deciding to amend the Rules of Procedure on this issue – I am generally positive, because if experience is available and if changes in laws are necessary, it is our duty to respond as soon as possible. Unfortunately, the experiences of associations working under this law are only minimal and, as they themselves say, disappointing. A small improvement is the change that now includes all who have lived or live in a family association. This is positive, and I would also like to expressly mention it; my previous speaker has already mentioned it. But: To assess very negatively is the fact that there is no change in the duration of the interlocutory order. Victims of family violence need sufficient time to reorganise their lives, perhaps to look for a job, in all cases to find a new home, to organize childcare, time to get into the clean with themselves, for example, to prepare for divorce, and for that often three months are not enough. However, only married women have an opportunity to renew, as they have the opportunity to seek follow-up proceedings – the follow-up procedure in this case means divorce proceedings. I would, however, like to show you who can make it negative. First: Lifemates who are not in the rental contract – but that is no wonder, because it is not really in the world view of this government that there are new forms of relationship away from marriage; therefore, this group does not really care about you. Second group: older women who are financially dependent on their husbands because they themselves are not employed. They cannot submit the divorce, at least not so fast, because they lack something vital, their own income. – But that’s no wonder, because if we pursue how this government does all it can to make it self-employed, say the possibility of self-employment for women at first, if no labour market policy becomes visible to women, and then we add the brutal hardness of the pension law presented, then we see that this group also doesn’t care about you. Third group: Migrants and their children, if they do not have their own residence permit. – But this is no wonder, too, because if we look at Mr Strasser’s heartless and humane non-integration policy, we see that you also do not care about this group. However, it can also happen to women who carry out a follow-up procedure within these three months – a divorce procedure – because when this divorce is pronounced, the interlocutory order also ends, and thus these women are no longer protected. The time before and after divorce is the most dangerous for affected women, and it is counterproductive when protection ends exactly there. That you do not really have much left for the groups just listed by me and therefore do not take this into account is understandable on the basis of your world view, but you have forgotten another group – and this disqualifies this government and, above all, the Austrian People's Party as even so often praised “family party”. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you have forgotten the children: Children cannot seek follow-up. The interlocutory order ends after three months – and then withdraw the protection from these children and abandon them! You see, therefore, that it is very important not to impose the interim order on a certain period of time, which must be extended urgently and in all cases. All people must be protected! Please allow me at this point a question to the Minister for Women's Smoking Call. This law and the consequences of the lack of change would really be a classic example of raising the vote for the women concerned as women's minister! But when did Mrs. Rauch-Kallat do? – I didn't hear from her anyway! But this is no wonder again, because violence and protection from violence is not a subject that is fun or pleasure – and the woman minister does not want to have anything to do with frustration, although she said the opposite in her speech of entry. At that time her motto was “frusion instead of lust”. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Do it well again; I will give you the opportunity to do so by submitting the following request to which you can agree: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16066	The amendment just tabled is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16087	Mr President. Federal Minister! This amendment to the Rules of Procedure will lead to a reduction in the administrative burden – I would like to talk at least now about the benefits of the whole and not just about a half-rate – as well as an increase in the success of contributions and an increase in the quality of work. The Committee expressed concerns about these novels, whether there would be a “suffering” on the part of the debtors; further concerns were raised as to the “social compatibility” of this law. Mrs Stoisits, for example, criticized easy access to credit in this context. – Mrs Stoisits may be right to say that access to bank loans is often made too easy and can lead to a fall in debt. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Dr. Dieter Böhmdorferherzlich, Federal Minister of Justice, for having accepted an association that has already cost us many billion schillings. Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer is The network of the so-called Lombard club with its interest-rate agreements was successful. I believe that this is a great success for all of us who have to do with banking. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The essence of this law is the execution, so we do not need to discuss whether a “suffering” could arise at the expense of debtors or, at least, the “social tolerance” could be affected. This law is a system of execution, and it is a revision which helps to simplify efficiency and improve quality. That is why we are happy to give this novelle our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16138	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16157	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that the extension of the protection of violence is a very, very essential measure, so that we are moving forward our approval of this positive step to the various critical considerations. In any case, we will then, as a whole, support your proposal – contrary to the debate in the Committee. As I said, In the field of violence, we are quite on your side, we are very satisfied with this regulation. However, where we are concerned and have not scattered them, where we are now dealing with the concerns, is the question of the order of execution. They all know that the execution order assumes – this is a relatively critical check-out point for us – that there are innumerable debtors. – In my opinion, the number of involuntary debtors is relatively minimal compared to the number of unfit debtors. And I believe that this, as it were, purely semantic difference is already an element in which I feel obliged to look at the overall environment around this order of execution. You're right: The system of execution has become more efficient. No question, and this is also a positive development, but it is also a task to consider the environment for concrete legal measures – measures that are in the final effect “End of the Pipe” – as well. And there you can see that we have a development that is becoming increasingly evident, especially through debt advice, an increase in debt. You only need to read this in the daily media: All in all, in Austria we have an over-indebtedness problem, which is particularly evident in young people, who are also more aware of various workers who receive loans, especially in loans where they simply take over. Our starting point is to become legally active in this area of the environment, in the second line of course to become more effective in execution, and very probably also to note that the regulation you are proposing now, that we have success-oriented executives, that executives are getting virtually success premiums or, in order to say it, head prizes, in our view, is not the right way to achieve the planned efficiency. In this context, we recommend that the working group in the Ministry should continue to deal with this issue and that a better situation be brought about overall – as well as the working group in the Ministry, which is pursuing further initiatives in the field of violence protection, will hopefully also come up with further positive measures. Two more critical comments on the Rules of Procedure, which we have also documented by a different opinion. The one aspect for us is that we in Austria Europe-wide on the issue of wage and wage contributions is leading, so to speak, – there are rigorous rules that allow for very large access – but this makes it very easy in Austria to carry out pledges to an extent that is just as dangerous to existence. Examples: in terms of renting, for example, that the debtors can no longer afford the rents, as well as in terms of operating costs payments, but also in terms of aliments. All these aspects, which in total can also lead to a loss of the job, are also committed to perhaps taking back the public hand for what the debtor can no longer do, because overall the execution is very, very efficient. You should do this again, especially with a view to further development – keyword: the whole environment – once again consider the whole thing. As I said, Today, a plus, today's approval for the protection of violence, but critical remarks about the order of execution. We hope that everything – in your sense of increasing efficiency and in our sense minimizing the debt dimension or over-indebtedness – can be further developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16230	Mr Böhmdorfer is speaking on behalf of the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16251	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Stadlbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak briefly about Mrs Stadlbauer's speech. For the Enlightenment: An interim order is a provisional measure which is not equivalent to a court judgment. This can only be done for a limited period of time; in Austria that is three months. If you add a main procedure, you can extend it, only: In this case, which we are discussing here, the main procedure is the divorce, and non-married people – that is the logic – cannot be divorced! So if non-married persons establish a different legal relationship, you can also follow a main procedure. If they don't justify anything, then you can't join the main procedure. Your request, your request, therefore, goes empty. - That's one. In addition, Mrs Moser said: We're not on the wrong path. The executioner, the executioner must work efficiently. It's pointless when he comes to a professional at 10:00 in the morning – and he does that three times. We're doing it this way: After consulting with an efficient consulting company, we have developed an IT system, which will control the use of the complete-track computer-oriented, i.e. with the method of information technology. A full-tracker then goes effectively, and this is cheaper for the creditor and cheaper for the debtor. I therefore believe that I have rejected your criticisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16297	The next speaker is Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16315	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Although Mr Moser in the committee was still talking about the fact that in this novel, there would be a “suffering” to the disfavor of the debtors, I am glad that she will still agree to this novel today. I believe that this is a necessary and sensible measure which we are making with this amendment, namely that we should: bringing debt simply to speed up and trying to make less bureaucratic and with fewer obstacles. I believe that all of us must be concerned about this and that it cannot be the cost of the general public, but also the cost of the debtor to the debtor. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As mayor, one is constantly confronted with the problem of executions of auctions, sometimes also of people who would not expect them at all. I must also admit that there are very often cases where individuals, but also families are in an emergency situation and it is difficult to find a proper procedure. However, I believe that a non-bureaucratic novelle is more helpful than just making this order more bureaucratic. As a responsible person in the communities, we are very much required to intervene in aid. And I think I can see here that this assistance is in many cases very unbureaucratic by the local authorities. But this is quite a question of a group of people who, as I believe, are willing to pay, as Mrs Moser has already said, and who are not unwilling to pay. However, I also believe that, contrary to your opinion, Mr Moser, there is a much larger group of people who are primarily and from home not willing to pay. Especially in such cases, we must ensure that the process is unbureaucratic and efficient. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address a further problem. It is often the case that communities, especially in recent years, are becoming creditors of their citizens. If there are problems, where to save the most at first? – The cost of water supply or water disposal is most likely to be the most appropriate; one may also save on kindergarten money or on the basic tax. You can certainly imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a very easy conflict of conscience as mayor, for how do you want to answer for example to block water supply? How do you want to be responsible for not letting a child go to kindergarten? I therefore believe that it is necessary for us to bring this group of people, who, on the other hand, often, as you can see, are very well equipped with luxury goods, and to try to drive these debts, especially for the general public. It is not to be blamed for the fact that the community of citizens is ultimately paying the debt of some less! That is why I am convinced that this execution regulation novelle is a good means of driving debt more efficiently and unbureaucratically, and I also believe that it is important – and ultimately it can only be good for the debtors themselves, as it is forcing them to learn to do better. In this sense, we will agree to this bill by the ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16372	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. The rapporteur does not wish for a final word. We shall come to the vote, and we shall vote first of all on the draft law in 39 of the supplements, with an additional request from Mrs Stadlbauer. I shall first vote on this supplementary proposal and then on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Mrs Stadlbauer has tabled an additional request for Article II, which has been read. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this supplementary request for an appropriate sign. – I notice: The request does not find the majority of the House. We therefore come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the presentation in this form to give an appropriate sign. The proposal was adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading to give a sign on this point. . I note that the proposal was also adopted unanimously at third reading. 8. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (40 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Copyright Act (Copyright Law 2003 – UrhG-Nov 2003) (51 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16437	Now we're on the 8th. Agenda item. Mr Drinkl does not give up oral reporting, so we are going into the debate at once. The first speaker is Dr. Jarolim. The clock should be set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16461	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, this copyright law-novelle has completely failed God. There would have been a variety of ways to implement an innovative and forward-looking legislation that also addresses the interests of the artists. However, what is happening here is essentially an attempt – the far too late attempt; for reasons I cannot understand – to implement an EU directive. It is said – not wrong from my point of view – that this is a sort of act of humiliation towards the artists, because one simply did not understand and simply did not want to understand, or did not want to understand, that there is a wealth of different interests that have been in discussion for decades – and which would actually be so far to be solved, but are now being pushed to the long bank. Mr Fekter announced sometime during this discussion that there should be an inquiry about this in the autumn; however, I hear from other parties that this is not quite certain either. So I would like to see the artists dealt with a little more sensitively than Mrs. Gehrer does with students and students or also Mr. Straster in the field of internal security. What's this novelle about? – In essence, to implement an EU directive, which will ultimately be implemented in such a way that it falls to a large number of Austrian consumers in a very unpleasant way in that we will have to expect a copy protection to be used in such an excessive way – example: digital carriers, CDs – that one can no longer play in the car radio, for example, a diskette that one buys and plays at home, although one has, of course, paid a benefit fee, because the government did not consider it necessary to have accompanying care to ensure that it does not happen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is a plea for robberies!]] I do not know, Mrs Fekter, whether the consumers of this country are at your heart at all, because I think it is necessary – we all know the technical possibilities for development – to know how to protect something, how to modify something so that it can no longer be played on other devices – to create framework conditions with which to ensure that not someone who buys such a thing can no longer use it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thank you, thank you very much, Mr Schieder. We from the SPÖ have put forward proposals, proposals which, unfortunately, have not been taken into account by God. Reimbursement claims, flat-rate low-case remuneration: All of this was raised, but as an improvement was made, the government parties did not accept it either. What the many copyrights are about, there has been a discussion about this for a long time. Currently, the distribution of the amounts is such that one third is for the film owners – that is, the artists – and two thirds for the producers. – This is unique in Europe, it is not acceptable and therefore would have to be changed as quickly as possible. A so-called best-seller paragraph was also required; For example: There is a translation of “Asterix” from one language to another – and that at a time when it was not foreseeable that it was a work that would become a knuller in the future. – In Germany, it is possible to receive additional charges by means of this, so to speak, explosion-like spread; in Austria, for example, this would not be possible at present. I mean, there's a need for renovation that needs to be dealt with urgently. We have tabled an amendment here, a amendment tabled by Mr Jarolim, Mr Mag. Maier and comrades, who will be present to you, whom I would like to explain for a moment now. We do not want consumers to be sanctioned in future for circumvention actions which they take to bring about the exercise of their free use rights, but that must be in a material context, in a certain appropriate way. The second is that we also want a reasonable regulation to clarify the relationship between “free use of work – technical protection” – that is the aspect I mentioned earlier. I can therefore invite you to give your consent to our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16513	The amendment, which Mr Dr. Jarolim has briefly explained, is in accordance with § 53 para. 4 the Rules of Procedure shall be duly signed and brought in, and shall be explained in its basic directions; it shall be duplicated, and shall be negotiated. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16583	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16601	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jarolim. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make one comment on the amendment tabled by Mr Jarolim. I am incomprehensible that the SPÖ is changing its attitude to copyright by 180 degrees, because this amendment is a plea for the approval of predators. In the introductory phrase, Mr Jarolim, one cannot pretend to want to protect the artists, nor can one say that it is intellectual property, that it is also priced - but then it is an abduction. Amendment under the cover item “Consumer Protection”, which has nothing but the objective of allowing for predatory copies and the circumvention of technical obstacles. – That is why we will not, of course, agree to this amendment. I assume that the Socialists will also make another motion for a resolution, a request that they try to undermine copyright where music notes are concerned. – I also find it incomprehensible, because so far, the Social Democrats have argued that they are worthy of copyright and the rights of those who make money from it. – But everything is obviously different now; in the opposition, the Social Democrats obviously do not think any more of copyright! So I expect from the SPÖ – at least so announced – a motion for a resolution in the direction that music notes can be copied, without having to pay for recovery rights. If you know that music publishing is the small publishers and music notes are not necessarily sold in huge quantities, you also know that such a request towards exploitation is just about an attack on those who try to protect their intellectual property. The implementation of an EU directive is the content of this Novelle Copyright Act. The aim of the directive is to implement the new types of technical exploitation: Digitalisation and the Internet. International conventions such as the Convention of the World Intellectual Property Organization are also included. This agreement prohibits, for example, the exploitation of music notes – and only from this international agreement can we not comply with the desire to reproduce music notes free of charge. I would like to put forward an amendment which is intended to clarify with regard to the reproduction of works that this should only be done in terms of analogy. This is clearly regulated in the EU directive, and we also have this in the draft law, but I believe that it is necessary to clarify this text better. It is also necessary that we – politically correct! – not to write “advanced” into the laws, but to speak of“ disabled persons, ” including respect. Therefore, my request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The purpose of this amendment is simply to adapt and clarify the legislative texts to the directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16699	The request, which Mrs Fekter has just read, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dr. Niederwieser spoke on an actual correction. You know the facts, the Rules of Procedure and the 2-minute restriction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16723	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Fekter has claimed that the SPÖ would change its position on copyright by 180 degrees, and she has justified this with an pending SPÖ request, which would result in copying parts of music, not whole scores. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You changed it by 180 degrees!]] The fact is that, as Mrs Fekter, a little bit of honesty would be asked, that this passus, which is now about, is coming into the law again, which means that you are changing your position. We Social Democrats remain with our position and with the opportunities that are now available.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16770	Mrs Glawischnig. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16788	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. What is this copyright law-novelle about? – First of all, it means the transposition of the EU Information Directive into national law. The major issue that always arises on this issue is the question of rights, the distribution between the so-called authors – the creative – as well as industry and consumers. There has been a very good legal tradition in Europe, one has always tried to achieve a balanced relationship. In Austria, the creative rights may have been a little disadvantaged, but the Compensation was the primary principle of European legal tradition. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] This novel, which is extremely controversial in all European countries, introduces the American understanding of this question, namely the strengthening of the large publishers, the large producers within this sensitive triangular relationship. This is not about the small music publishers, but about the big labels that are now in the hands of four or five majors. And it is also about the software industry, where, as we know, there is an enormous concentration process. This new novel paves the way for further concentration processes and does not strengthen the rights of the authors or consumers. A little thought experiment, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner: Imagine buying a few records, if you want to play at home, but you need a certain record player, because the records are encrypted by a patented procedure and can only be played on an Ariola record player, not on a Sony record player, for example. [[Abg. Scheibner: Are they still to buy?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The stupid thing is that you don't get any more record players at all!]] The same applies to CDs. So, basically, the right to private copy in this law is still maintained verbally, but it is so massively restricted that this narrow private area is no longer possible. What I don't understand is that you – and this clearly goes beyond the goal – are now even operating with criminal provisions, that is, if copy protection is also avoided only in order to preserve personal rights to a private copy. I think that this is really over-covered, because it goes down to registration in the criminal register. Another point is very unfortunate: There would have been a chance to anchor in this legislative novel especially better creations for the creatives, for the artists, in Austria. This is what we are following. Rules that have been working well in Germany since 1966 do not exist in Austrian law. We all know the social situation of artists. Some improvements were included in the original design. It is therefore very, very unfortunate that it is now being whipped so quickly by Parliament and that these improvements have been completely deleted for the creative, for the artists. I regret that, it also contradicts your government agreement, in which you have committed a survey on this delicate question of how to fairly distribute the rights between the creative, the industry and the consumers. It has simply been implemented at the minimum level. It is a far-reaching opportunity, which is very sorry for me personally and for all those who are concerned about the rights of artists. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But you don't want the copy protection...!]] Mrs Fekter! I think I have now explained it in detail. For a long time, the right to private copy is not – and it is even the opposite – to open the professional robbery against copyrights door and door. On the contrary! This right to private copy should be strengthened, but not eroded, as is now stated. It's not available anymore. On the other hand, you do nothing for the creative, for the artists! So I cannot see a balance in this draft. The Greens will not agree to this proposal either. I would like to make another amendment to two detailing points. It has already been distributed, I will briefly describe its cornerstones. The law has a wealth of very complex detailed arrangements. One of these regulations, which is very disturbing to us, is that in the case of school-book reproductions – which is free – the authors are not informed, so there is no transparency about what is actually duplicated in this school-book reproduction. Secondly, there is no equality between work performers and film performers. This imbalance is also inconceivable. I hope you think about it again. I regret that there was no such survey. The issues of digitization, including the development of the global market in software and music industries, are very exciting topics. Just to import the American legal tradition without criticism, I think I'm totally missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16863	I announce that the request of the honourable Member has just been presented in his key points. Stoisits, Dr. Mr Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen, have been presented in writing and have also been given sufficient support. It is therefore under negotiation. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. 4 to reproduce and distribute the Rules of Procedure; it shall also be printed in the Stenographic Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16933	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e16951	Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out several times by my previous speakers that the proposal we are discussing today is the implementation of an EU directive. We have to implement this EU directive. Therefore, various suggestions and wishes made to all clubs in the review process have not been taken into account. We can also, I do not think, say that it is an unfortunate reform, because we have agreed in the deliberations – you, Mrs Glavischnig, were not present, but one of your club staff was in there – to hold an inquiry on the various aspects of the I hope that we can talk about interests, so that we can, at least, come to a good settlement. I would like to stress that I fully understand the concerns and fears of the art-creating people in Austria, and I also understand the concerns expressed regarding private copies. The fears of the artists that the entertainment industry or the software industry would be concerned about the interests of the individual artistic creators or risk them, and therefore protection provisions are necessary, are completely understandable. However, I believe that we should discuss all of this in a comprehensive way, especially because the individual interests are so divergent and we should partly adapt to each other. The SPÖ scepticism expressed in the minority report that the results of the survey would not be used because the Federal Government will not respond to it, but I cannot share it. I do not think that such accusations expressed in advance are justified at all. You should have more confidence. In addition, it is also your argument whether these points are implemented or not. Let us listen to what the individual stakeholders or groups have to offer, and then try to find a solution that will satisfy the artistic creators and also safeguard the interests of the industry. I would also like to reject the accusation – I believe the Green – that this draft, this government template, is being whipped through in order to favour the software or entertainment industry. The joint motion for a resolution commissioned the Minister of Justice to monitor and report on the Austrian market and the development of protection rights by July 2003. We have worked out this motion for a resolution together. I think it is pointless if we now make mutual accusations about the implementation of the directive. Rather, we should try to achieve a constructive solution in the autumn after the survey despite the various interests.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17005	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mayer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17024	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We see today at this presentation, as well as in the discussion on the change in pension rights, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, one: That's another misappropriation! They thereby make a mistake with regard to both artists and consumers. It basically favours industry only. We know that the so-called EU Info Directive has been enforced on the pressure of industry in Europe. Artists have spoken against it, but also all European consumer organisations. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to quote you. They made the following statement in May 2000 on the subject of the discussion on this Info Directive: Of course, Austria would allow copies for private purposes and would not be punished – condition: a private person would have to be able to avoid the barrier to copy. What is available here today is exactly the opposite. What is available here today prevents the private copy and legalizes the technical protection measures. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It's not true at all!]] For this reason, Mr Fekter, let us reject this, take note of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is a plea for the robberies! Tell the artists that you want to allow predators!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! That's absurd! Providers are granted the right to prevent digital copies through effective technical measures. At the same time, criminal sanctions prevent those technical measures from being circumvented. An example: They buy a CD with beautiful music, colleague Fekter, sit in the car on the drive home to Upper Austria and insert the CD. But what happens? – The device is not compatible. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That's the problem. Here, on the one hand, consumer fraud is committed and on the other hand, a new concept of ownership is created because the rights of use of buyers are restricted. We know this from the international industry. By means of regional codes, certain devices or certain CDs operate only in certain regions. And now the copy protection is coming in. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This presentation also contradicts the interests of the Austrian economy! Mr Fekter! They have received the opinion of the Austrian companies like me. The Austrian companies have clearly opposed it for various reasons. That is why we are currently on the side of the Austrian industry and not you, the government parties. But this is a lot more about the future of the music universities. Mr Fekter, you have not been able to stand in the room in the past. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You just want to damage the music publishing, the little music publishing!]] I am therefore bringing forward the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jarolim, Dr Niederwieser, Mr Mag. Mayer, who deals with this problem. According to this motion for a resolution, everything is to be done so that the teaching company at music universities is not seriously affected or made impossible in individual subjects, in order to avoid significant cost burdens for music students, music libraries are not burdened with disproportionate additional costs, and massive impairments of general Austrian music life are prevented. Mr Fekter! All of this is exactly on the line of the ÖVP against the universities. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You want to break international agreements and damage music publishing!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With this design, you also attack the existence of all cultural and costume associations that use traditional music. We Socialists are against it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17139	Mr Magistrate. Mrs Maier's motion for a resolution, drawn up by Mr Jarolim, Dr Niederwieser, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Miedl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17160	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As mentioned several times, we are implementing an EU directive with this proposal. [[Abg. Oils: But a bad one!]] That's where you look, Mr Oillinger! We are doing something to order the relationship triangle artist-consumer industry, just as you, Mrs Glawischnig, mentioned it. [[Abg. Oillingers: The artists are against it too! The little one more!]] We want to arrange this, including those provisions which Mr Maier has just mentioned. That's international law! Mr Maier, please say: Who do you want to protect? [[Abg. Oillinger: You want to protect Sony!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: And Microsoft!]] Mr Maier is acting and says that he really wants to make copies in the interests of consumers. [[Abg. Oils: Sony and Microsoft!]] Mr Jarolim said: I want to protect the rights and concerns of the artists. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] So one wants to copy, and the other wants to give the artists the tantimes. And all this should go under a hat. [[Abg. Oils: But no! You didn't understand!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, I did not know at all that you are so competent on this question. [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] Great! Next time, we both sit together in the Committee on Justice and discuss together, Mr President, because this problem is more complex and diverse than it may appear at first sight. We now decide on a right that has been laid down by an EU directive for the decision-making of the national states. As you know, Mr President, we can download, reproduce and sell music of any kind from the Internet and every movie of the latest kind. We could do that! In the meantime, there are even very well organized groups that do a lot of business with downloading and selling these things in large styles. Now I wonder: Can we really represent that? This does not help the industry or the artists or anyone else! Ladies and gentlemen! In reality, it is about trying to order a market that should have been organized for a long time. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Large companies such as Warner Brothers or the Universal Studios were even ready to open this home market on condition that at the same time copy protection possibilities were promised by the technology. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is in the interest of the artists, so that the artists who have contracts with these large companies and companies also come to their tantimes and to their money. [[Abg. Oillingers: The copy protection devices partially violate international standards! That's how it looks!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that we decide on this measure today, because I believe we are getting a step closer to the interests of the artists and the interests of consumers. [[Abg. Oillingers: They only make Sony and Microsoft the wall!]] Mr Oellinger, we two make this up in the coloirs afterwards, because you know very well that we cannot do anything today but decide on this measure imposed by the EU. [[Abg. Oillinger: Then it's too late!]] We of the ÖVP like to do this because it is necessary, in the interests of those who pretend to protect you. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone to agree to this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17352	The next speaker was Mrs Haidlmayr.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17370	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This copyright law is supposed to be an adaptation to EU directives, and that is it in large parts. Nevertheless, I have to say: Mr Minister, you did not think a lot of things about this! The information on this directive contains the following - I am telling you - and you will probably have read it, I hope at least: ‘Member States should, in any event, take all necessary measures to facilitate access to these works for persons with disabilities who make it difficult for them to use the works themselves, with particular attention being paid to accessible formats’. That is the EU's requirement, Mr Minister, and you have not fulfilled this requirement. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Of course! § 42!]] That's exactly where it should have been fulfilled! You would only need to write down § 45c from the German regulation, then it would have voted. Only you didn't, and that's your problem. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] That's your big problem, Mrs. Fekter. I am only glad that in the last few minutes you have come to realize that people are behind the term “disabilities” and that you are now ready to write to the term “impaired” at least “persons”. [[Abg. Older: Read! Think! Act! Copy it!]] It's a sad story anyway, if you don't know yet, but please! For you too, the European Year of People with Disabilities has taken four months now, but you have only now understood that “people” and “improvement” are actually a common term and “disabilities” can stand alone for everything. Once again, you can see how intense you are dealing with the subject, and it is also seen that we are not seen as people with disabilities, but just as disabled people, and that's what it's all about. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, that's not what it is!]] That's what it's done, because please look at what's in your government paper. It reads: ‘§ 42d disabled’. Get out! Yes, precisely because now, after four months, you have come to understand that people behind “the disabled ” are also people. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And that is why we have tabled an amendment!]] I said that, and you just confirmed it to me. That's right! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Mrs. Fekter, you have no chance!]] Minister! You told me earlier out on the hall, you know that all this is not happening and that the regulations for people with disabilities and disabilities are not being fulfilled. But you meant: That's not so tragic, in the autumn a new novel will come in anyway, and that's where it comes in. – Now I really wonder: Do you have so little to do today that we decide a novel with the aim of making it new in September, because you were unable to write off § 45c from the German template? If you had written this off, you would not have to make this point again. But you can also practice employment therapy if you want, and that is truly a form of employment therapy. Minister! They have even negotiated very long and very intensively with the group of visually impaired people. But areas that had already reclaimed the visionary movement have simply brought you back into the law, simply without talking to the people about it and without informing them. What did people go to you for? Did they really walk out of their feet for weeks and months to get introduced to you and make a difference with you? – Once they're outside the door, everything is back at the old place, and you do what you want. Mr Minister, that's not how it is! You can't believe that we people with disabilities are really so stupid that we can't read and don't know what's been done to you and what you're doing after. If you say, in September, this will be innovation anyway, I ask you: Why not, Minister? Why do you have to make the trouble, why do you have to block the blind and the severely disabled people by not doing them in the final effect anyway? – I would like an answer. We're really not here for you to get us constantly shaken up. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I have no great expectations for you, Mr Minister, that is the case. But I think: I can already expect you to have the German law just pointed out § 45c! And I expect this to happen quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17487	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17505	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me perhaps begin by starting with a remarkable ignorance of some Members regarding the handling of electronic media. [[Abg. Ollinger: We already know each other!]] First: Copy protection and the right to private copy. – I assume that most members of the opposition also hear music and that most of them copy a CD from time to time. [[Abg. Oillinger: Of course! But so...!]] I can see that every CD – even CDs with copy protection – can be copied completely easily, but only if you do it at a simple speed. Since we all, and most citizens in Austria, have such good copiers that they allow 8-fold and 32-fold copying speeds, they probably don't try that out. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I did this, I got some CDs with copy protection at home. [[Abg. Oillinger: I don't want to copy it, I want to play it!]] With my Melissa-Etheridge record from Sony, I admittedly annoyed twice when I wanted to copy a song for my private use in the car. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, see!]] Then I read: Easy speed. – And so was it. I think that's actually a reasonable thing. I can make a copy of my private use with the one-to-one speed. [[Abg. Oillinger: Why, do you think Sony is installing the copy protection?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] But I can't do this at 8 times or 32-time speed, which would allow me to make a lot of copies within a very short time and to sell them illegally, as it unfortunately happens. [[Abg. Oils: The law does not refer to speed!]] I can't! [[Abg. Ollinger: That's forbidden now!]] No, it is allowed, it is possible, at simple speed there is no copy protection, on no single CD. [[Abg. Oils: With one-time speed!]] Copy protection is only effective for copying at higher speed. You should know that when you make applications and talk about them. [[Abg. Oillinger: Then ask...!]] - That's one point. Point two: It is also my concern to address something that Mrs Glavischnig has said. This is not only about copying music CDs, but in particular about preventing software predators. That's where you talked about a pitiful market concentration. I have had less pleasure in reading the Green Section on the projects in this area in the course of this election campaign and subsequent government formation. To my great regret, the greens believe that free software, Linux, is the ideal standard for all applications across the vegetable garden. Your program also includes “Free Software”, “Free Software”, the term “Open Source”, everything can be mixed and misused. In principle, however, it is of great importance to know that Free Software, Open Source and Microsoft are three completely different things to deal with very carefully. Unfortunately, I do not have the time to present this in depth, but I assume that we will continue to deal with it in detail. I am particularly looking forward to this, which I think is even more important than today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17671	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17689	Mr President. Minister! High house! These processes relating to the copyright law novelle are sometimes very peculiar. ==References====External links== April is quite well described – I quote –: "If the public legislator takes up the acceleration process, there is an arrogance – a berth rule that also confirms itself in the case of the copyright novels:..." It is really true that the hurry on the show has a very real background. In the summer of 2002, not only should the EU Directive be implemented into Austrian law, but it also included some urgently necessary modernisations of Austrian copyright. They were important because they should serve the better protection of the works of artists and contribute to the fair remuneration of creative performance. In this draft, there were the already mentioned “Bestseller-Paragraphen”, the purpose transfer theory and the ineffectiveness of the granting of work-use permits and work-use rights for unknown types of use. These three provisions would have strengthened the rights of artists, and thus we would also have enshrined rights in the Austrian legal system, which are already a matter of course internationally. But nothing left of it in the now present novel. Obviously, the government has become afraid of its own courage. Austrian copyright remains deficient. It's amazing: They refuse the discussion. A survey is announced, but then adjourned. A fair balance of interests between creatives, consumers and the economy does not appear to be important. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! You can include your copyright law Novelle 2003 in the section “Waste Chances”. The opportunity to modernise Austrian copyright has been missed, but you have also given the opportunity to ensure that artists find suitable opportunities for their works.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17731	Please take a seat. – In the word, no one is reported for this anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 51 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Stoisits, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues, tabled an additional request. MEPs also have Dr. Jarolim, Mag. Mr Stoisits, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary or amendment. In addition, MEPs, Dr. Fekter, Dr. Partik-Pablé, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals, in accordance with the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Fekter, Dr. Partik-Pablé has an amendment concerning Art. I.Z.10. I would ask those Members who have spoken in favour of this to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Mr Fekter, Dr. Partik-Pablé, also had an amendment concerning Art. IZ 15. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is unanimous and therefore adopted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues have an additional request concerning the insertion of a Z 20a and a Z 39a in Art. I brought in. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Dr. Jarolim, Mag. Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. I Z 65. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are speaking for it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I now come to the vote on this part of the draft law as it stands on the Committee's report. In case of consent, I ask for a sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. Deputies Dr. Jarolim, Mag. Stoisits, colleagues and others have an additional request concerning Art. I Z 65. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also a majority, so the draft law is also adopted in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 51 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Wait! The Greens have to consider first!]] – This is largely accepted. (E 5.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Jarolim, colleagues on the negative effects of copyright novels, particularly for music universities and music students. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. 9. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (33 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz, which amends the bankruptcy order, the compensation system, the insolvency law, the banking law and the insurance supervision law (Federal Law on International Insolvency Law - IIRG) (49 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17787	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. As the first speaker for the debate, Mr Magistrate. Ikrath spoke with a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17811	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted and am also a little proud that I am standing in front of you today with my first speech. I can remember that when I was in the high house for the first time at the same late evening as a student, 27 years ago, I was standing out there and, I think, waiting one and a half hours for the then representative Heinrich Neisser and Heribert Steinböck. [[Abg. Gaál: Steinbauer!]] Yes, stone builder. The waiting time was not such that she would have deterred me from still finding it great, interesting and exciting, not only standing outside, but one day being here in this room. I'm glad that this has succeeded! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am also pleased that the first time I was given the opportunity to talk about a consensual matter. At any rate, it was a consensus matter in the judicial committee, and I assume that the arguments that it will remain this way have not changed. Not that I am in principle shy of conflicts – we will probably still find them – but a start on the basis of a broad majority, with a common goal, is of course something beautiful. What is the background to this law? – We all know that the economy today is very closely intertwined internationally; Globalisation, Europeanisation are the keywords. It is also a fact – although not so encouraging – in economic life that not all companies successfully cope with the competition. One of the consequences of this can be insolvency. The common concern in such a case has always been to ensure and develop the protection of creditors accordingly. Therefore, it is almost surprising and probably only by the speed of the international development of the economy that there is a regulatory area in which the creditor looks through his fingers very improperly, namely if a bankruptcy or insolvency debtor has his assets or parts of his assets in a country with which no own agreement has been concluded outside the EU. Now many of you may believe that there may be exotic countries somewhere in Latin America or in the Far East. – But no, you don’t have to go very far, but actually just look at the front door: This is already the case with Switzerland! If you today are creditors of a bankruptcy debtor who has his assets or substantial parts of it in Switzerland, then the effect of bankruptcy does not extend to this asset. That is, the debtor remains fully competent there. The fact that this cannot be satisfactory is logical because it does not ensure the protection of creditors. It is therefore worth noting that the Ministry of Justice has addressed this problem at the same time as the implementation of two EU directives on banks and insurance, which fill a similar regulatory deficit, and that the German Federal Law on International Insolvency Law, which is now in place for decision, ensures that, in the future, creditor protection will continue to be fully protected in a bankruptcy with international asset consequences. In other words, it also includes the foreign assets of an Austrian debtor in future. This is, of course, based on reciprocity: This also applies in the foreign bankruptcy proceedings in the event that the foreign debtor has assets in Austria. This takes into account the increasing internationalisation in the financial sector as a whole, which, in the interests of the protection of creditors, creates better access to the assets of insolvent companies abroad. In my opinion, this is something that everyone has to support and support. If you also give me the success of a joint law as a premiere, then of course I am particularly pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17854	Mr Puswald has been mentioned as the next speaker. The watch is set to 3 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17872	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! To take the tension of my speech: We will agree to this law, though only with great unrest. [[Abg. Großruck: The Matura certificate does not contain how many “fleck” you have, the most important thing you have!]] This unhappiness is due to the fact that this law, from its technique and content, is actually not worthy of an excellent civil service, as it is especially available to the Minister of Justice. The quality of this law is insufficient. The law is not sufficiently formulated, it is contradictory in itself, and it largely passes by practice. It is precisely the wish of my colleague Mr Mag. Ikrath said that legal certainty would not be sufficiently fulfilled here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] And that is only because, for my incomprehensible reasons, the Ministry of Justice initially ruled for a long time inactivity and then obviously in a “Hauruck action” with a quality that we are otherwise used to only by the Ministers of the Straster and Gehrer, a law that is very much to be desired because of this insufficient processing and revision in its quality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As we can see from Parliament's correspondence, this law is intended to implement two EU directives, which is also reflected in the text of the law. If one reads the “parliamentary correspondence”, then it is thought that these two EU directives would include, above all, the compensation rules, the bankruptcy rules and the insolvency law, which is not true. This is a prelude to the fact that despite many years of membership of the European Union, Austria has failed to implement these EU directives, which have been in force for a long time, even though there have been several innovations in the field of bankruptcy and compensation in the last two years. The Federal Government and the Ministry of Justice have made it easy to implement the EU directives in good time. We hope that in the future we will not be forced to accept laws of this inadequate quality, just because the legal need to implement EU directives arises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17928	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e17946	Mr President. Federal Minister! I was glad to see that Mr Puswald, after his failure to make his last speech, had fallen again. – Unfortunately, this is not the case! Mr Puswald, I give you a good tip: If you feel unhappiness to decide on this law if you are of insufficient quality if you think the law leaves you to want, if it is contradictory and if it passes by practice, then if you want to be a serious Member, you may not agree to it – quite simply! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald:...to implement the EU directive, Mr. Cot!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Often everyone has done this!]] Ladies and gentlemen! International insolvency law is a very specific matter. This new regulation is important and necessary. So far, as has already been done, it has been: If no government contract existed, creditors would have no way of accessing the debtor's foreign assets at domestic bankruptcy. The drastic example of Mr Ikrath regarding Switzerland shows you how necessary a new regulation has become. It is the implementation of an EU directive. The international insolvency law is thus incorporated into the Austrian bankruptcy order. Also foreign assets will be included in a domestic bankruptcy in the future, and vice versa, a foreign insolvency procedure will of course also be recognised in Austria. From our point of view, it is not just a necessary, but a balanced, very good law that we decide today.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18007	Mr Böhmdorfer has spoken from the government bank. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18026	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Puswald, I would like to say one thing very clearly: Criticism is something we like to hear in the Ministry of Justice, but it has to be objective. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] If you read your own speeches and check them for concreteness and perceptibility, you will see that this was not criticism, but polemics. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: No!]] This ministry does not need to have its officials cut down. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: I praised the officials, Minister!]] If you want to criticise, I ask you to do this – as an academic – also academically and not in this very simple form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18088	Mr Puswald spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr. Dr. Puswald, you know § 58 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, and please begin with the replay of the allegation you wish to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18136	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has just given me the impression that in my speech I had cut off the officials of his ministry. [[Abg. Neudeck: Did you do it!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – This finding is incorrect! I have explicitly praised the officials of the ministry and have explained that the lack of quality of the law is not to be reconciled with the quality of the employees I personally know and estimate, so that I did not bring this fact back to their lack of professional qualifications, but to any other circumstance that is not in the quality of the employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18199	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft law, the title and the entry into 33 of the Supplements. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Puswald and colleagues to take a seat. – Thank you very much. I am now seeking the approval of those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – It is also unanimous. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. 10. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (32 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Banking Act, the Gambling Act, the Capital Market Act, the Insurance Supervisory Act and the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act (67 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18251	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. As the first speaker of the debate, Mr Dr. Stummfully spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18275	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With this amendment to the Banking Act, we are already taking another step towards Europe. We make adjustments to the EU's money laundering directives, but also to the FATF's special recommendations against money laundering. I admit that we have had very strong discussions in our own group, especially on the point where the novel provides that the customer must present an official photo identification card for the first time when it comes to the inclusion of business links. This, of course, has caused some excitement, especially in rural regions, where all those who act are familiar, and has been perceived as additional bureaucracy, the more so when the EU Directive does not expressly demand an official photo identification. On the other hand, it was true that both the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank and the Financial Market Supervisory Board have meant that we really have a completely white vest and that the seriality and trustworthiness of the Austrian financial centre are preserved, we should anchor this very precise formulation that an official photo identification is to be provided in the novelle in the first time business contacts are made. I would like to admit that in an internal discussion of our group – Jakob Auerweiss that – I am allergic to the fact that we always play the preferred student in EU matters, that we adapt to the EU, but always make more of an eye. In this case, however, it is not only about adapting to EU law, but also about the delicate question of how the FATF, the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering, is dealing with the international organisation against money laundering. There were experts' opinions in such a way that we decided to address our concerns regarding the role of primary school students and the bureaucracy and to anchor the presentation of the official photo identification in this law. I admit that it was not undisputed and will not continue to be. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a second issue that I have just discussed with Mr Matznetter and I admit that it would have been better if we had been able to talk about it in committee; but at that time we were not so far: In the Banking Act – in contrast to the whole other legal area – managing directors of banks are not entitled to the presumption of innocence, but it is stated that financial market supervision must remove an executive of a bank from his office when charges are filed – no matter how the charge goes, of course, he can also be acquitted. However, with the indictment, he must in any case be removed from his office. It would, of course, be a very serious thing for the Austrian financial centre if important managing directors were removed from their office because an indictment was filed. – It turns out afterwards that they are acquitted, but they are already gone. We have said that if the whole novel is under the EU-adaptation aspect, we look at how this is regulated in the EU. The result was: We are taking a special position with the Banking Act in Austria. There is no EU country that is also pushing aside the suspicion of innocence for managing directors of banks, so to speak, saying that they are in any case immediately withdrawing their office. We have now found a formulation that is common in the EU, so with this regulation, our banking law is moving more towards Europe. We rely exclusively on personal reliability. This means that the financial market supervision has to check whether the personal reliability of the managing directors is given – yes or no. This also provides a certain scope for financial market supervision as the top control body of our money and credit equipment. Ladies and gentlemen! That's it. I say it again: This is a novel with which, as I believe, Austria's financial centre is moving a little further towards Europe and is gaining even more seriosity, trustworthiness and reliability.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18342	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18361	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is equal to 9 p.m., an advanced hour, and this is not the time to regulate things that concern the reputation of the Austrian credit instrument in a hush-fush action of the night. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When we begin to whip through legislation on events affecting few people in order to achieve something, the opposite will happen: This will not help the reputation and ultimately also the quality of Austria's financial centre, but will harm it. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like We only had a short time to address the problem: It is not true that the opposition would not be prepared to engage in a proper dialogue on these issues, and it is not true that the person who has triggered the problems is not in this House. It's a lawyer and his law firm who believed they had to make a policy to damage the banks! - Where is he anyway? [[The speaker points to the empty place of Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer on the government bank.]] - He's gone! But whoever then falls for his rights at the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, are those who have legitimate claims, provided that credit interest is not properly calculated or that savings account rates have not been properly credited, and are not compensated for them. We would have proposed a solution for this part, which would have provided both sides with the necessary clarity. I'm just saying, If today, by means of the amendment to this meaningful amendment to the Banking Act, you make an occasion for this, which is still constitutional, because you are actually giving the financial market supervision a regulatory authority that you can give to a minister, but not a subordinated independent institution, then go on a thin ice. Victims could be exactly those institutions that we really want to protect in their reputation. It is not a problem that, in the proper storage of money, strict guidelines are needed. the lines are valid. Also for my profession, lawyers, notaries and similar professions there are very strict rules, and I think there is no reason to change that. What you might need to change would be the occupation of the Ministry of Justice. That would be more urgent! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to use the remaining speaking time for a few words on the principles of the obligation to identify. We have also discussed this for a very long time in the financial committee, and we have also discussed the fact that the SPÖ, like the other parties represented in the High House, is interested in the fact that Austria does not get into the reputation of a financial centre where terrorist and drug money laundering transactions are possible and take place. This commitment of this House should apply to all areas. It should also apply if the offence is perhaps a slightly lower one. Therefore, as regards identification, we have pointed out that we would like to see exceptions that are still contained in the present template removed, in particular as regards the transfer of the client at any time within the framework of the data set of the transferred credit: This is not a technical problem in Austria today, and there is no reason to allow an exemption in this area. Nevertheless, we will agree to this bill, and I repeat: There is no reason to say yes on occasion legislation here in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18452	The next speaker was Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18473	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter, I did not fully understand you. You do not agree with this regulation, which has been adopted here, but you have not tabled an amendment either. They would have had the opportunity to make themselves visible in this form, but there was very little to hear in the Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: He wasn't in the committee, the request!]] – But today you would have had the opportunity to bring in your wishes and desires. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Have you made the request at all?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for the amendment of the Banking Act is the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. It is a very useful measure to adapt the legislation to the EU money laundering directive and to take account of the needs of the international community. It is a matter of increasing the obligation to issue invoices and account movements: taking into account certain derogations and derogations, for example for students, for the institution of school savings and for persons who, as Mr Stump has pointed out, are so-called well-known people in the rural area, who also have corresponding seriality. Three of the eight FATF special recommendations for credit and financial institutions have also been implemented. The remaining five special recommendations will be re-adjusted by the Ministry of Justice. The Finance Ministers in the ECOFIN Council voted in favour of all Member States introducing a concession requirement for monetary transactions and not merely requiring a registration obligation. Decidedly, the exchange houses are also taken into account. The exchange-rate business, which was also regulated in this way until 1994, is again classified as a concession-based banking business. This will also enable FMA, financial market supervision, to take measures to prevent misdevelopments and abuses in exchange transactions in the future. We shall be voting in favour of this request without delay.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18526	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18545	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! – Almost as high as the government barricade on the first day of its public performance! – I still have not been able to follow my previous speaker completely: [[the speaker adjusts the height of the speaker's desk]] He is now untenable for something that has not yet been brought in, which should have changed Matznetter, although he cannot yet know! So this is the “logic” that is now being released to the opposition. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Ikrath, it could have been so harmonious at this point. They will experience it often enough, especially in the Financial Committee, that we very often decide on the matter together, unanimously. In this case, too, this basic proposal applies to the present proposal. I don't want to stop at this. – I have already crossed my speaking time today, to the disfavor of Klubobmann Molterer, the shorter I wanted to speak now. - We will agree. In the fight against money laundering, we in Austria have not yet been in superfluous pattern. This is all the more important; we are all in agreement. What is happening to the amendment that I know even less than Mr Matznetter – that is probably because we are the even smaller opposition party and he has not yet reached us – so if you expect us now to be stupid – although it has sounded very plausible, at least at first listening – is that we can now somehow agree, without being able to understand in any way what similar rules exist within the EU, that is a bit difficult. I didn't even feel that you really expected it. Otherwise, consensus remains. It must have been. – Mr Ikrath, at the next item on the agenda, we will have a unanimous decision again. It can be so nice here!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18594	Mr Mag, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. Grasser. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18616	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. With this presentation, we have the matter of fighting money laundering and terrorist financing on the agenda. We are all aware that, not least in the context of the debate on anonymity, the timely and complete implementation of the international guidelines for Austria is very important: important for the financial centre Austria, because international organisations – whether the Commission of the European Union, OECD or FATF – have a strong focus on Austria. Therefore, the implementation of the money laundering directive in the areas of credit and financial institutions, insurance companies and playing banks is also very important to us. We implement three of the eight special recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force on money launching. They know that we provide materially for an extended duty of care for the institutions, in particular where we are concerned with identification and reporting obligations. I am well aware that some of them have certain reservations regarding these identification issues. However, I would like to point out that we have made a real effort to achieve maximum practical justice and the greatest possible customer-friendliness with this proposal. A customer identification with the photo identification is only required in connection with new business connections. Post-identification of already existing customer connections is not necessary. I think we have planned practical arrangements for special cases, such as minors or trustees. The Committee has also reached an unbureaucratic system for school saving. This, as I believe, has enabled us to implement the directives fully. With two sentences on the amendment proposal in mind: I think it is right for us to transfer to a general system of reliability the necessary grounds for managing directors due to pending criminal proceedings and to allow financial market surveillance, in its independence, a margin of discretion for appropriate individual case-by-case assessment. I can assure you that we are actually approaching international standards, as is the case with the codified Banking Directive. In this respect, it is also an important complement to the credibility, stability and also confidence in the Austrian financial centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18666	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18684	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is left of a Member of Parliament, after this exhaustive and detailed speech by Mr Finanzminister, except for the honourful task of making a formal request for amendment, which the Federal Minister has already suggested. The amendment to § 5 para. 1 includes the separation of the requirement for management into personal requirements (Z7) and professional fitness (Z8), with Z7 now relying on a personal reliability requirement that is based on the text of Article 6 of the EU Banking Directive 2000/12/EC. This provision shall enter into force on call. Furthermore, this amendment relating to § 40 and 41 is necessary. The implementation of the FATF Special Recommendation VII on Customer Information in Transfer Transport will be temporarily postponed, as the EU Commission has in the meantime announced its intention to create uniform EU rules. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, from my point of view, let me add the following to this draft: Especially in connection with the attacks on the World Trade Center, this implementation of the measures is necessary, but it is important to cut international criminals from their sources of funding. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Although there are some estimates of the extent and extent of illegal money laundering, these vary greatly. The International Monetary Fund estimates that 600 billion dollars or 6 percent of the world's social product will be washed worldwide. A safe source is only the money raised at the borders. Last year alone, €900 million was seized by the customs authorities at the Luxembourg border. This example, as a warning and as a confirmation of the necessity of this new law, has been brought to your attention, and in this sense I may close.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18737	I declare that the request put forward in its key points by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Principal, Mrs Mag, has just been tabled by Mrs Mag. Frieser, also presented in writing, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure; it will be annexed to the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] The next speaker was Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18820	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would also like to take a very brief look at the rules on customer identification in this government template; I have already done so in the Committee. In § 40 para. 1 is clearly regulated that identification must be made by means of photo identification, i.e. passport, identity card or driving licence. In this section 40 para. 1 is also noted that it should be borne in mind that some travel documents from strangers, especially from the Arab region, do not contain a full date of birth. This alone does not necessarily exclude the passport holder from identification. However, if any reference to the age of the person concerned is missing, the ID card must not be used for identification. I ask, Mr Minister – and I have already put this question in committee – that: Then what? What else can be used for identification? The answer of Mr Stumpfully to this my question in the committee was if I have written it properly: This is not a question of legislation, it is of enforcement. On the other hand, I mean: The legislator must give money to the money business staff to carry out person identifications, and must not leave all of this open and say: Do what you want! I wanted to bring in this aspect, so I wanted to point out that this passage, this exception, seems dubious and that it actually opens the door and gate again. I would like another sentence. Citing October 2001 from the “Economic Sheet”, from a report following the bad attack on the World Trade Center, which is – I quote –: It has been found that the money, about $500 000, has been divided between several people of Arabic origin. - Quote. I would ask you to see this quote or this report with regard to what I believe is not completely regulated in this government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18872	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18891	My second speech, now very briefly and concisely. I would like to comment on two points. One point has already been pointed out several times today. In the case of the identification of the customer, it was important to consider a non-serious additional burden on the customer, who has an official photo ID – I would point out that a driver's license is already sufficient – and an additional burden on the bank, whose administrative burden increases, and thus the costs, which then also burdened the customer, and the Trust in the Austrian financial centre, which is strengthened and further improved by a crystal clear scheme. We agreed in the Committee that the higher-quality interest is the second and therefore the somewhat stricter identification provision than the current EU directive is being purchased. Secondly, this was also the subject of the Committee, as is occasionally the tendency of ministerial drafts, it originally gave us a regulation which would once again have left us more papal than the Pope or would have had some sort of model student role taken in advance obedience. It referred to payment transactions, i.e. something that concerns everyone because every money moves. In the draft, there was still a completely overarching arrangement, which the one who had transferred money, or the bank, where that would have happened, should have received and made available to customer data. This would have had massive consequences for the computer systems and thus for the costs that ultimately occur in the price for the customer. To this end, an EU directive will be in place for next year. The Committee felt that we should wait for this EU directive to form a truly stable regulatory basis next year for the national legislator, that is, for us. In this context, I would like to point out that the amendment, which has now been criticised by the SPÖ, includes exactly this regulation in paragraph 2, which, I believe, is not only very positive and very wise, but should also be carried by all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18933	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18951	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A few brief comments on a novel or partial transposition of an EU directive, on which there would be a lot to say. It has already been mentioned – I too am in favour – that it is not about always being preferred students when implementing it. It is true, however, that Austria and money laundering have always been a very sensitive issue, that there have always been a lot of attacks from abroad, partly clearly under the belt line. I can only remind you that, for example, the Vice-President of the Italian Parliament's Anti-Mafia Commission, Maurizio Calvi, who once even said Austria was the "centre" of international money laundering. – This was certainly an attack clearly under the belt line. ==References====External links== I would like to mention this on September. The reason for these novels is also the 11th. ==References== However, these terrible events in New York, or the financing of these events, would not have been prevented by this money laundering directive, even if they were applied worldwide, because according to current knowledge, financing was done from original clean sources and not from previously washed money. It can also be seen that the money laundering directive should not be seen as an all-healing tool in the fight against terrorism and in the fight against other criminal activities. It is not only legal, but above all not only criminal, but also economic, that the fight against money laundering is an essential point. Although there is hardly any theoretical and economic literature on it, there is enough empirical evidence for the interaction between organised crime, money laundering and the shadow economy. I should just like to remind you that, for example, the International Monetary Fund believes that money laundering is able to induce counter-intuitive capital movements, so that exchange rates and interest rates can also be influenced, and thus also the stability of financial markets, so that this essential issue is also taken into account. In Vienna, there is a conference on The issue of money laundering, which has also been noted today, is that money laundering has now been able to endanger the entire global financial system. However, it must not be forgotten that the fight against money laundering is ultimately a fight against symptomism and that it does not treat or eliminate the underlying problems. Rather, it is similar to the low-burning of fields of coca farmers: This does not solve the addiction problem, nor does it solve the following money laundering problems. Similar problems exist in the area of trafficking in human beings and towing. If, for example, the international community fails to reach international conventions in the area of money laundering, in order to provide economic reasons for such criminal activities, all this will only remain piecework, but of course we will agree to this work.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e18999	Mr Marizzi is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19017	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, Mr President, we are not in principle opposed to your amendment, but you have to understand that if you now put in such a difficult matter an amendment – and it would probably have been all day long to talk to us about it – we cannot agree at third reading. Why didn't you bring this into the committee? Why didn't you talk to us? I think that would have been useful. You always say you have to look for the dialogue, you have to look for the outstretched hands, but you didn't seem to have done that and didn't need it. Mr Matznetter has been sitting in plenary all day, so at 9 a.m. in the evening you will come and say: Let us try to make this change of law! - Good. Today, with this law, we are actually amending five laws, which is also useful: the Banking Act, the Gambling Act, the Capital Market Act, the Insurance Supervision Act and the Financial Market Supervision Act. Mr Hoscher has already pointed out that an international conference on the prevention of money laundering took place in Vienna today, and the key statement was – I really want to repeat this – that money laundering can endanger financial systems worldwide. This international congress in Vienna was very important, and I think it is also significant that it took place in Vienna, because we were put in a corner by some countries as if Vienna were actually the money laundering square. However, if you look at the number of ads or assumptions in Austria, you can see that they are actually rather small compared to other countries, namely 284 cases in 2000 and 248 cases in 2001. ==References====External links== After all, on September 11th, it was not financed by illegal money – it is now obvious – but by pressure after September 11th. September has just become stronger. That is why the Community has included these frauds in the list of crimes in connection with money laundering. . All other things have already been dealt with by my colleagues or by the previous speakers and by the Minister. I believe that it is important to accept this law, I believe that this law is very good for our country, and therefore we agree at least until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19063	Please take a seat! – No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. This means that we can vote on the draft law in 67 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have been silent, Dipl.-Ing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary and amending proposal. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Stummvoll, Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, colleagues and others have requested the insertion of a new point 8a in Article I. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this supplementary motion tabled by Mr Stumvoll, Mr Principal, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. In addition, Deputies Dr. Stummvoll, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Prinzhorn, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment which refers to a number of points in Article I. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign. - That's accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – The law is therefore also adopted in third reading. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (27 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Insurance Supervisory Act, the Cartel Act 1988, the Insurance Tax Act 1953, the Insurance Contract Act 1958, the Atomic Liability Act 1999, the Federal Act on the Extended Protection of Victims, the Financial Market Supervisory Act, the Stock Exchange Act and the Banking Act (VAG-Novelle 2003) (68 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19135	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. As the first speaker of the debate, Mr Dr Maier has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19159	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the matter available here has been debated sufficiently in the Financial Committee and has also been unanimously taken into account, although an amendment has been tabled. the proposal was accepted only by the votes of the major parties, but did not find the Greens' consent. But this is not the reason why I am speaking here, but the reason why I am speaking is that a debate on pension provision and pension reform took place in this committee and, as I know Mr Klubobmann Cap, he has just given up three speakers, namely Mr Moser, Mr Matznetter, and Mr Bauer, as well as I would like to say that I would like to make a few comments on this, because the pension reform from our point of view – and today's debate has already shown it – is a guarantee of the first pillar and the second and third pillar is almost a guarantee for the future. Mr Bauer spoke in his debate in the Committee on Payments. Mr Moser will ask the distribution question, and I assume that Mr Matznetter will again be the example of pensioner or pensioner with an average pension of €653 and that the link will be to the €110 million that make up the premiums for the award-winning savings. In order to reduce this, I would like to inform you of a study by the 1991 Advisory Council on Economic and Social Affairs, which of course also belonged to the representatives of the SPÖ and the Chamber of Labour. Mr Muhm, who has recently also written a number of letters to many Members of this House, has, of course, also listened to this forum. In 1991 this Advisory Board voted in favour of harmonizing existing pension schemes, removing constitutional differences between different systems, approaching the effective retirement age to the statutory retirement age, and then criticizing the increase in contribution payments – I would like to inform you now; I quote – that: The Austrian pension system is, to an exceptionally high international level, concentrated on public contributions and benefits, which are regulated by law. Business and private pension schemes play a relatively small role and should be built up. - Quote. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is exactly what this government is doing, ladies and gentlemen, that is what the Advisory Council presented in 1991. As I have said, these calls are now saving up in the debate, let me just point out: I do not want a discussion to take place in Austria as it is currently taking place in Germany. The chairman of the SPD, Schröder, is currently dealing with proposals from a group within the SPD, which obviously does not have the same responsibility as he wishes. I invite you to also bear a little responsibility and not to strengthen any polemic contributions that are likely to come now. Mr Klubobmann Cap will, I suppose, have asked you to bring in what he could not say or what could not be said at the first debate, perhaps now. I'll hold you once again. The 1991 Advisory Council study already pointed out this, and the rest – and only need to look at Germany – we should save ourselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19216	The next speaker was Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19245	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I hope that the second point will be spared by surprising amendments, as we would like to give our assent in this area at third reading. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Don't be too early!]] Nevertheless – and this has already been done in the Committee in a very large way – it is also an opportunity to talk about those points, about the direction in which our pension system is driven by the activity of black and blue. Pensions in the ASVG will be reduced, and now, in order to save colleagues Maier the amounts, this time from the average pension, – by the way, the average ASG-pension is €895 –: In the area of cuts, the first pillar on page 45 was predicted in the assessment draft that the cuts begin at 13.5 percent and go up to 17 percent. Today you have presented us with a draft whose poison teeth are supposed to have been removed and to which FPÖ can agree, reality is only: If you calculate those amounts that will continue to be reduced in the federal grant, you recognize that you still have to have reductions of an average of 9.5 to over 11 percent, otherwise this will not be the case. – This is the reality for the morning discussion! And here we have the opportunity to point out that you are still on the move to the second and, above all, to pump money from state resources into the third pillar. If you ask why we agree, I say so clearly: The amendment to the Insurance Supervision Act ensures that, in the case of the provision of future provisions in the field of an insurer, and not possibly insurance customers who rely on a general, proper and solid investment, as Austrian life insurance has made for decades, then have to find that such a thing is mixed with active-spective models – fund-bound investments – which may then result in an increase in the cost of those who did not want it. We therefore agree to this separation and also to the amendment aimed at it. What it doesn't mean is that we have only one second of understanding that at a time when cuts in the first column are made at an average pension of € 895 for women – to stay with my colleague Maier – at an average pension of €653, there state funds are taken away by an average of 10 percent and then given 9.5% premium for saving shares. This is a policy that cannot be supported! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19288	The next speaker was Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19306	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment to the Insurance Supervision Act deals with premium-privileged future provision, i.e. the third pillar used to promote private pension provision. It should be placed on safe legs with this legislative innovation and used to create a stocking. It is intended to ensure clear guidelines on the provision of cover and rules on the control of risk assessment by the Financial Markets Authority. The Financial Markets Supervisory Authority must also know the risks of having the investment risks under control. In addition, the insurance institutions will also seek advice in the future in order to ensure these safeguards in addition. The award-winning future provision will also be applied in the classical life insurance sector. And to give your argument, Mr Matznetter, a little support: There is an EU report that clearly notes that we need action here in Austria. I quote literally: Not only for Austria, therefore, the Commission proposes to strengthen both business and private security of the future. - Quote. It is thus ensured in the European observation that we also need action here. No one goes away from the first pillar, no one goes away from the importance of securing the first pillar, just as it has been discussed all day with regard to the draft pension. We want and need to secure the first pillar of pension for the population in our country. However, private provision is also a matter of setting priorities. If in the field of life insurance and pension provision in 1993 it was already 44 percent of all households that had at least one contract, it was almost 50 percent of households in 2001 who had at least completed a life insurance contract for future provision. Mr Matznetter! There is, however, no full protection for the future of pensions in the media today, but these pension insurance measures are a real and effective start-up aid so that pension insurance will remain attractive in the future, and they will also be brought to this end. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's such a holler what you're saying!]] The provision of staff as the second pillar for pension funds complements this pyramid of public, private and operational provision for the future, and this novelle is a very useful measure in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19349	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19367	Mr President. Federal Minister! The issue is not only with us today, but all the time – we have discussed it in the committee too – but the previous speaker has managed to provoke me again, so that I may talk over my planned one and a half minutes. Look, you've messed up something fundamental again: This is not a question of full or partial casho in the system that is practically individually transferred, but the payment procedure is, as it were, defined as follows: The sum used for the redistribution of assets to the non-active is transferred at the same time and comes to the disbursement. That this can hit its borders is clear – we have talked about it for a long time today – so not everything can remain as it is; et cetera. But I really have the suspicion with you – sometimes I think so, that's ideology; in others I feel it's ideology, you may have just confused it – that this thing is deliberately being cataclysed so that people are left with nothing but to do what you're now saying: Ha, there's a promotion now! Get in! Get in! And, look, that's ideology, too. Of course! I personally have nothing against private care – on the contrary: I see this as a good for which one can choose, just as those people who can afford it think of whether they fly to the Maldives or perhaps “only” to Italy and instead buy something else. So it is with the question: How much do you consume now, and how much do you put yourself on the side? - Great! Bravo, market economy, bravo, individual decision! But what is the state supposed to go here and secure it with? Because, as is always argued by your side, so-called performance providers are not supposed to mess so deeply in old age? – The service providers should take care of themselves in good time. I'd understand that by private means. With you there is still some “private” who pays for something, and where it is really needed it must not be! That's a little bit the slant of your argumentation. That is why I believe that private is to be private and that this should be institutionally secured. [[Abg. Murauer: There can be something so reasonable, you won't understand anyway!]] It is very important that the insurance products that exist really do. That is indeed the task of the state. But why this is to be constantly and more funded is another question. Especially you from FPÖ don't always take credit for EU recommendations, but I don't care if the EU thinks it's somehow different. I'm not so sure if she's so strongly recommending this, either, because it's so that we have a viable charging procedure, and you shouldn't do that in such a way that you can really think it's going to be sick under the instructions of saving injections. Let's see that the charging process is what a charging procedure should be, and let's leave the private private – and then maybe you'll get to know yourself better in your ideology as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19407	Mr Finanzminister Karl-Heinz Grasser spoke from the government bank. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19428	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to comment on two key points of this Insurance Supervision Act. First point: We are setting solvency rules, i.e. we are getting a little more stringent about the capital rules for insurance. . I think that the own resources for insurance should be extremely important for all of us, especially in times when we know that insurance or pension funds in other countries are much more serious than in Austria because of financial market developments in the context of the current economic situation and are in difficulty. It is therefore good to try, here in the area of equity, to re-establish what has been happening in the banking sector in Austria for a long time. Second point: The provision for the future has been addressed. – I believe that it is also important in this context that we take a step in the direction that insurance can now offer these products in the traditional coverage stock. That is to say, there will be a greater spread of this future product. In contrast to what Mr Kogler and Mr Matznetter have said, I say: I am proud that this Federal Government and the House have managed in the majority of the past legislative period to establish a future-care product as a third pillar in Austria. It is very well accepted by the population. I am in favour and think that it is a nice opportunity to give the Austrian population the opportunity to invest their money in difficult times up to an amount of approximately €1 800 with a return of more than 9 percent. This is a good product that will also give safety for your own precautions! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] I think it is very clear that we should stand for a three-pillar product and a three-pillar model as part of pension provision. And I say very clearly: This should not happen at the expense of the first pillar in order to favour the second and third, but we are very clearly concerned with both of them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] We have the courage to do what has been necessary for many years, namely to establish a secure and reliable first pillar over a fundamental reform. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eder.]] We have, together with the social partners, taken the first essential step towards a common second pillar in the last legislative period with the employee protection law. And in the past legislative period, we have also taken the important first step towards an effective third pillar, all in the interest of ensuring the Austrian population the highest standard of living even in old age and in retirement. That is the right way, that is the way that is taken internationally by all countries. – You would be well advised if you supported us on this path!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19499	As the next speaker, Mr Bauer, I should like to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19518	Mr President. Federal Minister! First of all: Mr Federal Minister, we believe – and we also support this – that the solvency considerations are correct in order to build up reserves in addition to the provisions. That is why we support them, as well as the entire law. However, I believe that as Minister of Finance, you need to know that the so-called yield of 9.5% you have addressed is actually a premium and not a return. [[Abg. Eder: But that's meat!]] I would at least consider this an important correction! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Normally, you talk about returns when you've produced them, and not if you get them, so to speak, as a gift – promotion. This is usually not a matter of returns to explain the difference to you. Secondly, Mr Maier has said that the debate on pensions will continue now. The fact is that the comparability of different economies is difficult because, for example, Holland and the UK have a very, very wide-ranging second and third pillar. – I say: We do not have to take over what is better covered by another system. In Austria, we have chosen the way of the payment procedure, and in view of that, I believe that there is no such need. It is also true that over time private insurers have lost those insurance parts and business areas covered by public social security. It's not bad yet, because that's exactly what someone says: Let us compare our system with others, for example with the American health system, and then it comes to the point that there is the highest cost of health costs there, namely 14.5 percent, while we have a share of 8.5 percent of the gross domestic product. However, we have insured all people – and only a part in the US! Therefore, it should not be said on the basis of international comparisons: Let's do something wrong! This is the completely wrong process! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore believe that we simply need to recognise that there is a system that has proved itself, and that a different system should be gradually favoured and even supported by taxpayers. However, we agree with the proposal, and not because we agree that the second and third columns discussion is being carried on in this way, because it is not only a barbaric matter, as others have said, but it is still not a question of columns. However, we believe that the protection of policyholders is a priority, and in this sense we agree to this bill in the interests of policyholders. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19567	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19586	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker of today's plenary session, I can say: We have now returned to the subject on which we have mainly concerned ourselves, namely the provision of the future and the protection of old age. Mr Federal Minister, I must also disagree with you in your analysis: Apart from the distinction between yield and premium, it is also so that this third pillar depends substantially on the development of the stock market. – We have already said that. The fact that the chosen form is suboptimal in Austria is also due to the fact that only more Austria has a capitalisation rate below 30 percent and therefore only more can be set up there. - That's the first point. The second point – and this is actually the essential thing I want to say today – is that this form of economic policy, which is made by the government, is very peculiar. Today, we have found that a pension guarantee debate will suddenly be decided on in the tow. And there is – in turn in the tow for this legislative adaptation to be decided – the insurance of the third pillar. This too is a hidden area, and one could continue these examples indefinitely. If we still make international comparisons, I must also say here in advance that we also need to adapt the pension fund law in the budget accompanying laws, because capital market profitability is not sufficient to finance the claims that have arisen in the meantime. One last point I would like to raise here is that I am particularly concerned that there is no closed economic policy in Austria by this Federal Government. Individual measures will be taken at random, which are not coordinated with one another, in order to ensure that individual adjustments and corrections are made very quickly, in order to achieve a corresponding effect at all. If this economic policy continues in Austria, I am really worried! I would like to conclude with a sentence that begins with the words: Start to worry! Follow details. Good night, Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19635	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I would ask the honourable Members to take their place, because we are voting on the draft law and the title and entry into 68 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-04-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00012_d7e19683	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 97/A to 114/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 331/J to 358/J have also been received. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations is scheduled for 21.51 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
