ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3168	I'll open the 5. Meeting of the National Council and welcome all of you, after a long break, very cordially on this part-session day. The official protocols of the 3rd and 4ths. Meeting of 23. January 2003 the Parliament's Directorate has remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Heinzl and Bayr are reported as prevented. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3202	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Austria and the European Union – challenges through the Iraq crisis” Mr Spindelegger was the first to speak. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3226	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We as the ÖVP have chosen this topic for the current hour, because it is not only the crucial issue at the moment, but also in broad circles of the population in Austria. Many citizens in our country fear that the consequences of an Iraq war will also be felt in Austria. It is a bold premise, which can be triggered by a war that rightly disturbs many citizens in Austria. Therefore, from the People's Party's point of view, I should like to maintain our principles in this difficult phase: The first principle is that, as an EIA, we also want in this country, there is a peaceful solution that there is no war in Iraq. We must do everything we can to do, as indicated in Security Council resolution 1441, to ensure that a political solution is achieved without military force. War in Iraq would not only bring death and destruction to many citizens, but would also mean that in a very sensitive region there could be a war with inevitable consequences. Many of us know what it is all about in this region with the other Arab states, with the conflict between Israel and Palestine. That is why none of us can want to see a war in this situation in which there are inevitable consequences. I should like to maintain our second principle, which is equally important: The danger posed by Baghdad cannot be underestimated. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us remember what has happened in the last ten, twelve years: Weapons that are weapons of mass destruction, biological and chemical weapons, missiles with a range of several hundred kilometers in the hand of a dictator are a permanent danger. Let us remember what in Iraq itself, namely that dictator Saddam Hussein has eradicated large parts of the Kurdish population with a poison gas use. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not to be underestimated such a danger for the world community either, so we must properly assess this danger in our policy. It is therefore necessary – and this is our demand in this context – that there should be disarmament in Iraq, that these weapons be not only found, but also destroyed under supervision. I should like to mention our third principle in this regard: The United Nations is the hub for a peaceful solution – they must remain. The United Nations has gained importance with the Security Council as the instrument in operation in recent years. Since the East-West confrontation with the automatic veto of the other side no longer exists, the Security Council has gained new importance. I think we all do well to support fully these efforts in the Security Council. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It must remain, ladies and gentlemen, that the United Nations is the hub for resolving such a conflict. In this context, I do not hide that many, and rightly so, are criticising the fact that individual states think they have the power and could claim the right for themselves. This applies to all in this context, including the United States of America, who also have to comply with these principles of the United Nations. I would also like to point out, however, that, as a People's Party, we are rejecting cheap anti-Americanism, as it appears there and there in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! To wait for government representatives to hack into the United States of America is not in the interest of Austria. On the contrary! That cannot be our foreign policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Whatever the dark motives for such an anti-Americanism, we have to focus on the principles of the United Nations. Of course, this must apply to everyone is a principle. We must also remember, however, that there must be someone who is able to implement decisions. When we look at the past few years, we see that there is no other power in this world that is able to do so, then when the United Nations has taken decisions to implement them into action. I therefore do not understand, for example, that there is criticism from Dr. One of the Foreign Ministers, who is currently following this principle that the UN must remain the stage and that the Security Council is the instrument for doing so, gives way to Austria's acting towards the USA-friendly. Ladies and gentlemen! It cannot be the interest of Austria to take an extreme position there; there are several in this context. I believe that we must adhere strictly to the principle of bringing the United Nations and the Security Council to the centre and not again pouring oil into the fire. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I come to the fourth principle, which is important to us: The European Union has just presented a debate on Iraq in recent weeks, which we do not want to raise on the policy of the European Union. We know that the European Union is working on this – we support it – to establish a common foreign policy; it is more necessary than ever. The way in which two states believe that they have a special proposal to be taken up by other Europeans – whether members of the Union or countries that are just ahead of it – in a public way cannot be the future of Europe! It must not be the European Union's position on the world stage with different opinions rather than a direction. We as the ÖVP want the European Union to find a foreign policy in the future and to have a corresponding impact on Europe's foreign policy on the world stage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In this context, I must say that we are not concerned with bringing Europe into a world power, a European chauvinism in the future. We are concerned that the European Union is aware of its interests on the world stage – on the basis of its size, on the basis of the many people who live on the European continent, and on the basis of economic interests. That is the crucial task! We cannot see others acting on this world stage when we know that we Europeans have a role to play, but we do not currently exercise. We all need to work to ensure that Europe effectively represents the interests of its people as a world player on the world stage. There is hope. After the last summit of the European Union on 17 November, the European Union adopted a There was also a clear commitment through the common line on February. And see: The United States is beginning to re-enter Europe, to talk to us in detailed negotiations. I see that as a positive sign. This brings me to our fifth principle, to the role of Austria. In Austria, ladies and gentlemen, no one wants war. There will also be no Austrian soldier participating in a war. We are also not an area of march and not a country through which uncontrolled overflights can be carried out. We are acting in accordance with the principles of the United Nations and want the foundations laid down in Security Council resolution 1441 to be implemented. To this end, Iraq needs to disarm that it is comprehensible that the weapons of mass destruction are actually destroyed. We must also contribute to this at European level, so that a common European foreign policy will be given a new dimension in the future. This is our Austrian path, which we as the Austrian People's Party fully support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3347	Mr Bundeskanzler, Dr. Schüssel, spoke on a preliminary opinion. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3369	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to thank the applicants for having chosen this issue, which is in fact the major issue of the global policy of these days and weeks, for the current hour and thus for having a meaningful debate on it in the House. The position of Austria has been very clearly described by Michael Spindelegger. In a military debate in the Gulf region around Iraq, we see a potentially dramatic threat to the international economic situation, at the same time a huge political risk potential for the whole of the Middle East. Austria is therefore strongly committed to peace at all levels, in the United Nations, in the European Union and bilaterally. In this respect, I do not think there is a difference – there must be no difference between the political groups of this House. This is our principle in Austrian foreign policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! War can and must always be the ultimate means in a chain of political, diplomatic, economic, bilateral or multilateral efforts. We have felt committed to this principle from the very beginning. A meeting took place in Vienna at Ballhausplatz at the invitation of the Foreign Minister a year ago. Together with the Secretary-General of the United Nations Kofi Annan was the Secretary-General of the Arab League Amre Moussa. with us as a guest – I was with the have lunch with you. At that time, the idea of re-immission of the weapons inspectors, who were thrown out of the country by Saddam Hussein in 1998, was born, and this was then carried out massively by Kofi Annan and by the Secretary General of the Arab League at all levels. Half a year later, the UN's weapons inspectors were admitted back. I think these inspectors have done very good work so far. They are led by two highly experienced diplomats: by El Baradei, the head of the IAEA, the nuclear energy organization based in Vienna, and by the former Foreign Minister Blix, a Sweden, by the way, the predecessor of the IAEA, a top-ranking diplomat who has the hardness and also the knowledge of really thoroughly following things. I believe that the two reports by Blix and El Baradei, which have so far been given to the UN Security Council, speak a clear language: Progress has been made, but at the same time, the Iraqi regime still misses comprehensive, immediate and transparent cooperation. In this context, the interview is very interesting, which Blix has given to the American weekly magazine “Time”. He said in it: It's really strange, then, if we ask for documents that the Iraqi regime wants to give us, it's not a problem at all to get these documents; on other issues that are sensitive to them, they say that the documents are destroyed, what a regime – literally – that "is one of the best-organized regimes in the Arab world" is unbelievable. He says, in reality, it is about many things that are perhaps less significant, but those things that are really significant could be very clear and very quickly put to the point: “... if you take anthrax, VX, the missiles and a few others, sarin”, this heavy poison, “–there are a number of them.” – That’s it! I believe it is very important to listen to what these weapons inspectors and their chairmans Blix and El Baradei say, namely that Saddam Hussein's cooperation and the destruction of these weapons, which are suitable for mass destruction, are necessary here. For 12 years UN Security Council decisions have not been implemented. I do not think that is tolerant. I therefore think that it is very essential that we give the inspectors, peace in diplomatic, political efforts, and that we do everything from the Austrian and European sides to go this way. ==References== Januaryen in the National Security Council with overwhelming majority approved and supported the line of the Federal Government. I also think it is very precise. First: We should be committed to all the measures that are appropriate to maintain and strengthen peace in the region. Secondly, In this context, the Council recommends that the Federal Government implement the positions of the European Union, in particular resolution 1441, and strongly represent the complete disarmament of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction. It recommends that the Federal Government make it clear that Austria considers explicit empowerment by the World Security Council to be a prerequisite for any military action. It recommends the Federal Government to protect Austrian citizens. It recommends that no Austrian forces participate in any action against Iraq. – No soldier of Austria shall and will take part in fighting against Iraq. It recommends that the Federal Government also make increased efforts to monitor and protect the Austrian airspace in order to safeguard Austrian sovereignty. In the end, confidentiality has been removed for this decision. This is our rule, which is a broad, cross-party consensus. I am very sure that we are also dealing with this in the mainstream with the overwhelming majority of the European Union, but above all with the populations of the European Union. The demonstrations of peace which took place a few days ago and which have been spectacular, impressive, peaceful, and which have not had any anti-Americanism as the main theme, but a positive message for peace and for political efforts, have, in my view, also been a way and a help to the European Union at its meeting a week ago, on Monday, 17. February, at last agreed on a common line, which clearly states: Give peace a chance! But let us be vigilant at the same time, because the latte that is laid by Saddam Hussein will certainly have to be applied to other dictators in the future. I think this is also true, and we should therefore be careful in all the theories that raise the idea of a political preventive strike to a doctrine, because it could undermine the authority of the UN, the United Nations, of the World Security Council, and that should not be our principle and not our aim. I was very impressed by the fact that last Monday Kofi Annan, before the European Heads of State and Government, who subsequently made a joint declaration, expressed his just-indulgence, indignant appeal: Stand by, community of states, give peace a chance, give arms inspectors the time they need – and how much time that the UN Security Council decides – to stop, almost with the various internal comments, unite behind the authority of the United Nations, then peace has a chance, but at the same time, Saddam Hussein does not give the opportunity to possibly benefit from the dispute between Europeans and Europeans with the Americans! I believe that we should welcome this message, and it will also be the guideline of the Austrian foreign policy for the next days and weeks.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3488	Thank you very much, Mr Bundeskanzler. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers must not exceed 5 minutes in the current hour following the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. We are now starting with the call of words. Mr Murauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3515	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Once again, what the Federal Chancellor has clearly put at the heart of his speech: Austria is for peace! We're doing everything we can to prevent a war! And: No Austrian soldier is to be involved in any war or sent to a war scene. The competence of action must remain with the UN Security Council, and this principle applies to all: to Austria, to all EU countries, but also to Saddam Hussein and Iraq. The following, ladies and gentlemen, must be clear to all of us: Any instability, uncertainty, disaster, conflict or war would have negative consequences for Austria, as for all other countries, as there would be huge flows of refugees. In this context, we speak of 2 million refugees to be expected. Other expected negative consequences: Hunger, illegal transport, proliferation, terrorism against certain states, also against European, negative effects on the stock exchanges, on the energy sector, and to the risk of jobs in us. Again: Everyone, even here in Austria, would be affected by a war – that must be clear to everyone, even here in this House! The policy of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, and the Council of Ministers of the European Union, was and is therefore committed to contributing to the peace process of Austria and the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Bowl II is not yet available!]] Our efforts have always been made to try to ensure that talks to avoid war do not stop, that new negotiations are being negotiated and time is gained, so that everything can be carefully considered and discussed before a military dispute occurs. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I should also like to remind you that, on behalf of the EU, on behalf of the Greek Presidency, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has held conferences with representatives of the Maghreb states in order to gain an understanding of the fact that these states are also intervening or contribute to the fact that Saddam Hussein may still be brought to the fore. Austria has always contributed to peacekeeping, and Austria has already joined the UN at the time of the Declaration of Neutrality, in 1955. In this context, I should also like to refer to Austria's accession to the EU in 1995 as well as to our commitment to a common foreign and security policy, to a common European procedure, namely to the security of our country. However, each country is primarily responsible for its own security. It will therefore be necessary for Austria itself to take care of its own safety and guarantee it – we are responsible – in all common ways, for all common ways and objectives, namely safety on land and in the air. This has been clearly held here. I have limited understanding for this, no, I am surprised that there are politicians here in the House who, on the one hand, blame the Federal Government for not being able to control what is happening in our airspace, which and how many aircraft from which to enter the Austrian airspace with what purpose, but that it is exactly the same politicians who reject the fact that actions are being put, so that the Austrian airspace with suitable aircraft, with suitable aircraft types, is controlled and secured with suitable interceptors. Only then are we not only able to count how many military aircraft hurt our airspace, but we also know who actually did that with! That is why I am seeking to remove all these politicians from their point of view of a strict Njet, an absolute No in terms of interception hunters and airspace surveillance, even though one or other of them may just smile on this matter from the opposition bank. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For us in Austria, for our Federal Government, there are still two priorities in the matter of security: firstly, to do everything to ensure that Austria's security is still guaranteed, and secondly, to influence and contribute to a common security policy both in the European Union and in the framework of the UN and OSCE.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3573	Mr Gusenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3591	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Europe would probably be most affected by a war in Iraq, It is not only because of the approximately 2 million refugees that one has to expect, but also because of the economic impact and dependence of Europe on oil from the Middle East, but also because of the political consequences of destabilising the Middle East with all possible consequences. It is therefore only understandable and correct that the peoples of Europe say: We don't want war! We should support this position here in the Austrian Parliament, with no ifs and buts, and we should have no doubt about it. It is also clear who is supporting Austria in its foreign policy. We all want a single European position. Yes, there is at a special summit – but always before and after such a one, there is no such uniform European position. For several days, for example, the United Kingdom has supported a proposal from the United States to the World Security Council, but at the same time, Germany and France, with the support of Russia and China, are submitting another proposal. It must be clear to you, of course, that these two proposals are going in different directions: The American proposal goes in the direction of creating a basis for armed intervention in Iraq in the World Security Council. The French-German proposal, on the other hand, goes in the direction of doing everything to prevent such a military commitment. It's not about nuances, it's about whether war is prevented. I expect an Austrian foreign minister and an Austrian foreign policy to take a clear position on this question and say: Yes, we are on the side of those who want to prevent war by all means, and are therefore on the side of France and Germany in Europe. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It also raises the question of the future of world policy. It was said – I share the view of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany – that it was not possible to create the case of a political pre-intervention in Iraq, since the US is well known not only to want the disarmament of Iraq – which we all support – but also to seek a change of regime there. If you let this go on, then the question is: Where will the next time in the world will a change of regime be attempted by force, and who will decide at what time when a regime change will be achieved with what military effort? As you, Mrs Foreign Minister, said in a “profile” interview that it would break out of chaos if non-members of the Security Council were also present in the international public, I am replying to you quite frankly: I believe that chaos in world policy would break out if, in the future, on the basis of non-comprehensible facts, individual states could decide in which other states with arms force will be led to a regime change. That would actually threaten chaos in world politics! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It also raises the question of comparability. If you judge the last few days and say that there is a dispute as to whether the Iraqi missiles fly 150 or 180 kilometers, this is important in that it does not meet the requirements of the World Security Council. But I ask you a question: Iraq – without anyone in this house having any sympathy for Iraq – is mostly about suspicions that the inspectors are now investigating. There are other countries on earth in which there are dictatorships and where there is a hundred percent certainty that in these much more massive weapons of mass destruction are present than are even subject to Iraq. For me, it is already the question of comparability: Why are we going against Iraq with the vehemence we are seeing, especially from the United States, and why, for example, are we dealing with North Korea in a very different way? I believe that we must set the same standards in world policy if world policy is to be credible and, indeed, Austria can make a contribution to this as a small country.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3669	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speaking time: 5 minutes, like everyone else.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3687	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gusenbauer said: We don't want war! – Of course, I think we agree on this! We all have to do this to the entire democratic community of states in order to prevent wars wherever they threaten to break out, including in Iraq. But we have to say with the same vehemence – this weighting sometimes goes down to me in the debate – as we say that we do not want war, also clearly that we do not want regimes that violate human rights, that we do not want regimes that illegally produce and possibly apply weapons of mass destruction, also against their own people, and that we also do not want regimes that support international terrorism. [[Complaints with the liberals]] We must do everything we can to ensure that such regimes are restricted. We cannot rule out military resources from the outset, but they must only be the last means against such injustice regimes if all other political, diplomatic and economic possibilities are exhausted. It is also clear that not one State or two States alone can decide whether, when, where and how military measures can be applied to achieve these positive objectives, but that there must be a legitimacy of the representation of the States community, especially the United Nations. It is also clear that there must be clear evidence of the accusations made against a regime, against a country, now specifically against Iraq. The sole claim that there is a threat that there are weapons of mass destruction is not enough! But on the other hand, the sole claim of the regime that it has no weapons of mass destruction is not enough to prevent action. One thing has to be clear to us: It would probably be missing and dangerous, including for world peace and security, if the only proof permitted to legitimise measures against such a regime would be the confirmation of a suspicion, the execution of a terrorist act, the concrete execution of a threat, such as by weapons of mass destruction. I always ask – and this should stimulate a little thought, if you think categorically, you know what's right and what's necessary –: How would the public debate have been in the world public if the community of states had not started a military measure against the Taliban regime in Afghanistan until October, but already in April or May, because it was said that one had evidence that a terrorist act is planned? I believe that there is no absolute certainty that the pure doctrine can be represented, but there must be an equivalent of the community of states. It is also necessary to set the same standards – I am right – when it comes to implementing UN decisions and principles of the democratic community. There is a bad picture, and it is also a question of credibility when, in the case of Iraq, one sends soldiers and in the case of North Korea, food and infrastructure to move the regime to be diverted, when one insists on compliance with UN resolutions, but in the other direction, including other states in the Middle East, forgets to insist strongly on their compliance. It would also be good and important if the European Union were to show more clearly than before this political unity, not only in its statements but also in its actions. The common security and defence policy must not be just on paper. It is necessary that we show positive crisis management not only in smaller units, such as Macedonia, but also in the major crises that threaten world peace, Europe speaks with one voice, Europe with a representation of the European States, also to the United States of America, also to the world public. I believe that Austria has a clear positioning, also a clear positioning, which will help protect and safeguard our sovereignty on land and in the air, and I hope that political and diplomatic means will be sufficient to prevent war, but also to prevent a threat to weapons of mass destruction through Iraq.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3750	Mrs Lunacek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3769	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Around ten days ago, millions of people around the world have demonstrated that they have gone to the streets to say “no” to this threatening war, which would bring suffering and distress to many people, “no” to a policy of the United States government that is trying to move the UN to carry out its policies and not first to use all diplomatic and peaceful means. I am glad, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, that this morning you also stressed that these demonstrations by millions of people in Europe, in the United States of America and in many other parts of the world have helped to create a common position in the EU, in that European Union which unfortunately does not really make a single foreign policy which unfortunately has not yet managed to become closed. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Of course, it is not a question for us either that the criminal regime of Saddam Hussein must implement UN resolution 1441; no question, that must happen. The question is: Has the time run out already? and that's clearly what we're saying: No, it hasn't expired yet, ladies and gentlemen. We are here on what UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan and many others have said, the EU too in its joint statement a few days ago: The inspectors should be able to continue to operate, and there is still time for joint action to be taken within the United Nations. But what I've just missed in the last few days, my Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, you are clearly on the side of those in the European Union who represent exactly this position, namely on the side of Germany and France. You have now described your position, but you have not put yourself on this page. You have not said that you clearly support those efforts of Germany and France that are going in the direction of providing further time for the UN inspectors. I have not heard a word of criticism today about the fact that two EU countries, the United Kingdom – we already know it from the British – have introduced the draft new Security Council resolution together with the United States of America. Although in Spain, ladies and gentlemen, and also Mrs Foreign Minister – I hope that you, as I think you will speak, will express your views – 90 percent of the population are opposed to this war, the Spanish Government says: We are doing a common cause with the United States of America! This draft reads as follows: The time has expired, now free hand to strike! – No, Mrs Minister, no, Mr Federal Chancellor, no, ladies and gentlemen, this war is avoidable, this war is still to be prevented! We also need a clear positioning from the Austrian Federal Government in this direction. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I was glad, Federal Chancellor, that you mentioned that a preventive strike is not the right approach. This must be prevented! Mr Spindelegger meant that there is sometimes a cheap anti-Americanism here. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: That's right!]] To clarify: Criticism of the Bush government, which does not want to go a common path with the international community, which threatens to read – today in the press –: Everything has already been decided either by the Security Council and the UN, or we do it alone!, criticism of the policy of this Bush government, which, ladies and gentlemen, is necessary in democratic systems, in a democratically-seen world community! That is right and legitimate, and that is what it is about and not about any cheap anti-Americanism! This war, ladies and gentlemen, is avoidable, even now, and all efforts must go in this direction. I ask you, Mrs Bundesminister, Mr Bundeskanzler, and all the other ministers of this Austrian government: Make this clear, stand out clearly for the line in the European Union, which represents Germany and France! Put yourself on the side of the millions of people in the EU and in this world who say “no” to this war! Give this war a rejection, say “No” to it, and with this no to this war, mark the common foreign and security policy of Europe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3820	Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3842	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! In the Iraq question, I have been committed to my objective from the very beginning, and this is absolutely untry to allow a peaceful solution here, a peaceful solution based on UN Security Council resolution 1441, which offers us only a narrow welcome, but quite a possibility. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think Austria has taken a very independent position here on the basis of this Security Council resolution, because consider one: France and the United Kingdom are the only permanent Security Council members, and these two states have even served an exception in the CFSP, the Common Foreign and Security Policy, and that is to say they can maintain their national positions. For this reason, it is also difficult to prevent the consensus within the European Union that we have achieved at the European Council from being dissolved again and again by certain changes and interpretations. But the question is: What is important to us? – For us, it is important that the Security Council is here at the heart of – many have already said so – and I fully support Kofi Annan, who said it was very important for the Security Council to be the Master in the future too, otherwise – and I meant that in my interview in the “profile” – chaos would break out in the international community. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] To the second resolution I have referred to as desirable, I have said: At the end of a process – for of course we have now entered into a negotiation process, in which the French, but also the Germans, who are not a permanent member, will take their position, just like the United States, the United Kingdom and Spain, – I hope and expect that there will be a Security Council resolution that corresponds to what the weapons inspectors want, and they want to do just that. have a certain time. But I think it's too early to speak up here if you're not yourself in the Security Council at the moment. That's what I meant! But what have we, ladies and gentlemen, and what have I done myself? From the very beginning, I have supported the Greek Presidency in bringing about this minimal opportunity of a peaceful solution. That is why I made my Maghreb trip to Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria, in countries where the Greek chairman himself could not go. What was the essence of this mission? – The essential thing was to try to bring both the Arabs and the Europeans to a common position, because it already has a different weight when you say Saddam Hussein from the Arab side: You now have to fulfill all these things that are set out in the Security Council resolutions! You, Saddam, have it in your hand to keep your people from a war! That is, ladies and gentlemen, the background of this – I admit – minimum chance, but I believe that you have to take advantage of this opportunity until the last minute. That is why Mr Papandreou, the Greek President of the Council, went to the meeting of the Foreign Minister of the Arab League, was present at our last meeting, and that is why there will be an Arab summit, where there is quite the possibility – and that is to say, that an Arab delegation, at the last stage, while negotiating the Security Council resolution, will go to Baghdad, pointing out Saddam's own responsibility for his people, but also for the Arab countries. I think, Mr Gusenbauer, that Europe will be affected, I give you the right, but much more will, of course, affect the entire Middle East region. Of course, all Arabs know that, and that is why they are trying to reach a solution together with us. I also say that it is right – and this was, of course, discussed – when it is said that we should not treat the Middle East, especially with regard to the Palestinian conflict – Israel, but also the North Korean crisis. That is why it was important, for example, that we have joined forces in our EU declaration, which is why it was important for Bush to be talked to from all sides. It must move forward in the Middle East, and it must finally come to the implementation of the road map, the road sketch, – first of all, of course, it must be published once – which we have thought of together in the quartet. This, ladies and gentlemen, also means pursuing a common line, a line which can still bring peace to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3909	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mr Donabauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3930	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In a world-wide extremely difficult situation, there is a principle debate on the Iraq conflict today and here in our Parliament. On the one hand, people are deeply concerned, on the other hand, politicians sincerely strive for solutions. No one knows the true effects of a possible Iraq war that they would at least be dramatic. But what everyone knows, that is the fact that war cannot solve problems and no conflicts, but it increases them rather, and therefore, of course, all means must be offered to avoid this danger. Because today our federal government has been addressed several times, I can say: I believe that it can be very clearly documented that this government has acted in a timely manner, has held deliberations and made decisions to seek a peaceful solution to this conflict, which poses a major threat, not least by convening the National Security Council on 29 October. January, where a decision was taken at the end of the day. The cause of this conflict is essentially that a dictator pursues his interests recklessly, that he has weapons of mass destruction and missiles, and – on top of that – that he has failed to comply with his disarmament obligation, which he has had for 12 years. If, today, well-known Austrian parliamentarians say that the government has done too little to reach a peaceful solution to this conflict, then this must be rejected decisively. Both the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister are not only pursuing this conflict with deep concern, but are actively trying to act in a European fashion to counter this threat. Of course, this similarity is very difficult to achieve if one has to take note of the fact that well-known governments – and I am very impressed – are going a completely different way in this conflict, such as that of British Prime Minister Tony Blair, who is clearly on the side of America. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Aznar too! Aznar too!]] I think that it will also be the task of the Socialist International to contribute accordingly. It is too little if we practice rhetorical criticism here – we have to intervene with words and deeds. It is about maintaining peace and protecting oneself. From this point of view, of course, the decision of the Federal Government to prohibit transport of troops via Austria and, of course, through Austria is also to be appreciated. This shows very clearly that we have not only claimed today's neutrality status, but also exercise the international sovereignty from which every country can decide on the use of its territory itself and freely, no, much more, has to decide freely. I was very concerned personally when the American Foreign Minister Rumsfeld incomprehensiblely criticized Austria's attitude and accused us of a blockade. I personally think that this statement by a foreign minister of a supposed peacekeeping power is extremely inappropriate. Instead, I would like to appreciate the commitment of our Mrs Foreign Minister, who has already tried a year ago to ensure that the weapons inspectors can actually be used and to start their work, which has recently been successful in integrating the Arab States into this process of advice and peacekeeping. I think this is not only politically, but also emotionally very important, because I believe that if you involve these states in this process, you can move much more in this whole development. The decision was, I believe, right, and it has also been very clear today from both statements, both from that of the Federal Chancellor and from that of the foreign minister, that the debate must now be held in the Security Council. There must be decided! In any case, everything must be done so that we can find, at the end of the day, a peaceful and happy outcome. This crisis situation, which we have, is also a clear message for me to Europe, because it shows that the common foreign and security policy must finally be perceived and implemented, that Europe must not only demonstrate its strength, but also document its economic power and actively participate in world policy, including peacekeeping – and not least in the interests of people all over the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3972	As the next Member of Parliament, Dr. Einsahl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the Environment, Public - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3991	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, allow me to say to Mr Donabauer: Mr Rumsfeld is not the U.S. Foreign Minister, but the US Minister of Defence, who has had the problem – but does not do anything. . Let me focus on the European dimension of the question we are discussing today. Ladies and gentlemen! I fully understand the particular situation of the USA, which was first attacked from outside in September 2001 after its perception. This nation, the most powerful in this world, has never happened. That is why this nation reacts differently. This is understandable, but this is not yet a reason why we Europeans, who have had other experiences, are necessarily putting ourselves on their side. I therefore have no understanding of the unfailing support of the United States in the war orientation of the current US administration. We are Austrians, we are Europeans, and we must therefore pursue an Austrian and a European policy. But this is another policy, at least one in certain aspects different from that of the USA. What we therefore criticize, in order to make it clear, is the fact that Austria, that the foreign minister in particular has no position on this issue and has, last but not least, tried to put public statements on the US side as quickly as possible. That's what we're criticising! Mrs. Federal Minister! What we need is a dedicated European policy, and we believe that in this context, especially the small and medium-sized countries can have a very special role. It is much easier for the small and medium-sized countries to give up the claim to make world policy as an individual state. It is much more difficult for countries such as the United Kingdom, France or Germany to take up such a position in the European foreign and security policy community and to include individual national policies. What it needs is the commitment of the small and medium-sized countries in Europe, which can contribute to a European position that serves the purpose of pursuing a common European and non-primary transatlantic foreign and security policy. High house! We agree with Mr Spindelegger that we are actively in favour of a common, even more, common approach. Foreign and security policy, ultimately up to a common European defence, and this also requires the commitment of the small and medium-sized countries in Europe, because it is difficult for the great to go this way. There we need our commitment. That's good, that's important, but that's not enough. We recognise, as I say, not only the efforts of the EU's Greek Presidency to reach a common European position, but also the efforts of the Greek Presidency to do anything possible to avoid military conflict in the Middle East. In this context, we also recognise that Mrs Federal Minister - and this is also to be acknowledged - you have made yourself available to support the Greek Presidency on this issue and to conduct the talks with the Maghreb States. But while we remain, it is that we are missing a clear European position, including with you, a position that is currently primarily represented by Germany and France – so we are sorry or perhaps you are, because these are large states, but these are those who are trying to form a European core. I hereby appeal You, as you are, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mrs Bundesminister, who has taken action to ensure that, at the European core, we jointly develop and participate in our European policy. But then we must also have a clear position on this question. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Chancellor! What we want is a policy that is in line with the wish for peace of people in Austria, which corresponds to the desire for peace in Europe and the world, and we want a European peace policy that is in line with the historical development of the European Union. For this, we want you to have a clear orientation and a clear position in the name of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4067	I now come to the floor, Mr Dr. Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4085	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The fight against terrorism and terrorism, I believe, is a matter of course and is undisputed. We therefore have in the High House after the 11th. The decision was taken on 1 September. But the fight against terror cannot mean war, and above all it cannot mean an air war against civilian targets and against residential areas in another country. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, your accusations against this federal government are not sustainable either. On the one hand, you accuse the Federal Government of putting it on the side of the United States. The opposite is the case: Austria has had an independent position in this case of conflict, and this has been said loud and clear. On the other hand, you also criticize the fact that Austria did not stand by France and Germany. Even here, I believe, this government has taken the right step, for the European Union has been a bankruptcy in this case, which we are now experiencing – as it has been said in the press. I support this assessment. The European Union has not been able to find a common line in this regard. What happened? – Two larger countries have joined forces and have developed an independent position without being patient and waiting for all the other Member States of the Union to be able to position themselves to do so. – Mr Eine! They have also experienced this in the Convention with the proposal of France and Germany in relation to the dual presidency. If two get together in one Union, then this is the distrust of the others. And this is the accusation to France and Germany that they represent their interests and not the interests of the European Union. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it must be important for the European Union, in the context of its renewal of the Constitution, to introduce mechanisms which enable it to take action against such situations. It may not be that only two countries or several countries form alliances and refer to positions. This would be a setback in the European Alliance policy of 19 and 20 years. The European Union's development in the early 20th century, and this cannot be the development of the European Union. These new mechanisms will be the task of the Convention, and I hope that we will decide where mechanisms will be accepted by the Heads of Government. Until then, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that a medium-sized country such as Austria, in particular, strive to maintain its independent foreign policy and its independent military defence. The objective must be not only to enable the Union to adopt foreign policy measures within the framework of a new constitution, but also, in parallel, to create sovereign foreign policy and defence. And for that, ladies and gentlemen, this Federal Government is a guarantee.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4140	Mr Pilz, the last speaker to speak, is Mr. Dr. Pilz. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4158	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The march is complete; the troops are stationed around the Iraqi target areas. A single question has, strangely, remained unanswered to this day: Why do the US want to wage a war against Iraq and the regime of Saddam Hussein at every political and military price in the world? – It says: It is because of the weapons of mass destruction. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who work on it know that this is, in general, a dizziness. It was the US that forced the Conference of Chemical Weapons to stop the investigations in Iraq. It was the US that boycotted the Bioweapons Conference and made it unfit for work. And when it comes to doing something about weapons of mass destruction through international agreements, you always have the same list of states that refuse to cooperate: Libya, Iraq, Iran and the USA. The second argument is: We have to overthrow the regime of Saddam Hussein. – Now I do not even address the question of what this means for the world if any great power that is able to do so in military terms can say that today and tomorrow we intend to overthrow this or that regime for the following reasons, but only point to one: With the International Criminal Court, which has a massive support of the European Union, there is finally an instrument to deal with potentials and dictators such as Saddam Hussein's rule of law and, if necessary, if the Court of Justice condemns to enforce these judgments on the World Security Council by military means. The US says: No, that's not our way; we don't recognize the criminal court; we're the world court, and we're the world police. No one can talk to us! We determine where war is waged, and we determine with whom and with what goals. So there's only one point and only one answer: The US wants to wage war in Iraq with the same ideas and with the same motives that they are preparing wars against Iran, against Sudan and possibly against other states. This is about oil, it's about economic interests, it's about interests of global domination, and it's about the interests of a superpower that says nothing binds us, nothing stands over us, everyone has to focus on us. President Bush himself said: Whoever is not for us is against us! – And this not only contradicts the European legal culture, not just the spirit of the United Nations, but everything that rightly begins to call itself the world community today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How is it going to go on now? – War in Iraq, perhaps with Great Britain and the last ones that still go along? What about Iran, where progress and preparations are already under way? What about Sudan, where the military stations in Djibouti and Kenya are already official and the preparations for war? Is that what's going on? Or is there someone with political weight who is putting the US in the way? That is exactly what Europe is playing. It is now about the European Union coming together and saying: Yes, we want another way; yes, on this question the US is not our partners, but world-politically simple and simply our political opponents. This is a question of establishing a security community that can also be politically in place for the US. This is about mobilising, so that a policy that does not hold the rule of law in the world is isolated and weakened. This is about saying that Europe has a different future of security policy. The future of Europe's security policy is not in a military block led by the United States, but the future of Europe's security policy lies in a security community – a security community instead of NATO. We need a Europe without American troops and a Europe that shows that there is a global path to rule of law and democracy. I am not least concerned that a Europe that can enforce these positions in the United Nations can make a much greater contribution to stability in the Middle East and also to the overthrow of regimes such as that of Saddam Hussein than the US can do through a number of world wars. That is why I also appeal to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and to the Foreign Minister: Do not participate somewhere, do not be half-American and half-European, but join in the lead of European development, which not only needs Europe but also the whole world urgently. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4243	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4265	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4473	I say that the First Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been duplicated and distributed to all Members. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4494	Mr Cap, ladies and gentlemen, asked for urgent consideration of the written question by Mrs Cap, colleagues to Mr Bundeskanzler on the unnecessary burden on Austrians by expensive fighter aircraft, which was put into the agenda before the entry into force of the agenda. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response 10/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4519	I would also like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on Question Time 10/AB of Question No 13/J by Mr Öllinger, Mr Colleagues on GATS negotiations – public information – on the content of the demand lists by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. We are now going into the agenda, ladies and gentlemen. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4546	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. A day block time of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP 133, SPÖ 119, Free and Green per 84 minutes. That's what the Hoge Haus decides. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. 1. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 34/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988, the Sales Tax Act 1994 and the Inheritance and Donation Tax Act 1955 (16 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4588	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Matznetter spoke. He wants to speak for 8 minutes. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4615	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Young speakers have the advantage of giving the young Members the opportunity to say something about the basics, apart from a certain degree of restraint in the calls for call. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to point out that the matter to be treated today, 16 of the supplements, is the amendment of a law which this House has decided in the last hours of the last GP in a hush-fush procedure. In the Committee on Budgets on the protection of pensions, we have discussed in principle whether the public debate on the first pillar of pension provision in our country is a discussion in which we are talking about whether each individual can still rely on his or her benefits in the past. In this fundamental debate, we discussed the question of whether this is the right time to make public funds more liquid for the funding of the third pillar. On this occasion, I pointed out that Austria is a country – I am referring to the Court of Auditors’ income report – where the average net income of a self-employed person in 2001 was €15 420. I have allowed this net income to be calculated accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we deduct not less than €425 per month from someone who earns €1 510.43 gross per month. At the same time, however, a system is being created in which a service provider receives a tax premium for the saving of shares, for which full use must be made of its savings volume in the year 1 800 €. Mr. Dr. Stummvoll asked me if, in view of their disapproval to this point, the SPÖ was moved from the confession that the standard of living had to be maintained on the evening of life. I have already clearly denied the question in the Committee on Budgets. That's not the point. The question is: Can we afford it? We have a budgetary situation where we can pay up to €200 million in premium in this system, while at the same time saving € 640 million in the first pillar until 2006 – starting with 1. 1. 2004 – to be expected from the new government to abolish early pensions by 2009? At the same time, one third of the volume that the Minister of Finance, now in office, wants to save in 2006, is used as a promotion for a product of which we ourselves are not convinced insofar as we already have to make an adjustment of the current percentage of a minimum share of 60 percent to 40 percent. My group has therefore requested a separate vote on the request. Just like we did on the 20th. In September, my group will not vote in favour of this amendment to Article I. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I come to the other points of the request. We agree with Article II of the proposal. We welcome all the steps that lead to red tape in relation to the VAT law. We support the possibility within the limits of the Sixth Directive to preserve, as far as possible, the tax revenue for the tax-believer Republic of Austria. We support the Ministry of Finance's efforts to prevent tax outflows due to constructions over foreign leasing. I therefore come to the third point of the request. This area also gives me the opportunity to lose some basic words on budgetary and fiscal policy. We have an amendment to Article III, the basis of which is the second postponement of the imposition of the tax obligation on gifts of savings books. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you that the freedom of taxation of the gift of savings books is a measure to facilitate the transition from the anonymous transfer of savings books. This was the first book to be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities and published in the Official We were all aware that in Austria we have partly unclear ownership of savings books in the context of anonymity. For the longer term, savings books dedicated to the Enkerl may have remained with her, and at this stage – which was also supported by the Social Democrats – the aim was to facilitate the transition so that the population is able to legitimise the savings books without any tax burden. ==References====External links== ==References== It was extended once until the end of the year, and now we are facing a further extension. One thing has to be clear: We are breaking through the system in this area. It makes a difference in taxation whether or not the grandma gets into the wallet and gives the anchor the money, or whether it is so wise to run to the bank in the morning, open a savings book and pass on this savings book. This is not an objectively justified distinction, and it cannot become a permanent right. The Secretary of State has carried out in the Budget Committee that the inheritance and gift tax is a bagatell tax. – Ladies and gentlemen! We are in times of most difficult consolidation needs – due to the inaction of the last government in many areas, due to the financial policy that is only based on superficialness. There is a total need for consolidation of around €16 billion in the legislative period. Under the inclusion of the tax reform in 2005 alone, €8 billion will be needed for consolidation in 2006. We have tax types, ladies and gentlemen, in which there is no need, where taxation does not affect something that comes from our own working life, but at present we have almost no income in this area. We must therefore consider new principles in this area as regards tax reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We will have to proceed in this area after the benchmark: What does normality look like in Europe, in OECD? – We will have to try to get more money in this area in order to achieve a reduction for those people who are burdened with €400 per month, because these people create demand! These are the people for whom every euro is important in order to be able to make their daily existence longer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not about those who sit with the tax advisor and look for an optimal model of how they achieve a transfer of assets in the event of inheritance, so that no tax applies as far as possible. That can't be our first-ever protective client! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to make a final comment, which will also lead me back to the discussions in the Committee on Budgets. Mr Finz has stated that the difficulty lies also in the fact that, in the case of taxation, the cost of persecuting possible tax evasions and the introduction of the taxes themselves in relation to possible success is often too high. – But a confession must also be clear in this house: Only because I can't prosecute the perpetrator or because it's expensive to pursue him can I not make tax evasion or reduction a cavalier's crime, especially if the funds are scarce anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4728	Mr Dkfm. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Dr. It's stupid. He too speaks for 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4746	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If we decide today on this small tax package, this is a small package, but it contains three very important priorities. My previous speaker has already referred to the first priority. The first priority is that we want to make substantial improvements in pension provision in the context of the Income Tax Act in view of the first practical experience. These are loud suggestions made from practice to the legislator, namely: firstly, the reduction of the share share from 60 to 40 percent, second, a clarification of the product catalogue, thirdly, the change in the post-taxation obligation, not 6 percent of the capital, but 25 percent of the income, and finally, we abolish the time-limit at the end of 2004 for the premium payments for pension funds in order to have an indefinite period. Secondly, we have put in place important measures in the area of VAT law. It would have threatened to disadvantage the economic location of Austria by European law on passenger car leasing. We ensure that there is a tax equal treatment by the end of 2005, regardless of whether this passenger car leasing is carried out abroad or abroad. We will also take a step towards further modernisation of the financial system insofar as it will be possible to deliver electronic VAT pre-registrations in the future. Finally, it is about the issue of inheritance or gift tax liability for savings books. Mr Matznetter has set the example – I always say, of course, everyone has his examples that fit into the line of reasoning – which makes a difference whether to give a savings book or cash. – I can just as well ask the question: Do I have to die first so that I can transfer a savings book tax-free, or can I do it as a living person? So everyone has their examples, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say briefly, as Mr Matznetter, both in committee and here, has also addressed the subject of pension provision, pension provision, pension insurance, which I am pleased with, a few words. There is no question, Mr Matznetter, that our positions in this area differ. You differ by the fact that you are obviously still highly devoted to the philosophy I know from the 1970s, when the then Minister of Social Affairs Weißenberg literally explained: State provision must be sufficient to ensure that the individual does not have to make any provision for risk protection. This is the thesis of the zero-property care. He was then – then already! – in opposition to the then vice-channer Androsch, who preached his “three Es”: Self-initiative, self-reliance, self-care. – I admit that the SPÖ’s position in this regard is not uniform, but it seems to weigh that one says: We really want the state to secure everything, you don't need to take care of anything, we don't need a second and third pillar, or we don't have money for it, or we don't want money for it, Mr. Matznetter. Let me say something about this: We represent a different position. We say: We must demand our own responsibility, our own initiative, our own self-sufficiency, we want the self-responsible person – whether it concerns old age or health. We have approved of philosophy: The state takes care of everything. – I believe that the state is no longer able to fulfill this promise, I find that if I look, for example, at the prospects for the next few years in the state budget. Mr Matznetter, we have already discussed this in committee: Is it really only the responsibility of the legislator, the tax legislator, to look at it – the importance is undisputed! – that the beneficiaries of the smallest income have a corresponding pension provision? – No question, that is an important task! We say, however, that it is also the responsibility of the legislator and the state to look in tax policy at the fact that the middle class and the service providers in a society – I emphasize: also the service providers in a society! – receive incentives to do something in the direction of the third pillar. Let me say one thing very clearly, ladies and gentlemen: I always hear: The rich have to see for themselves that they come to something. – There are population groups – ladies and gentlemen, we should not forget that! – in which the pension insurance contribution accounts for almost one quarter of gross income, and from the rest they pay once again 50 percent of the taxes. When you say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, These are people who contribute incredibly much to solidarity compared to those 1.5 million taxpayers who don't pay taxes at all, but that's not our topic, we're just taking care of the beneficiaries of very small incomes!, then I have to say: Here our positions differ, Mr Matznetter. We are in favour of providing incentives to those who have to do more than they do, and of whom our society, our economy, is very likely to provide incentives, in addition to the state pension, to do something for its own provision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] – Here we have different positions, that is no question at all. I am glad that you, Mr Matznetter, allow us to deposit these different social and regulatory positions accordingly. I have a little the impression – and this should not be a polemic now – that your philosophy takes place according to the motto: Forward, comrades, back to the past! – It is philosophy, the state provides for everything, the individual needs to take care of nothing, or we do not have the courage to say: Yes, even for those who are the foundation and service providers of our civil society, appropriate incentives should be offered. I always ask: What does civil society mean? - That's a sprinkling expression. It's very simple, though. Citizens' society means that there are people in this country who need to do more than they do, and of them lives our society, of which our economy, Mr Matznetter, lives. I don't think I'm just punishing or excluding these people. We both have a different sense of justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have already said in committee: Mr Matznetter is new to the Committee on Budgets, he will be new to the Financial Committee, but I can already say today that he is an enrichment for these committees. Although the meetings will take a lot longer in the future because they are by far the most common to speak, it is always very funny for that. In this sense: good cooperation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4846	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Kogler. He too wants to speak for 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4864	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to address two aspects: The first aspect is the question of the tax structure in Austria. Not only in the Committee, but also in the public, has individual representatives of the ÖVP ventilated, it is dealing with the inheritance and gift tax for a bagatoll tax. The second is the question of the future design of our pension systems. First of all: It may be a bagatelle in terms of revenue, whether this deadline, which we are now extending – or not – for a further year, is being carried. In my opinion, we are now no longer discussing this, and there is greater agreement on it. One should rather consider why – Mr Matznetter has mentioned it – in times of budget consolidation, in times of intense debate on the tax structure itself, in times when it is always about international benchmarking, in Austria the inheritance and gift tax must at all be a bagatell tax, because on this basis one can soon say: Let's give her away because she doesn't do anything anymore. That's the question! Let us take a look at OECD tax statistics. See – I have the figures up to 2000; this is not a party-political debate, because as the old governments were composed, it may be assumed – that the share of total tax revenue from the title inheritance and gift tax is 0.14 percent in Austria, 0.41 percent in Germany – three times as high –, 1.20 percent in France – much higher – and much higher in Switzerland, 1.13 percent in Switzerland. I don't want to talk about the US, there's this value even higher, but you have to recognise that there is a different tax system in total there. But there are comparable countries, and there is a much higher income, so that the question is reversed, Mr State Secretary – from you, among other things, this quote –: Why is the inheritance and gift tax in Austria actually a bagatelle? Now, if we want to consolidate and consider how we can reform the tax structure so that we can actually talk about a tax reform – and not a reduction over all the tariffs and bases that are now available – then we will have to ask this question. It's that simple. I mean, it doesn't have to stay at 0.14 percent. There is no reason, however, to change the matter completely overnight. Only one thing has to be clear: If we talk about OECD comparisons with all possible other taxes, it must also be possible here. I thought it was useful! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In addition to this, the tax structure we have in the Austrian tax revenue, which is certainly not the most serious, will be seen only if we look at the current quantities, as far as wealth tax is concerned, that is quite clear – in other places, we need to look at them again. In the OECD comparison, we have far too high a burden – that is, tax and expenditure – of the so-called labour costs. The ecological dimension is relatively small. What follows is to be said as a well-known requirement, so there are the Green proposals in this area. If we were to make a tax reduction, always under the dictatorship – I say quite consciously – of a relatively consolidated budget path, then a solidarity component would also have to be strongly pronounced, i.e., according to my understanding, the reduction of the tax burden on medium and lower incomes would be disproportionate. We need a R & D-promoting, i.e. a research and development-promoting tax incentive system. This is not so easy to find, I admit it, but there will be consensus. Finally, as far as the location is concerned, we need investment-stimulating elements. There too, I believe, consensus can be reached. On this point, I should like to make a bold reference to the contribution made by my colleague, who has suggested that, on the basis of the various negotiation and investigation procedures of the last few weeks, at least more mutual understanding has established itself, and I can express this at this point. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] I therefore see a number of common objectives as regards a genuine tax reform. However, I do not yet see a joint set of measures. The debate over the next few weeks will hopefully bring to the public what group has to put forward what ideas. It is much more exciting, I believe, to approach and not to approach the various political groups in the House with regard to the future classification of pensions. Let us ask ourselves together why everything in the field of pension insurance is to be so “apocalyptic” in the future. This question will be put politically and rhetorically massively into space. If we are going to have a real growth of at least 1 percent per year in the coming years or possibly even in the next few decades, more to the 2%, and at the same time the population remains relatively constant, I see little reason for apocalyptic visions. The question, which actually results from it, is, in fact, a redistribution question, first of all one between the generations, but anyway, I say simplified, between the poor and the rich. These are the relevant questions that need to be asked if you want to answer which system components the future pension systems are to have. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This raises further questions: What is the state to do? Is he supposed to withdraw completely? Whether it should promote a particular element in particular, or should it promote or support another element? The fact that the State currently supports certain systems and grants from the tax benefit to the first pillar is known. I can say at this point that it is not the case for the Greens that this can continue without ceiling. On the contrary: We are aware that the budget grant for pension protection must find its limit – in our opinion, it has already reached that limit. That is why, in several discussions, we agreed on the need to slow down the increase in expenditure in the short-term measures. This results from this knowledge. The real question, however, is what pension systems should look like in 30 years' time, and the decisions to do so fall today. Again: The question is: What is the state to benefit from, and what is it not to favour? In the amendment provided for here, a correction is made in a small part, by the way, a measure that will allow this system to work at all once, because the first template in this respect was so puddled that it could not possibly take effect. This is a small correction, but the basic intensification of this matter of law goes in the direction that the so-called private pillar should be favoured. One can be of different opinion, Mr President. I know your argument, and I can understand it now. It's about you that no one in old age falls under the standard of living he's acquired before. I can understand that this has something for itself because perhaps social cohesion is at risk when larger parts of the population, especially those of middle income levels, no longer see their acquired standard of living in the first pillar in the form of the first pillar. But I'm asking you: Is it really the task of the state to support private pillars? Or is it the task of the State to first ensure that there is a minimum guarantee for all, a foundation that also benefits those in the middle income classes? [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: This is not a question “either-or”, but “both as well”! Both!]] In the result, the only difference is that – you just have to put it on the table – it leads to other results via the redistribution components. I don't want to hide it at all, it follows from the plumbing arithmetic. That is the difference of access, and I have said what the Greens are for. You have something else in mind. But then you and we have to put that on the table and see if there can be a compromise somewhere. I think a compromise will be very difficult to find. In the short-term measures it is even more possible, but the long-term classification must, in our view, be aimed at maintaining the charging process, so that everyone can live on it and not be pushed down or referred to as a priority in the private pillar, because the first pillar is to be demolded. That's the fundamental difference! This should take us even longer to deal with. – Time is not enough now, I've already crossed. Finally, I would like to say that, given the idea that women's pensions should be reduced by up to 20, 30 per cent in 20, 30 years after your models, apart from a likely no one can understand why at the same time the most expensive interception hunters, which can be bought at all, should be financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4945	Mr Wittauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's I'd like to set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4963	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The task of anonymity, which has been introduced through a European regulation, is hard for the savings account holders. We've been fighting it for a long time. Of course, it is true that the transitional arrangements that have been created make sense. If I hear from Mr Matznetter that these are rich and capable people, I have to say that the people who have saved 20 or 30 or 40 years are small savers. Most savers – we have a high savings culture in our country – will be “thank you” if you say so so salopp. I'm for the savers, and I think they should be supported. With certain provisions contained in this law, I believe that it will not affect those who are capable. Ladies and gentlemen! This decision for the savers is not easy. Is it for yourself, for the others, is it for the next generation, is it for the spouse? – For this to happen, it takes transitional arrangements so that every time has to think about it. We are in a break – even at the pensions. I think it's important that this time is given. The transitional arrangements before it were too short. With the cover of € 100 000 for Tax Class V, it is ensured that persons falling into this tax class are not affected. It would be unfair to punish people who save a lot of their mouths and not give them the opportunity to prepare a gift or invest in a provision. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why this request is very welcome. One year extension means 1.3 per millimate share of total revenue. You can easily give up on this bagatell tax. Mr Kogler, the tax failure you have just mentioned is really to be relativized. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] I cannot imagine that the Greens are willing to punish the small saver or especially the older people, in whom the Savings Book has a meaning and not only is an old age pension, but also has provided stability and security throughout their lives. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a country in which the Savings Book has an extremely high priority. By adapting to European law, as you know, people have been given the opportunity to anonymity. Let us not allow the one who saves to pay for it! These people will not understand if the Greens and the Social Democrats do not agree to this bill. I am a member of the Liberals and all my colleagues. The Commission will be pleased to agree to this proposal. I ask you to do the same!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5023	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Trunk. I wish you had 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5042	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would particularly like to welcome the scarcely existing share of the current Federal Government and the German Chancellor, who is very often absent or silent. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to welcome a federal government, known as the 8. In September of the previous year, following the turbulences within the FPÖ, it has resigned loud. I would like to welcome parts of a federal government with a German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, who will subsequently be responsible for new elections with a huge amount of tax revenue and will also be responsible for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to welcome a federal government, which will probably be praised in full in the same human composition next week – for which you don't have to question eyes. [[Abg. Amon: I don't believe that! I don't think that after the election the composition will be the same!]] – Your faith remains and is free from you. If you want to surprise us with another federal government that is socially democratic and international, it should welcome us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This personal political greeting of this old and coming Federal Government has to do with the law matter now in place. It's about pension provision. In the last six months, this Federal Government has actually managed to do something for itself: to secure first expectations, to extend monthly subscriptions, to operate for itself, and to pursue power policy, instead of taking on opportunities, as in this law, to take up real and important reforms and to make reforms in law matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At first glance, it sounds very sympathetic to you to suggest that in the field of private pension provision, there is a level playing field between former-like communities and spouses. At first glance, that sounds good. At first listening it also sounds very good when it comes to reducing the share ratio from 60 to 40 percent. But in fact – you know that – it's about pure macularity. Every Austrian student today learns in practical education that in 2002 the American pension fund paid by 30 percent less. Every student in the Republic of Austria knows that. The members of this Federal Government obviously do not know. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, Mr President, by praising fellow Members Dr. Matznetter, Mr Stumpfully documented a need for harmony which I cannot share. In the press release after the budget committee last week, he spoke about an attractive model of future security. – Mr President, I would like to thank you for your support. He is knowingly or unwittingly refusing to be a reality, because especially colleague Stumblingly as Lower Austrian MPs must know that last year the country of Lower Austria lost € 210 million in the stock market, in order not to say, has speculated. I have too much respect for Mr Colleagues in order to simply explain to him that the matter is not interested in him because he already has an ad personam claim of two or three public pensions: as State Secretary, Deputy and Secretary General of the Federal Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: This is the lowest level!]] I do not think so, but I also ask the ÖVP to take note that today 500 employees of the ORF and employees of the savings bank sector are complaining to their former employers because they already have to buy a 20% reduction in their pension. This can also be read in the complaints. Ladies and gentlemen, especially the ÖVP! The Horst Friedrich Mayer, who is not unknown to you, is a veritable crown and contemporary witness who will inform you about this matter. Today, it is about the fact that 350 000 people in Austria have already responded to this provision and are faced with pension cuts today. That is why I ask you whether it would not be successful and intelligent, as Mr Matznetter and Mr Kogler carried out earlier, to think about actually securing state pensions for the future. The SPÖ has not only provided a reform concept for the exploratory discussions, but it is still available to you – even if we are the opposition party. The ÖVP does not even ignore it, as does the Federal Chancellor. He wants to replace the early pensions. I find this quite inventive. We should be able to assume that we have learned from experience that it is not social and fair that we support risk-playing pension schemes by means of tax resources, but that we should better ensure public pension provision also for young people. However, this is not the case in the ÖVP, according to the comments made by my colleague, in any case. We Socialists and Social Democrats have learned from these experiences. We do not stand for concepts that increase injustice, because, unlike some in the ÖVP – not to all, for example, the Catholic family association, the Caritas and the like – counts among us every human being and not just the one who can afford to be speculated on the capital market. – Thank you for the shared attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5137	Mrs Lentsch is now on the floor. I'd like to set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5155	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Stunk! You've been horribly excited because our Federal Chancellor isn't on the... – Good, Stunk! [[Call the SPÖ:Trunk! Trunk!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Trunk!]] She's new, so she doesn't know the facts, and we don't know her name yet. [[Abg. Binder: But you will be able to read, will you? But you'll be able to read, won't you?]] She's been mad at murder because our Federal Chancellor isn't sitting on the government bank. The topic belongs to the Office of the Ministry of Finance, which is why the State Secretary is sitting on the Government Bank. [[Abg. Jacob Auer: She doesn't know that yet!]] – She does not know yet, and in the meantime our Federal Chancellor has also arrived. I'm just wondering where Gusenbauer is. The SPÖ is once again without conduct, and it should have been present at its speech. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian People's Party and the Austrian Freedom Party have jointly submitted a request to amend certain tax laws, thus proving two things: on the one hand, that we can continue to work well with the Freedom Party, and on the other hand, that we still have to do a lot to modernise our tax system. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Mrs Colleagues! And then why did we choose?]] With this proposal we are at least building... – Now I am speaking, I am speaking, and you can then report. [[Abg. Gradwell: Why was the choice necessary?]] [[Abg. Gradwell: What have we chosen to do? Please answer this question.]] – Look into the hall, then you know why we chose. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gradwell: Why didn't you keep working?]] In any event, in this proposal we are expanding private pension provision as a third stage, because on the one hand, the precautionary products are made even more attractive by reducing the share ratio from 60 to 40 percent, and on the other hand, not only spouses and children will benefit from private pension provision in the future. Rather, all those who have lived or lived together without a marriage permit will also have the same claims as married persons. These measures are very fair and also very useful, as I believe, and certainly provide an even greater incentive for all our citizens. However, the second pillar, i.e. the occupational precautions, should not be neglected or necessarily maintained. However, I am sure that the opposition parties – both the Greens and the SPÖ – will not again honour this equality of marriage and living communities. We will continue to be accused of discrimination against non-married people. The reality is another, as one can easily see here and today. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We will still have to turn on individual screws and attitudes on this issue, but I am sure that we will also make private provision more perfect step by step, because one thing is clear, without a private pillar it will soon become more difficult for many pensioners to keep their usual standard of living. The fact that the changing stock prices do not make us particularly easy at the moment must not irritate us, because the way is clear, namely to provide private pensions, and the goal is also clear, namely to be less dependent on politics or state at age. This will significantly increase the security of all citizens. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a word to change the gift tax. I am of course pleased for all the savings account owners that they can now pay their savings books tax-free by the end of 2003. Many children or many grandchildren will be happy about this. But I would also like to have long-term guarantees in this area, because often it is really about the savings of a whole human life. Dear ladies and gentlemen! People should not be afraid of changes from year to year. Longer-term regulations would be quite appropriate and useful here.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5296	Mr Oellinger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5315	Mr President. Good day, Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today the repair of a law, which at the time was called very euphemistic “future provision”, which was introduced at the last meeting of the old National Council and which we said at the time: You will still have your difficulties with the requirements you have made in this future provision as a legislator. But it is not about reducing the minimum coverage from 60 to 40 percent by shares. That is the one point, and we have already expressed criticism of it at the time. The other and essential point is where you want to take care of our age, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the Austrian People's Party. Where to go the trip? – For example, I only take the “profile” from December 2002, in which a headline reads: “Pension with risk – future provision, price cuts, empty cash registers and a persistent stock exchange baisse – precautionary models with share shares are more risky than ever.” I can also bring you quotations across the world. For example, in the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” of the 16th century. In January 2003 it was said: “A time bomb is ticking at US-Pensionskassen. Unrealistic assessment of the level of coverage.” – What the impact for the companies is currently having, you can read in a corresponding article. ==References====External links== In November 2002, the Netherlands, which has largely changed its pension scheme to the capital scheme, writes: "Employers and workers must bleed. A drastic increase in their pension payments threatens the Dutch.” The “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” (New Zurich Newspaper) of 28. 1. 2003 writes about the UK: ‘The crisis of occupational pensions in Great Britain, shortfalls due to stock exchanges’. ==References====External links== In February 2003 it was said: “Agricultural care is increasingly eating the profits of global peaks. The deficits in the pension funds of European companies have tripled within one year.” ==References====External links== 2. This year: “Pension cassers” – and now the Austrians are meant – “at the latest 2004 in Bredouille”. Ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean? And you commend this so-called future provision as the future of pensions?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? Is it really useful if we consider what we consider to be the private risk of each individual, and if we consider it quite sensible, beyond a guarantee of existence, if we are to promote what the private desire may be to anyone who has the money for it from state resources? Or should we not rather check our state pensions and focus on ensuring that they actually guarantee a living? [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Both as well!]] – Not both, Mr Spindelegger! You know just as well as I do that state pensions for many people in this country do not provide sufficient security of living. Ladies and gentlemen! It does not help me if my colleague boldly calls for the principle of safeguarding the standard of living to the example of his own person. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] When it comes to salaries and the incomes of politicians – we have experienced this in the negotiations with the ÖVP – then the ÖVP will become very sensitive, then it will be difficult to talk to you about the fact that not all that was common in the past should be rewritten for the future. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Did you have an old pension or did you go to the new system?]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I had an old age pension of 200 000 S or 250 000 S, I would be very careful to deal with the term “service providers”. I don't think it's a public pension scheme to secure such pensions. Such a high standard of living does not require public pension schemes to be secured, but they must be life-saving. – In this direction, the debate must go: We cannot want to secure the standard of living of politicians or bank directors – in order to take another example, which is also common – for the future. This will not be possible, especially from public or semi-public funds. But if you agree with us that this is about security of existence, then you must do everything you can to ensure that this possibility is actually made. 70 percent of those insured in a social pension scheme have an old-age pension of less than € 1,000. - Is that a lot? 1 000 € for old age insurance? Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, you have presented us with proposals to go down by 20 to 30 percent by 2020! Finally, if they are to be covered by the compensatory allowance rate, they will not receive the compensation allowance. – This cynicism must be broken on the tongue! This is not our answer and cannot be our answer to the problems of old age insurance. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! We're right, we have a problem for the future. There will be more pensioners. No matter when they retire, whether 60 or 65 or 67 years of age: There'll be more. – Thank God it is so that people get older. However, it cannot be the case that private supplementary care is promoted by the State on the basis of a risk and that the public pension system is run down. That's the wrong answer!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5395	The next speaker is Dr. Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5413	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since this is my first speech here in the National Council, I would like to introduce myself briefly: Ferry Maier, I come from the constituency of Vienna-Nord, a constituency with 280 000 inhabitants, two districts – Floridsdorf and Donaustadt – and districts such as Kaisermühlen and the Großfeld settlement; some probably know them through television reports, but I do not want to address them. He is one of the largest constituencies in Austria and, as I mean, the most modern constituency. He is represented by seven Members, namely six colleagues from the Social Democrats and by me. I would like to say, in particular, because of the behaviour of the mayor, who occasionally also talks about luggage needed for travel, the danger of Vienna going into isolation, especially in the interests of my constituency, is very great. I therefore understand myself as a middleman between the constituency of Vienna-Nord and the Federal Government. I have also talked to the two district leaders about all the concerns that go towards the Federal Government. Mr Matznetter has rightly said that if you give the first speech, you can become a little basic, and I want to do so. I therefore like the debate so much in connection with this provision for the future, because it represents so classically the different ideological positioning: on the one hand, Mr Vergestnitsch, this forced happiness, the happiness simply decreed by the state, and on the other hand, the question of promoting the initiative itself. [[Abg. Conspicuous: Who is the state?]] That's where our spirits separate. It is clear to me why we have not been able to find a common denominator in the various negotiations of recent times. However, regardless of these ideological discrepancies, one should also draw on one or another report, such as the last OECD report published a few weeks ago, which indicates that there is a lack of symmetry in Europe as to the issue of pensions – not only in Austria but also in other countries – and explains what explosive costs threaten. I mean, you should take that a little to heart. One has tried for a very long time to shift away insurance mathematical approaches as if they did not exist. It'll pick you up sometime. The insurance subject matter cannot be left aside, we should take this into account. Sweden, for example – Sweden, for example, was socially democratic – has learned from it and has also changed in time to a kind of pension provision. With 2003, Sweden has chosen a new type of pension scheme, which is quite similar to that we are discussing today, if you want to do so. This is not a new international issue either, so I do not understand the concerns of the Green Group. In which countries of Europe is there already a three-pillar system? – In Switzerland, the Netherlands, in Sweden, Denmark, Finland, in Sweden in a modified form. [[Abg. Oils: They have all the problems!]] Thankfully, there is also a Hans Sallmutter – if it didn't exist, one would have to invent him – who made a statement yesterday and meant that the government was doing the tricky privatisation of public pension provision. I would like to quote from an EU Green Paper from 1997 – I do not want to talk about majority relations in Europe at this time – which points out that there must be a much greater use of capital-covered procedures with the aim of curbing the exploding state subsidies, countering inflationary tendencies, securing the stability of the euro and invigorating the European capital market. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Who wrote this?]] All of this is in the EU's 1997 Green Paper; I do not want to talk about the majority of Europe's relations at that time, as has been said. At this point the analysts should be made known very briefly. If you look at the world markets, the stock markets, the development of the ATX from 2001, 2002 and the forecasts, you will see that we have experienced quite a positive development compared to the other markets. The analysts – and I would point out that there are several here in this country who mean this – say that first – that's also funny, that must be stressed – the solid accounting practices in Austria are a reason for this. It is sad that you have to say that – I look there in other countries. Furthermore, an attractive market assessment and the favourable assessment of future security give rise to optimism for this development. This is the ideological difference between your approach and that underlying this future provision. In fact, this was the 24th anniversary. November 2002 also at the test stand – the voter has given the answer anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5482	I can give the floor to Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5503	Mr President. High house! Today, we are improving the system of future security already adopted by the population. In the short time since this provision for the future, there have already been about 15,000 contracts. In the final development we expect about 500 000 contracts. If you measure the value of this supplement to the existing pension system, that is: What does this supplementary pension cost to those people who want to keep their standard of living in retirement through private precautions, what does it cost when compared to the first pillar?, then the comparison speaks for itself. These premiums cost the state in final development with 500 000 contracts around € 100 million a year, plus a Kest loss of approximately € 110 million. That means that costs the state € 210 million. The federal grant for the ASVG-pension is €5.8 billion per year – currently with a strong trend, that's why we need measures. If the officials are charged, this means an annual grant of €5.8 billion. On the basis of these figures alone, we see that the first pillar of course still has a bearing function, but because of the cost development of the first pillar it is urgently necessary – that it has long been necessary! – to expand the second and third pillars. My previous speaker has just pointed out that this is a permanent EU recommendation and that we need re-examination in relation to the EU area. Reference has now been made to the falling stock prices and to the fact that the capitalised pension procedures have a significant disadvantage, because the capital is almost disintegrating in the hands. It was not mentioned that we took care of this product. Unfortunately, it has been forgotten to mention that there is a guarantee of capital in this system, including premiums, which is a significant improvement in relation to all other systems. This provision for the future is intended especially for the “little man. ” It was modelled on the system of the building savings bank; the building savings bank was intended as a savings system and was also adopted by the “little man”. In this system you can determine the amounts individually, and it is covered up. It is therefore not a saving form for the rich, but covered with the amount of €1 851 per year. Zum Secondly, I am referring to the gift tax. As a follow-up procedure for the abolition of the anonymous savings book, it was useful to introduce exemption from the gift tax, thus ensuring that the anonymous savings book can be transferred to a well-known savings book and that there is no substantial capital outflows. To extend this exemption by another year was especially the wish of pensioners' associations. There has now been a complete liberation for two years. We have an annual total tax revenue – values from 2002 – of € 54.9 billion. The inheritance and gift tax amounted to €150 million in 2002. If you take half of it for the gift tax, this results in a yield of 1.3 per milligrams of gift tax in relation to the total tax revenue. However, the tax obligation should be imposed from the tax class V on a gift of more than €100 000. – One always speaks of deregulation, but with this one imposes an obligation on the financial management, for which the effort is much higher than the possible yield. The fact that one can and should talk about the inheritance and gift tax in the context of a tax reform is on a different sheet. But now for a few months, until the end of the year, such an obligation for financial management officials is not in the sense of an administrative reform. It would have been preferable for me personally or for the financial management to have been extended by one year, i.e. until the end of this year, as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5562	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5580	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As Newcomer in this House, I have learned with great wonder how different positions have been spoken about this subject here. If Mr Stummvoll, as chairman of the Committee on Budgets, says that there should be a symmetry in the provision of pensions, then I miss the discussion on financial income in old age. A study by the Institute of Economic Research shows that the wage rate has fallen dramatically and that the largest increase in income from interest, real estate and rental results. In other words, those groups, which are higher in income, in addition to pension income or pension which they receive either from the pension fund or from the payment procedure, are in any case receiving property and property income. That is why I would like to say three things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. My first point: I had to be surprised that in this case, a legislative adjustment was necessary after such a short period of time. Why is that so? It has been mentioned several times by my previous speakers: There was no preparation or poor preparation! I was told that once a meeting was scheduled for the social partners with the Minister of Finance, but that the Minister of Finance had received such an important discussion that he sent them home again uncorrected things. – This was the involvement of the social partners in the preparation. This also explains that, after such a short period of time, this adjustment needs to be made. In the end, this also reflects the extent of the government's competence if, after such a short period of time, there is already a need for adaptation. But – and that has already been said – the current adjustment also leads to suboptimal conditions; on the one hand, because the Vienna Stock Exchange is only more available as an investment option, and on the other hand, because it is distorting competition within its forms by promoting this particular form. Let us speak on the Austrian capital market – also an essential goal; one of my previous speakers, Mr Maier, has mentioned a few figures: I am also in favour of the fact that we have a functioning capital market in Austria, because it plays an important role both in financing the growing companies and in ensuring the location. But reality shows something else. I looked at the numbers very carefully: With 14 percent, the Vienna Stock Exchange has the lowest stock exchange capitalization within the EU countries. I also looked at the companies that were newly listed and delisted: From the year 2000 to the present, 35 companies were taken from the stock exchange, whether because of privatisation, or because of bankruptcy, because many people see a chance to buy back their shares very cheaply at the low price level. These 35 listed companies face only 17 new ones. That is, we have a negative balance of 18 companies. Since the Austrian ATX was thus praised here, I must say that is true in the international comparison, but in real terms it has lost 10 percentage points from the year 2000 to the present. In this uncertain situation it is decided that people should be invited to use this third pillar of old age provision. Another number: If this future provision has reached 15,000 people up to now and is to be used at the end of the year for 500 000, that is 12 percent of all Austrians. The number of construction savings contracts in comparison – this one was also employed here – is: 5.2 million Austrians use this option. But what is the economic sense in which? Where do you want the old age pension to go? . We support the fact that we should not take into account the transfer of our state-funded pension systems, but rather concentrate on the proven payment procedure on the one hand, but also on the second pillar, on the provision of staff and pension funds. There are also enough people in these areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are for safe and fair pensions. This is our goal so that all the people of this country can expect a secure evening of life with great stability. Our goal is not the price set by the ÖVP and the Freeman, according to which wooden columns, stock columns are to be supported taxly and thus those people who use this system are led to a very risky high-rise. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5658	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5677	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to my previous speaker, I would like to say that I had the impression: Forward, comrades, we have to get back! – back to the state provision, the state alone is blessed, and the citizen has nothing to do! – The reality, ladies and gentlemen, looks different! The new state precautionary model, which has already been very successful in the first days of its existence with more than 15,000 degrees, has made an important contribution to ensuring the standard of living for future pensioners. The reduction of the statutory share ratio from 60 to 40 percent in the application will further increase the attractiveness and stimulate the capital market. In this context, I would like to refer in particular to the Finnish example. The introduction of a similar model enabled the Finnish capital market to improve considerably. It is clear to all of us that the Vienna Stock Exchange can use a stimulance very well, and I hope that this model of the domestic capital market will give the necessary impetus. In addition to the state pension provision, the second pillar, the occupational pension scheme is very important. I give you the right, Mr Moser. That is why, by reopening the premium discount to a maximum of € 1,000 per year for deposits in pension funds, we have tried to maintain attractiveness or ensure success. The three-pillar architecture of pension provision is particularly important for Austria. The third pillar is supposed to be about one third of the capital, according to the pension expert Rürup in 1997, and Mr Rürup is certainly not to be assigned to our family. However, we know from surveys that the majority of Austrians believe only more in the state pension system than basic care. The population, however, demands safety and concrete action. That is why the Federal Government, under Chancellor Dr. Schüssel, has demonstrated with the model of future security that it is capable and willing to address this major future social problem. Sustainable security of living standards is one of the main objectives of the People's Party. Above all, the young generation should be stopped to think early on about its own pension provision. For this reason, the premiums for entry into future provision have been kept particularly low. From 20 € per month you can get started. In particular, the institutions must undertake to guarantee the risk-free use of capital and premiums. – Mr Moser, because you mentioned the risk in the capital market: Capital and premium are clearly guaranteed! The success of the new product in the provision of the future proves that, as reported by the six institutions offering it, more than 15,000 citizens have already entered into a precautionary agreement. One of the reasons for the attractiveness of this state-funded future provision is, of course, the 9.5 percent premium. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The possibility of being able to issue its tax declaration via the Internet in the future also means an important administrative simplification for public authorities and citizens. Especially in public administration, close proximity to customers is increasingly to be brought to the fore. – An essential, positive development, I expressly welcome you. Another important point of this innovation is the extension of the tax exemption in the case of savings book grants. This will be possible throughout 2003, with the exception of Tax Class V, where there is an exemption of € 100 000. Finally, I would like to point out the fact that self-consumption in the context of car leasing. This was planned with a deadline until 2005 and a final solution is to be reached in accordance with an EU directive. Without an extension, a massive shift in domestic leasing and domestic purchases would take place abroad, resulting in a loss of income for the federal government. In particular, with regard to the future decision in the field of pension provision, I and my group welcome this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5735	Mrs Sburny is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5753	Mr President. High house! We are now discussing the repair of a law that the last government, which is still in office, has decided – with the aim of complete reorganisation of pensions. In the context of such a major change, the question of why is always raised. Who benefits from who loses, where to go? I am not talking here of the 210 million whom the Secretary of State mentioned earlier in 2003 in premiums and tax evasions, but of a long-term change in the pension system, which should reduce the state pension and support private provision. So who benefits from it? What changes? The old system, the charging system, has essentially a great advantage, namely the solidarity aspects contained in it. This means that there is essentially a redistribution between the poor and the rich and also between men and women, which is mostly closely linked due to the labour market situation. So the pay system has also spread between men and women. This system is now to be shortened, cut down, and state self-sufficiency is to be strengthened. Who would use this in comparison to the old system? It benefits – in short – those who can afford to call the so-called service providers, as they stupidly call Mr. Dr. popular, namely those who earn enough and can afford €1 851 per year for this private pension provision. All the others who deserve so little that they cannot afford to do so obviously do not fall within the scope of the service providers, especially not within the service providers. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I would ask you to look closer to the average income of women and men. The average income of women in 2001 was not quite €15 000 per year – and I would have liked to hear you explain to these women that they are not members of the service because they cannot afford €1 851 per year. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In other words, if you look at this pension reform, this whole pension restructuring, then you can see that this is not a short-term investment. The government has essentially formulated two objectives for this pension reform. One is the recovery of the capital market, also with regard to ‘basel II’, which it may succeed, perhaps not even if the Vienna Stock Exchange is too small. And as a second objective, it has formulated the strengthening of private provision, as a complement, as it claims. In fact, this is not a supplement because, in the medium term, the state pension will no longer be sufficient and, according to the government's will, does not have to be enough, because it believes that everyone and everyone can take care of the fact that the pension for the standard of living – regardless of the standard of living – will suffice. That is, if you still want this illustrated by an example, not the proverbial... – Yes, I know you don't hear that, because with your income all this doesn't matter. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But with income between 900 and 1 200 € In the month it is already a matter of whether you have to pay 150 € per month for your own care. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can understand that you do not want to hear from the ÖVP my examples, but you will still have to get used to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5839	In the word, no one has been reported for this. That concludes the debate. A final word by the rapporteur is not wanted. I would ask you to take the places, because we are going to vote, and we are voting on the draft law in 16 of the supplements. Mr Matznetter asked to vote separately on Article I. This desire shall be accepted. I shall therefore first vote on the part concerned by this request and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We are therefore voting separately on Article I of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this Article I to give a sign. – This is accepted by majority vote. Next, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask those Members who agree with the remaining parts of the proposal to give an indication of this. – This was unanimously adopted at second reading. The second reading is over. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, give their approval to this draft law to a sign in this regard. – The draft law was adopted by a majority vote in third reading. That is the point of the agenda. 2. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 35/A by Dr Helene Partik-Pablé, Fritz Neugebauer, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Pension Act in 1965 (17 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5910	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. Mr Ellmauer waived the introductory reporting. We are therefore going into the list of speakers. The first speaker is Mr Neugebauer. The watch is adjusted to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5934	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to other parameters, economic development, the Austrian welfare state and the political regulatory mechanisms have contributed to this. ensure that social and financial participation opportunities could be significantly improved for a large part of the population. Poverty is not a mass phenomenon today. Nevertheless, despite the general increase in prosperity in recent years and the significant improvement in the living situation, poverty reduction must continue to play a central role in our policy. Ladies and gentlemen! As part of the National Action Plan on the control of poverty and social exclusion, based on the Nice Council of 2000, so-called poverty risks are calculated for all EU countries. I do not repeat the content of the debate which we have held on the same subject in the January part-session when it came to raising the appropriate guidelines for married couples. What is available today is the follow-up of the adaptation to social security law for members of the retirement staff, i.e. for those colleagues who had a service relationship with the Confederation. It is undoubtedly another system, and the supplemental allowances according to the pension system for public servants have the same function as the compensation allowances in social security, namely to ensure the necessary living. With reference to the fact that, in the social security sector, we have unanimously decided on this increase and that the budget committee of this draft law has also decided unanimously, I invite you to join the present draft law as unanimously as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5980	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5998	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Before I go into the actual item on the agenda, the repair of the Pension Act, I would like to report something that was given to me on the occasion of various honours by German tourists. Firstly, I would like to make their request, and secondly, I think you should all know what German tourists say about our election campaign and how affected they have responded. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] There was, for example, the statement – which I repeat as it has come – that they are very affected and negatively impressed by Austria, because they have missed out on important issues in the election campaign, but had to take note of the fact that the only theme that was played high in the election campaign was to stir up the fear of red and green. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Because of the German government!]] I think you should know that. We also want to further expand and maintain tourism as the most important industry in Austria. But in the future, we should also consider how elections can be fought. [[New calls to the liberals.]] It has also been given me to tell you that you cannot compare the problems Germany has with the new Länder and what problems we have in Austria. We should already have to think if half of a country needs to be rebuilt there, which swallows enormous costs. No matter what government there is, whether black-blue or any color, you would have had the same problems. The Germans do not realize that their country is almost always humiliated by us, in the sense of what you have missed otherwise because of lack of topics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not know how you are doing, ladies and gentlemen, when you see magazines and illustrations on every corner of the station, on every corner in Vienna – but not only in Vienna, but throughout Austria – in which it is called “chaos in black and blue”. [[The speaker gives an issue of the magazine “profile” with the editor “Chaos in Schwarz-Blau, 2. Part’ in height.]] It is also asked: Why was elected? I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, that is what I am asking, and people outside are also wondering why it was chosen and whether it could not have been cheaper. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Yeah, we know you don't want any more elections. But you also need to know that people can see very clearly what is being done. About eight months ago, the government itself disbanded, so to speak, but there are still the same people in the government – and by the way, so at least the “curer” at least, the rich are getting richer and richer. There are comparisons between the EU, according to which Austria is the last of 15 EU countries in real wage development with 0.2 percent, while at the same time – also in the “Kurier” – the insolvency statistics are 50 percent of private insolvency... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where are we?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6077	Mr Hagenhofer, I hope these were German pensioners, so that we can now take the turn again to the Pension Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6107	Mr President, I am already referring to the Pension Act. And, of course, what the “Kurier” has written here is related to the Pension Act: This is a repair of the Pension Act today, and it is also, of course, being pressured that there is finally a government. If it is possible to work properly and take appropriate precautions, then such things do not happen that when the compensation allowance is increased to 100,000 people – that is, this law – it is simply and simply forgotten. The salary package for officials and pensioners was decided in January, it was introduced in December, and now in February we have to look after the married pensioners. – Ladies and gentlemen! If that doesn't smell like vortex and chaos, I don't know. I can only quote the “profile” again and ask what to do. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You should deal with the agenda, then you wouldn't have the problem!]] I would ask that in Austria it be possible to work properly again as soon as possible without always having to decide a repair of a law one month after another. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6161	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. The clock is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6180	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, especially Mrs Hagenhofer! Your private G’schalterl of the German tourists was not only a case of a case-by-case mistake – the President should have called you on the subject a lot earlier – but it was quite ridiculous. It was also ridiculous, above all, because you have the opinion of German tourists about our domestic policy in Austria, where the Germans themselves stand in the water and do not know how to shape their political conditions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] By the way: I believe that at least 30 or 40 percent of the red-green voters have already bitterly regrettably voted on these two parties. Mrs Hagenhofer, if You and your private friends from the Federal Republic of Germany already have something to do with the election campaign, then send the appeal to your own party! Mr Cap has intervened in this election campaign, which should actually impress the Germans, your friends. He explained, for example, that bowl was the “Hietzinger Napoleon. ” – And your German friends didn’t encounter that? And Mr. Häupl said that the formation of a blue-black coalition is “primitive.” – Please keep that before your German friends – and at the same time also your social democratic party friends. Your moral slat should be your own party, dear Mrs. Hagenhofer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] But I am already turning to our topic today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] . You can then tell me later, Mr Commissioner, I do not understand a word from your cries. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, between 1994 and 2000, there has been no increase in the compensatory allowance rate. It shows the high social sense of responsibility of this blue-black federal government that, despite the enormous need for savings, the compensation guidelines have now been increased or that they are being followed. This is an essential step towards combating poverty. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: Why not in January?]] Don't go around with those days now! You of the SPÖ have had ten years to increase the compensatory allowance rates, but you haven't done it. And now you're telling us we're doing this for the officials 20 days later than for the employees? At the last meeting, in which this issue has also been discussed, the Socialists, Mrs Mag. Christine Lapp – the social spokesperson, I think – has to admit that Austria is good at combating poverty. In our view, it is “only” – under quotations – 13 percent of the population at risk of poverty, while in the EU countries the poverty limit is far higher, for example in Portugal: There 23 percent of the population are threatened with poverty. This shows that a lot has been done in this area in Austria, especially under this government coalition of ÖVP and FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And today, another step is being taken to prevent people from getting close to poverty. In the public, the impression is constantly being made that officials are extremely good – whether they are in retirement or in working life. The average of public pensions also shows that these pensions are quite high. But it is always forgotten that there are a large number of officials who already earn little money during their working life and then, of course, also have a very low pension. It is therefore necessary for us to make this compensation allowance adjustment so that those officials who have a very low pension do not get under the wheels. I'm very glad we succeeded. I think we should not go around it now, question the time and find everything bad, but I suggest: Voices Together with us, you will be pleased that we are taking a further step towards making retirement easier for people who have worked well for a lifetime.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6263	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6285	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! A short preliminary remark: It is already illuminating if there is no supposed coalition agreement yet and also very important points such as the question of the contributions of the insured for the visit of doctors – there are indeed hearing sums in discussion – are supposed to be still open, but there is obviously already the harmony and the blue-black equal. So obviously the question is 5 € or 10 € per doctor's visit... – You take that into account, that does not interfere with the common request. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who says that?]] We take note of this. It's brilliant. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Your accusations are illuminating, as always!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The request also shows how little all that came from the government side again and again, not from the opposition, namely the deterioration of the public service, the accusation of the people with the supergages and the privileges, actually applies, because the compensation allowance does not receive those with the supergages. In this context, it is also important for me to stress that, of course, with each of these small and certainly necessary adjustments and changes, there is an opportunity to change the system in principle. For the compensation allowance for married couples: In addition to the difficulty of this term, the institution also carries its perils. It's not a real minimum board. The compensation allowance will be collected immediately if small incomes are perhaps obtained somewhere. This means a lot of bureaucracy, and that, of course, also means atrocities for people who have not fallen on the butter side anyway. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point: ‘for married couples’. – It is still that large parts of the pension system are based on the fact that safety – especially for women – is only through the institution of the Marriage is attainable. There are still hundreds of thousands of women who do not have their own pension at all. The compensation allowance for married couples is significantly lower than for two individuals. And both pillars of our pension system, i.e. the continuing – I add here: male – work and marriage, have become unsuitable as a general principle of a modern social pension scheme of tomorrow. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we need is an independent security for all older people, for women and men, regardless of the coincidences, of the fates that existed during working life or during family life. And this independent pension scheme for women and men is of course pushed to the long bank with each of these small and smallest repairs of the old system. For a long time, the Greens have been providing basic protection in old age. That would be a fair system, it would also be a stable and financial system, but of course it requires the willingness to make a fundamental change. This would be necessary, in particular, for the situation of women in Austria, as a matter of urgency and exaggeration. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am afraid that there will soon be more compensatory allowances for women, because what you have presented by the Pension Reform Commission and which appears to be in government negotiations does not promise anything good – for example, for women on the thumb leveled at minus 20 or minus 30 per cent in pensions. You have to keep that in mind once! [[Contradict with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – This is what the Commission itself writes in the papers. You just need to read the papers, that's a prerequisite. In the chapter entitled ‘Independent retirement insurance for women’ – the whole paper is of course not opposed, contrary to the government’s obligations – an annex on seven sides in a thick forest deals with the self-reliance of women, only from the point of view of increased child counties, not on the fact that there is usually also a lot of discrimination for women. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I've missed any willingness to really move something here. This will become difficult, and I already admit that this is not a small throw, but if you never start with it, then you will never come to the urgently needed basic security in old age. One last word to the neo-college new gebauer. – Mr Neugebauer! A few days before the election, the public service has received a letter from you from officials in the public service, surprisingly on the paper of the entire union of public service, addressed to the “ dear colleague” and the “ dear colleagues” by Fritz Neugebauer. And Fritz Neugebauer wrote in this letter on GÖD paper – I quote: “ÖVP is the only party in its programme to make a sustainable commitment to the public service. In contrast, unripe red-green ideas, such as: the reduction of the cost of bureaucracy by 25 %, of which every 4th would be affected by public servants!- Oh, my God! I am convinced that every vote for the EIA is in the sense of modern public services and future-proof jobs.” – Citation. Mr Neugebauer! Sage Perhaps this is the 35 000 Members who are now to be dismantled.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6401	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6420	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since we discussed Germany earlier, we need to add to the honesty: If Germany did not, as the current Austrian Federal Government does, resort to the wallets of its citizens, then there would be no deficit in Germany, not even a single-percenty, but a big plus. There is a tax rate of well below 40 percent, as opposed to what we have here in Austria, which is more than 44 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] About four weeks ago, we raised the compensatory entitlements for married people to the one and a half times of unmarried persons. It is obvious that the officials were forgotten at that time. We fix it today, and it's good that we fix it. And it is also good if the different pension systems are harmonised. But the problem is that the differences between these pension systems continue to be serious. Especially among young people, confidence in the pension system has been shaken – not least thanks to the policy made by the Federal Government in the last three years. According to current surveys, only about every fifth young person in this country believes that he himself will receive a pension. I don't wonder, because before a National Council election, the pension system is hardly a subject – it's all secured, it doesn't have to be changed much. However, immediately after a election, the system's unfinancing is evident for the ÖVP and FPÖ. Commissions will be convened, working groups will meet, papers will be written, and then the Minister of Finance and the Chancellor will step in front of the curtain and announce a century reform and calm everyone again. All pensioners, all old people can sleep quietly again, but not only them, but also young people can sleep well and calmly again, because a century reform has been decided, and pensions are guaranteed for the next decades. And after the next election, the whole thing starts again. Pensions are not covered again, and in turn there is a need for incisive measures. I believe that this game, which is being driven there, must finally end. If we want to secure pensions in the long term, we also need to make a long-term policy, and this includes eliminating the many injustices currently existing between pension systems and partly also within pension systems. A few examples of this. For example, a worker for every euro she pays in the system may get only 90 cents, while on the other hand, for example, an official for every euro he pays can get up to €2. Another injustice is that the current Federal Government – and if you can believe the eyes of Andreas Khol, also the future Federal Government – wants the workers to work for 45, 46, 47 or even 50 years, but at the same time sends officials to retirement after 30 or 40 years. It is also an injustice if only the ASVG sector and the pensions of the workers and employees are discussed over and over again, where the federal grant to this area is not even 20 percent, whereas the pensions of the farmers, the tradesmen and the officials are hardly mentioned, where the federal grant is 50, 60 or almost 70 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ has put in this debate a new proposal, a reform proposal that really deserves the name “reform”, namely a single system for all under 35 years old. However, this does not want the Federal Government, because that would be a real reform. This federal government is only making a policy of fast money, of tax policy and of losing budget problems over a few years. Just those whom you said a few years ago, you can only retire a year and a half later, to whom you said a few months ago in the election campaign that it was not at all thought of increasing the retirement age, just these people are now saying: Unfortunately, you had bad luck, you have to work three, four, or five years longer. You think this is true of people while you do not think it reasonable that those who enjoy a high pension make a small solidarity contribution and thus help to finance pensions. One thing you must first explain to me – but not only to me, but above all to the people outside or here in the hall – which is why the beneficiary of a small pension of tomorrow can very well make a contribution to ensuring the pension system, while on the other hand, the beneficiary of a large pension today cannot contribute. It's a mystery to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Small steps of harmonisation are also important steps, but I am sorry that we are always only satisfied with small steps and do not want to make big and real reforms and, especially in the pension area, to make a real major reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6496	The next speaker is Mr Walch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6515	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to Mr Krainer von der SPÖ – he is, as I am, new here in the house – that: Ask your colleagues what they have done over the last 30 years! There would have been enough time for the SPÖ to make exactly those repairs that we now have to make! [[Abg. Eder: You can put the dirt in your hair!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] It surprises me a little bit that Colleague Hagenhofer turns out here and plays the insulted liver sausage... – you'll come to terms without that! [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Be democrats! You always call yourselves that, but apparently you are none. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] So colleague Hagenhofer turns out here and draws a comparison between Germany and Austria. – I think the Austrians certainly do not want a German government and no such system as in Germany, because if I look at it as it looks, I can only say: Good night, Austria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] If I have to look at the current government and hear, as Mr Petrovic says, the ÖVP is going back as a brother with the FPÖ – or the FPÖ with the ÖVP – then I can already point out to you: Mrs Petrovic, we are just a coalition! [[Abg. Eder: An incompetent!]] I don't know if you forgot, but the FPÖ and the ÖVP are still in a coalition. [[Call at the SPÖ: Why did we actually vote?]] If I then hear about self-preservation and many other things that are written in the media, then I have to say – I am employee representatives and for over 30 years employed in the private sector and working there as a works council –: If, instead of taking a timely and constant look at where one can carry out such reforms, there is nothing to do for 30 years, then these reforms have to be implemented afterwards and, of course, incisive measures have to be taken. But I can tell you: Think carefully and see what is written in the media and what comes out afterwards! [[Abg. May. Prammer: You can take poison on it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are on the right path with this law, which is now in place for decision-making. This government at least dares to take action, and even in times like those in which debt is present at billions, it sets out positive measures like these! I am particularly proud as a libertiest that we have a free social minister who has shown in recent years what “social” means. [[Abg. Gaál:... terrible!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where has the SPÖ carried out an approximation of workers and employees over the past 30 years? – There was a lot of talk about it, but nothing was done! You've always announced you're doing something at the deal. There was a lot of talk, but nothing was done! Where did you make a corresponding family policy? – On the contrary: You reduced the child's allowance from two to one and a half years. – It was doubled under our Minister of Social Affairs! There is now the childcare allowance, there are times that are charged for the pension, there are merit possibilities! – You have sent the women back to the stove, and we have given them the opportunity to get back into the profession and earn something for it. [[lively ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have to tell you the truth, otherwise you will always forget what you have decided in the last 30 years. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Bures and Mr Gaál.]] So all these positive measures have been put in place by our Minister. In fact, if a coalition between ÖVP and FPÖ comes back, you would have to make a request here, saying: Main needs to become ministers again, because he really did something for the working people. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Bravo!]] That's why I have to say: I am glad that this law is being passed today, because it serves to combat poverty. That is, social policy in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6687	Mr Wimmer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6705	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Max Walch, as employee representatives of the Freemans, you will of course have hard times in this House, but I am convinced that you will also somehow be doing this – you have already proved it in the Upper Austria in a terrible way. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will agree to this proposal. We Socialists have always stood and stand on the side of the weaker, and it is therefore quite clear that we will agree to this proposal. It is a bit strange, however, that this presentation was not adopted at the salary innovation last time – there the topic would have been better accommodated than today – but obviously it was forgotten to a small group of former officials. That's nothing new: It has been so often over the last two and a half years that the ÖVP and the FPÖ have forgotten people, ladies and gentlemen, very much. I therefore think that there is a reason for joy today, we should remember this day, because today there is a request from ÖVP and FPÖ, with which for the people, for the officials in retirement – even if it is only a small group – is introduced. We are used to other things by you – I just mention two examples: first, the unsocial, inhuman accident pension tax and second, the crazy ambulance fee that we have had to take in the last two and a half years. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Murauer has today brought in the “Schüssel I” and “Schüssel II” division. I can still remember very well “Cut I. ” At the time, he said that we have expenditure-side savings to make, that the budget is primarily regulated and rehabilitated on the part of expenditure. – We know today that this was exclusively about taxes and revenue. The list would be too long if I were to list all the measures that were taken at the time. I have also been listening to ‘Schüsel II’ for a few days, which says that we must dampen expenditure. – Ladies and gentlemen! There is not even a new government yet, but the load wave is already rolling – at least the ideas stand for it. If I hear and read and think that mineral oil tax should be increased, I have to ask the question: Well, who will take this measure? – Of course, primarily those colleagues who cannot give up on the car. There will also be general restraints, which are thought to put the smallest incomes at the strongest. This, ladies and gentlemen, will be the future classic health tax: €5 for a visit to the practical doctor, €10 for a visit to the specialist and – you go one step further – an increase in pensioners' health insurance contributions by 1 percent. Here too, it will be as we have been used to in the last two and a half years: It will only affect the beneficiaries of the smallest income. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of so many horrors that are ahead of us and which are to be expected, it is good to be able to support this proposal as a Socialist Group today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6760	In the word, no one has been reported for this. That is why I am closing the debate. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 17 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law at second reading to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading to give a sign. – I notice: The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. ==References== Agenda item. 3rd. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 39/A by Mr Barbara Rosenkranz, Dr. Erwin Rasinger, Manfred Lackner, Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the pharmaceutical law (15 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6821	We're coming to the 3rd. Agenda item. There is no need for oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Rasinger. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6848	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! We are talking about the pharmaceutical law at this item on the agenda. This law has a lot to do with risk prevention and the threat of conflict in Iraq. What's this about? – It’s about the possible contamination of smallpox viruses, and these smallpox viruses are of course very, very dangerous. America has bought 200 million vaccines – by the way at an Austrian company – and Germany buys 100 million vaccines. In order for Austria to be able to keep up, a new vaccine had to be purchased. Why a new vaccine? – The old vaccine had side effects. According to WHO, the smallpox has not been officially available since 1977. The smallpox vaccinations, which were carried out before 1977, had an adverse effect rate of about five deaths on a million vaccinated doses – so it was, one has to say, an enormously dangerous vaccination – and 50 cases of brain inflammation. This was actually a vaccination, in which the risk of side effects was already very likely to be considered. Thank God the world is smallpox-free today, but there is one in America and one in Russia. That means: If Iraq were successful, but it is not enough, but it would be theoretically possible to reach viruses, this would, of course, be an eminent danger, because the population has not been vaccinated at all. The risk is very difficult to estimate, but of course it is not zero. Who would be affected primarily? – These would probably be people in the vicinity of airports or public facilities such as railway stations. And of course you have to step in. After seven to ten days, which are more like a flu-like syndrome – with limb pain, fever and so on – it would be the famous smallpox-pussels .................................................................................................... The mortality of this viral disease would be very, very high: 20 to 50 percent of people would die from it. In order to eliminate this residual risk, which would result from a kind of bioweapons attack in Austria or in any part of the world, a responsible health policy must react accordingly. I hope that the case will not occur, but you have to make people very aware of it. You have to avoid panic first – this is very important. People have to be told that the risk is very, very low. It makes no sense to have a prophylactic vaccination in a mining village. Secondly, Don't be quick to immunize. This makes no sense at all, because it is not exactly whether it is completely risk-free for the new vaccine, which is much lower in its side effect. Third – and this is very important –: Good health care must be prepared. That is why the Austrian government, especially the Ministry of Health, bought already in December, not the old vaccine, but a new vaccine that has not yet been approved. And that is why we have to decide the law today, so that in the event of a disaster we can act quickly and adequately and with the slightest evil, i.e. with the slightest side effects. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I think Austrian health policy, especially the ministry, has responded very well here: The doctors are trained, panic has been avoided, there is sufficient vaccine available. In my opinion, this is a classic case where it shows how to deal with a problem – which hopefully does not happen! – reasonable and adequate handling. I hope that this law will be exemplary for all other actions that the Ministry of Health will set in the future. This law is also passed unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6918	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6937	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Today, with this four-party initiative proposal for the amendment of the Medicines Act to the threat and threat scenarios after the 11th century, we are in a position to do so. In September, of course, this request is also supported by my group. Our consent will also be given to the use of medicinal products which have not yet been authorised, if approved medicinal products are not available in sufficient manner. However, it should be noted that Paragraph 3 of the Medicines Act is to be contested, which prohibits the placing on the market of medicinal products in which, according to the state of scientific knowledge and according to practical experience, it does not appear to be assured that they do not have any harmful effect when used in accordance with the conditions laid down. Dear ladies and gentlemen! With regard to all the problems, with all possible threat scenarios, we should not be guided by the hysteria that is now taking place in some countries, because the smallpox, which was the reason for this change in law, have at least the advantage of vaccinations against it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Since those partners who decided in September last year to split up due to unbridgeable differences and thus gave rise to new elections, after recent but fierce competitions of love, apparently again fin to each other. The first outlines of new pressures in almost all areas of policy are already being drawn up. The health policy sector is of course not excluded either. They also stay here, so today's headlines in the media – and I don't doubt – true to their bad intentions. Sick people are supposed to pay! – This is obviously the currency of the possible new Federal Government. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Away from solidarity, to the alms and stress policies of conservative influence! What, ladies and gentlemen, is coming to us? What can be seen so far? – € 5 for the doctor's visit in the settled area and € 10 for the visit of a specialist, and the contributions should also be increased for pensioners. So the headlines in today's media. This is interesting, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups: Two years ago, in the last legislative period, you introduced the chaotic ambulance fee on the grounds that you want to control the patient flows in the settled area, because it is more cost-effective. After you – and this is quite clear – have failed, self retention should now be introduced during your doctor's visit. Now for me, of course, the question is: Where do you want to move this time? Or should sick people be stopped from visiting a doctor? When I look at reporting in today's media and also a press release of the Chamber of Doctors Vienna, in which it reads: “VP-FP new edition becomes the grave of Austrian health policy”, then I can only join this fully in terms of content, because exactly this doctor’s fee or this retention will naturally – and so it is feared – prevent many people from visiting the doctor. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] What will happen then is clear: The repair medicine, which then has to follow, will be much more expensive! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe – and that is certain for me – that this is only a cheap, little intelligent downfall for the sick and the weakest of our society. This shows once again, ladies and gentlemen, how your in-depth and innovative deficits become apparent in health policy. Finally, it should be recalled that in a report from January this year, Mr Rasinger first spoke so vehemently for the introduction of self-reservation and a few days later, this vehement was advocating. I could say now that Colle Rasinger is a “double Rasinger”, he has created a so-called win-win situation in which he – at least he has believed – can only win in any case. However, I hope that Mr Rasinger – he is now in the hall – will then look to his final report. I hope, Mr Rasinger, that we will have in you a strong associate when it comes to preventing self-preservation during a doctor's visit. Or isn't it, Mr. Rasinger? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7032	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. The clock is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7050	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My previous speaker already made it: It is the world political situation, which was also a subject of today's present hour, which forces us to take precautions and security measures for the Austrian population and also for those Austrian soldiers who are engaged abroad. It is the potential threat posed by bioterrorist attacks that causes us to take legal action so that those measures, which have already led the Minister of Health and the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State, can also find their legal coverage. It is an exemplary approach that excludes hysteria because it is being acted on in good time and the problem has been addressed in peace and with materiality. The concrete occasion – including that has already been mentioned – is the problem of an attack with smallpox viruses. We know that there is currently no approved vaccine that would be available and that, according to the state of science, it will achieve the success that a vaccine can achieve, which has not yet fully verified the authorisation rules. This change of law now allows for the use of a medicinal product which has not yet met the authorisation rules if no other authorised medicinal product is available to ensure the state of scientific success. The application is a four-party request, and it is also clear that there can be no doubt that this change of law is necessary. High house! I have the honour of speaking here before you for the first time, and I am allowed to make some fundamental comments on health policy, especially since it also permits my time. You may also be a little interested in it, as I - and I expressly thank you for it - was elected the chairman of the Health Committee. The health care system in Austria is a highly developed one, it is powerful and it is also very well organized. Nevertheless, it has an ever-increasing financial need. In fact, this is not really a contradiction, but one can see from closer consideration that it is also good that the system has an increasing financial need, because the better a health system works, the higher the state of science and technology, the more efficient the treatment methods are – we have treatment methods, of which previous generations could not even dream – the more expensive the system is and the higher the life expectancy of the people – gratifyingly – which, in turn, will cost the system. The ever-increasing financial needs are, therefore, a fact that we have to meet, but which is by no means bad. How do we now have to organize the financial needs? – One thing is: The existing resources must be fully disciplined and used in socio-political terms. As someone who comes from Lower Austria and can notice a very strongly anchored pro-porz system there, I can see that party-politically motivated conflicts of interest between the individual financiers and those responsible are always something that is carried out on the back of the patients and which is definitely to be neglected in the future. Any structural reform must also take into account that the incentive to get involved in such conflicts of interest is falling. The second – you will all know that –: There is always a conflict of interest between local policy and health policy. There, too, support measures must be taken so that, in particular, local politicians, who are very often subject to the constraints of health care institutions, are relieved of doing something they could not really want to do. These are things that can be safely improved and avoided through structural reforms. It is also about avoiding costs. It will be necessary – and the Secretary of State has already announced it – to focus on preventive medicine, the precautionary medicine from the point of view of which it has so far been known. Every euro we invest in precautionary medicine will save us a lot of euros in curative medicine. We have already achieved a very successful project in Austria, the mother-child pass, and this has also been evaluated. One knows how much has been saved by risking the relatively low investment of the mother-child passport. The third thing is that reforms – including a good system – must always be made. I would ask my previous speaker, Mr Lacner, not to trust the headlines so much. I'm wondering something when someone says: This or that is in the paper, and I have no doubt at all that this is true. I would rather ask you to wait for the negotiations and then discuss them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ: It's in the paper!]] Yes, it's in the paper – you know more than I do! There has not yet been a degree in many points. [[Abg. Gradwelt: The journalists are just inventing this, aren't they?]] These reforms must be based on some principles. One thing is certain: The individual responsibility of the potential patient for his health needs to be repeatedly advised and strengthened. Finally, it is the case that one bears very great responsibility for his own health and that one can influence him very strongly. It is quite the same as it was once said: It's the head that builds the body. Thus, by a good attitude, by sound living, one can certainly exclude many things from the outset. But, of course, not everything – and the principle of solidarity is very strong: the principle of solidarity between those who need health care and those who do not need it. Or I could also say: those who currently need it, and those who do not need it at the moment, because we know that especially at the beginning of life, in childhood, and then, of course, at the end of life, in the years of old age, of old age, which health care is claimed. - No, no, no, no, no, That's banal. – Solidarity is, so to speak, a reasonable principle, because it is hoped that everyone will grow old or be very old, and then he will need this solidarity, which he should exercise before – and that is just – too. Next is the principle of justice. – The high standard of our health care is a result of our good training, our good universities, our good schools. This is a result that all Austrian taxpayers share. The high standard of our health care is a social achievement. That's why it must never and never – and for that I also guarantee myself on behalf of my party – be rationalized when it comes to getting the performance provided by all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It must be so that everyone, without his financial potential being decisive, can also use what all together guarantee for their benefit.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7114	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7133	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Apparently, the majority of government parties are currently investigating health. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: All this is stenographically held!]] Nevertheless, I would like to say a few words on the subject. This law, which is to be passed on by four parties, should once again be placed in relation to the real potential for threats. My knowledge – and so it is – has not yet been the victim of a smallpox or bioterrorist attack on Austria. That means that the risk potential is God's relatively low. Much greater is the risk in that area in which the debates on health coalitions between the two parties FPÖ and ÖVP are now moving. There are at least 8 million Austrians at risk – not that of being ill with smallpox, but of being cared for, possibly badly, unjustly, unfairly. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But let's stay with the smallpox. I do not think there can be a party of good conscience from the task of taking precautions for certain events. That's what we did. There are now some fears that this law, in which it is said, in crises, disasters and war-related cases of conflict, could also lead to drugs that have not yet been approved, would push a gate that would make it possible to use drugs that have not been tested at all once. I need to say something about that. The draft of this law clearly states that this is only possible in the event of terrorist and military conflicts and only when no drugs with scientifically proven efficacy are available on the market. In other words, you have to weigh the benefit-risk potential: Do you harm with these drugs more or do you help more? A brief comment on this: In case of smallpox infestation, you have to expect 30 percent of the deaths of the infected persons. In the previous vaccine, which has been bought up more or less by the UK and the USA, it has been calculated that two to three deaths per one million vaccines occur, regardless of other side effects that may occur in the 10-percent range. That sounds a lot now, of course, but I tell you – and this is not a sarcasm – that even in dental extractions under local anaesthesia more than three deaths occur annually in Austria – and that is the truth and only the truth. I did not get an answer from State Secretary Waneck to my question whether Bush's vaccination was the occasion to update it here, nor did I get a reply to whether the side effects of this vaccination were detected with Bush. I was told that there could be diplomatic developments there, so I put it right: I asked if he had side effects, I didn't claim it. It would be too easy to clarify. With regard to this law, I come to a question to Mr Waneck: What about other potential threats such as anthrax, botulism, cholera, plague or yellow fever? Have you taken similar precautions, or do we keep silent about that? Now to colleague Rasinger, who is already in the health examination. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] - Is he still there? Ah, there he is. He's healthy, thank God! I wish him too. He has probably limited himself only to the law and has not talked about his eiertanz – if you allow me this expression – in the self-keeping. A savings potential of € 1 billion in the health system is required by the Federal Government – or by the ÖVP if you want to do so. The debate between the apocalyptic scenario of cash deficits and private publications of the Christian Democratic shell is moving, but I believe that private publications must also be able to be questioned scientifically or ethically in a parliament. The Federal Government has commissioned a study on the impact of self-maintainment in which eight nations of the EU have been examined, including Austria. This was carried out by the Institute of Industrial Sciences, which is certainly not an instrument of the Greens and none of the Social Democrats, and by ÖBIG. These say the effect is zero to marginal. There are studies more important to me than private publications of bowls, especially when it sticks to them like a dogma and brings them into the government negotiations. To divide 1 billion by four and say that a quarter of the structural measures, a quarter of the cost of medication, a quarter of self-maintenance and a quarter of the increase in contribution, although this is a simple national school bill – divided by four with a round number of 1 billion is not extremely difficult – but nevertheless the whole does not become smarter because the ÖVP and its national leaders in their sector in terms of structural measures that must take place in the countries – with ten different laws in Austria, this is an increase in federalism, I must say seriously and emphatically – will ensure that this saving effect will not occur in this legislative period. For this purpose, the financial compensatory negotiations and the provisions of the State Treaty speak with the Article 15a agreements. Then the ÖVP leaned back and said: The Greens must bear this, the Social Democrats must bear it, we would like et cetera. And so it was on many points. It has also overlooked the fact that we are third in the world with regard to the private financing of the health system. According to the U.S. with over 55 percent and the Netherlands with 32 percent, Austria is already third in the world at over 30 percent. And that then an economic party that operates sorcerers without reddening – this color you wouldn't dare to wear in the face at all – speaks of tax reliefs, but from the people cashing money elsewhere and saying that I, State, am not capable of doing so, it doesn't matter to me who's sick, it's itself guilty, it's cool. To my predecessor. Self-reliance should not go so far as to ask people who get sick without their guilt, for example in the event of smallpox infestation, for cash. Illness often occurs in a sceptical way. I am in favour of anchoring as close a right as possible to health and protection from disease, but I think that the duty to health would be a little too exercisive. I do not wish for that, because I lack all kinds of solidarity. Finally, because it sounds stupidly “very nice” – that was cynical now – or just not so much like to hear: The cash-in deficit was created for the following reasons: Gross domestic product has grown more than wages and salaries. Of course, wages and salaries result from the proceeds of the cash registers. The expenditure of the cash registers has gone up in some way like gross domestic product, i.e. profits from economy, capital, land, land, property, savings books and what else you would like to mention. And who is responsible for the wage level? Is it really the sick who can be over it... – Not the government, but the economy maybe a little, right? And the trade unions want less, and you offer more. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Not the government!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: A contract always makes two! Trade unions and employers!]] So this is a new negotiating tactic from you, but please, if you believe that! Then the health insurance companies have been given 2.5 billion schillings in addition by the government. You know that. Employers are given the time to pay, they have to pay later, employers' contributions are reduced, health insurance funds also have to finance private hospitals, the federal grants in the stationary area, and the federal grants at the Farmers' Hospital. Isn't that right? That's right! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: This is a part of the truth!]] Part of the truth, but I believe that this part of the truth is enough for you to take on your responsibility. I really hope, Mr Rasinger, that this time there is no turning point. I would even ask you to join the negotiation team once, so that a health speaker for the ÖVP is negotiating. That might not be a bad sign. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: We wanted to negotiate loud Tyroleans!]] Thank you very much for the compliment to Tyrol. - I'll end with that.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7267	Mrs Steibl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7285	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to refer briefly to the comments made by my previous speaker and to the item on the agenda on which it is about amending the Medicines Act. I would like to say that we must be aware of this and also be aware that Austria has a long-standingly powerful health system, which does not need to hide an international comparison. [[Call the SPÖ:No more!]] This should also be said loud here and not only incite fears. This health system must also be maintained in difficult times. For example, a survey by Eurostat – which seems to me to have hit the nail on the head, otherwise you would not object – shows that almost 72 percent of the Austrian population are very satisfied or satisfied with health care. [[Abg. Gradwell: They are working hard to make this change!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Still!]] I believe that surveys, which sometimes quote the SPÖ, should be taken seriously. This puts Austria in second place in the EU on a scale of satisfaction to Finland. [[Abg. To be sure, Mrs. Colleague!]] - Wait! You didn't get in from the SPÖ. You didn't take part, we'll make the most of it. Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, we must try by all means to maintain this value also in a disaster that we hope will not occur. We have the moral obligation to ensure the safety of Austrians also in the situations raised, because the population at least gave us great confidence from the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My colleague Rasinger has already made it clear that realistically the case will never happen, but that we must have in mind that there are officially two laboratories, one in Atlanta and one in Russia, where the mentioned viruses exist. We probably don't need to fear the Americans and the Russians. The Americans will not destroy their smallpox virus stocks before the Russians and vice versa. We must remember, however, that there are problems, rather, with small states and terrorist organisations, which may have resources on this virus. Anyway, that's what the secret services say when you read it. In these organisations, the incidence of a biological fight is significantly lower than in the US or Russia. We have already heard that the old vaccine had too many and too severe side effects. This vaccine has also been used for the eradication of the disease and is therefore of older origin. That means you've been on the 11th. It is only now working on prophylaxis until September 2001. We must also remember that there is a need to implement a number of things in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! However, hysteria must not be spread among the population. Everyone should know that Austria is well prepared for the serious situation. I would like to mention once again: In one to two weeks, mobile medical and health teams will be available in all federal states who are trained in the field of suspect diagnostics. Finally, I would like to say that we now have a vaccine that is much more advanced than the previous one. Today's decision-making can be seen as a small but important step in the fight against international terrorism, a respectful provision. That this time all four parties agree is, I think, a positive signal and I hope that this will happen more often with a new government in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7377	Next speaker is Mrs Scharer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7395	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The present four-party proposal to amend the Medicines Act in the light of the current world political situation makes it clear how important it is to safeguard health care and health care, regardless of income, Austrians and Austrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For us Social Democrats, both the financial and political security and the further development of – Mrs Ridi Steibl! – still highly developed Austrian health systems top priority. Structural reforms are clearly necessary. There must be better networking of services in order to be able to achieve above all cost-lowering synergies. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we also see high savings potential in drug costs, but above all through targeted preventive measures in health policy. What influences endanger health? Dear Members of the ÖVP! I know that I may now be bored with the issue of unemployment which you have referred to as the'mikeymouse theme', but I would like to draw your attention to the consequences of it. At present, 304,000 Austrians are unemployed, 47,100 young people and 90,000 older people, that is, people over 45 years of age. Ladies and gentlemen! The current situation on the labour market is frightening people who are unemployed or who are threatened with unemployment. [[Call at the ÖVP: The SPÖ is going to make it!]] If we do not give young people prospects for opportunities for education, training and employment, this will end in disorientation and much too often in addiction. Poverty creates possible barriers in the health system. Mrs Partik-Pablé! We cannot be proud of “only” 13 percent of those affected by poverty. Don't forget the dark ones! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] More and more workers are being muttered, increasing fear of losing their job no longer making use of the sick person. The proportion of those workers who are sent to pension due to illness is constantly increasing. It is therefore essential to improve the conditions for unhealthy jobs. This can be achieved especially through better in-house medical care. The expenditure on pensions from the insurance case of reduced work capacity alone costs a fortune. Ladies and gentlemen! Anxiety, disorientation, mbbing and poverty, as well as health-threatening working conditions make them sick and cause high costs. Job security, youth employment measures, poverty reduction and healthy working conditions help not to raise supply costs at all. In a reform, it is therefore very important, among other things, to pay particular attention to high-quality health care. The path described and proposed by the ÖVP today in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” is anything but social.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7445	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7463	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! If the SPÖ colleagues were to read a little less paper and deal more with the problems of the state, we could save ourselves many of these discussions here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Reheis: Look into your own rows!]] – Screaming is a strength that is true, fear a weakness. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the last Committee on Health, we voted by means of a four-party request to enforce the release of unauthorised medicinal products in extreme cases. I would like to mention here that the last legislative period has already been established in the Medicines Act that this release will be launched in case of use for soldiers, and I am convinced that it will now be improved because it is also worthy of protection for the Austrian population as soon as there is any danger or threat. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to mention once again that this is not just a means of combating smallpox. No, no, no, It is also a matter of means against any threat. It is very likely that this is also about the release of medicinal products in the various areas. But I also have to say that I am very positive – I emphasize this: very positive! – I am surprised how constructively the SPÖ and the Greens participated in these applications. It is these political star-hours in which all the parties here in the National Council are ready to work for the cause and for the people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Dear colleague! If you want to talk, come. I'd like to talk to you about this. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] It's just that, my colleague: Unfortunately, these star-hours are usually only star sniffs, because unfortunately – this has shown itself very often in the past legislative period – whenever it comes to subject-political issues, the SPÖ... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] Mrs Trunk is here again. [[Abg. May. Trunk: Always!]] I'm glad! I'm very glad! I see them here very often. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer:... at the intensive care station!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] – Maybe I can continue, you can all speak later. This is certainly, as Mr Lackner has proved, just one star sniff, because immediately this party polemic is transferred back to this party polemic. Instead of talking about health, we are talking about jobs. It really surprises me that it has not been discussed again about interception hunters and government participations. But we'll see that in the afternoon. At this point I would like to appeal to everyone that the health issue should have a model effect. The issue of health should and must be exemplary for all the parties represented here in the National Council. If we do not put the people's well-being before our private interests and our party interests on important issues, then the population will not only laugh at one party or another, it will laugh at all parties. I would like to write this to you in the main book, because I am convinced that we could need it in the present time to show unity in important questions. I'm a little surprised, 'cause in January I was sitting here and everybody's muttered: Black and green will go to a government. It has opened up a broad front on the other hand. Now it's muttering. Black and blue will go to a government. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us end the negotiations. Reading coffee sauce and throwing bones are not in demand here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There will only be a result with constructive negotiations. As a small representative of my group, I do not dare to say how it will proceed. You seem to know. Either you have good informants or you're just sad that you're out of the race. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take the time to return to the subject of health. This is the subject of the current discussion. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes! That's right! You recognized it! Great!]] I think it is time for someone here to take the floor for our minister, because health minister Herbert Haupt has always proved a cool head in recent years, no matter how complicated it was, no matter how urgent and urgent the problems in the Republic were. It was Prime Minister who was always present when there were problems – whether it was BSE or other things. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I want to make a wish: No matter how government formation will take place, and no matter who will manage the skills of this country in the future, I hope that Mr. Minister Main will play a key role there and will continue to ensure that our health system remains feasible, manageable and financially viable in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7599	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7617	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before that, I would like to make a few words on the statements made by the previous speakers. I think we have a health care at the highest level in Austria. Our common goal must be that we can continue to maintain this high level of health care, but that must also be eligible for funding. There is no point in dementing, bringing and dementing newspaper reports from this point of view, but I believe that it is primarily up to us that we work together constructively in the Health Committee so that we can continue to maintain this high level of health in Austria in the future. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today's legislative amendment is of great importance in a number of ways because of the current tense global political situation, but also because of the increasing terrorist threat scenarios. The support and support of this bill by all four parties shows that this House has great political responsibility to protect the population. Although it can be said that the real threat – the threat of war and terrorism – is a minor one for our country, it is not excluded and cannot be excluded. We must also be aware, however, that bacteriological and chemical weapons do not know national boundaries. In the course of the high volume of travel that exists worldwide, it is not excluded that, even if these weapons are used elsewhere, they also have an impact on our country. The current event, namely the possibility of a widespread smallpox infection, was decisive for this change of law. The competent ministry and the Federal Government immediately took this risk into account and took precautions by acquiring vaccines. There have been no more smallpox vaccines in Austria for more than 20 years, and therefore it was also necessary to store vaccines in this quantity. In fact, even if they had been stored, the vaccines would have been outdated for a long time and an optimal medical care would certainly not be guaranteed. What does this change of law involve? Firstly, in emergency situations and in disasters, medicinal products and vaccines which are not or are not yet authorised in Austria may be used, but have been tested in other countries and whose use should be considered safe. However, the condition is that medicines or vaccines authorised in Austria are not available or in sufficient quantities. Secondly, The extension of the direct relationship between medicinal products by local authorities from the manufacturer or wholesaler also in the event of disasters, crises and war situations and the acceptance of gifts in such emergency situations is a reasonable and unbureaucratic procedure. This new law is a central element of political responsibility, namely civil defence and civil protection. However, civil protection only takes effect if there is awareness of it in the population and before a possible event the appropriate measures are planned and practiced. Political responsibility has been taken into account here, and the security of people in this country must also be in our overall interest at any time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7671	The next speaker is Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7690	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to address Mr Scheuch's comments in the first place, because I believe that not only are the more correct arguments that are better, but we should already take action. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Some can talk louder!]] I am pleased that an important step is being taken in my first speech in plenary, namely a four-party agreement on ensuring the supply of smallpox vaccine. This is important for the Austrian population. But if I go into the health issue now, you'll allow me a quote, which is: Indifference of every kind is reprehensible, even indifference to ourselves. – It comes from no one but Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That means: no less!]] In the same way, I have experienced the policy, the health policy of the last three years. I have to say this when it comes to really measuring your performance. And when it says “Furth is weakness”, then, I must say, I am weak, because I am afraid that if this course is continued for the last three years, this style of social cold in the form of the fact that we are exclusively concerned about starving the health insurance companies and getting more and more into the pocket of the insured with so-called new reforms. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] No interpretation was made in the past legislative period that one really has the intention of using competence to strengthen the existing compulsory insurance system and to place it on healthy financial legs. If you had really been intensive in dealing with the matter of social security, yes, with the entire health care, then we would not today read daily in the media how devastating the health insurance companies are, for example. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Your indebtedness, not ours!]] Instead of being proud that Austria has one of the best, most efficient and cheapest health systems – from a study by the WHO, in which 1 991 states have been reviewed, it turns out that Austria is in an excellent ninth place – you are always making a policy with one-sided polemics, in which you are opposed to compulsory insurance, and are holding daily unnecessary discussions about self retention. If it says that you can't believe everything in the newspapers, it's not all that's in the newspapers, but I mean that they're well informed when they report that the insured people should pay €5 for the visit to the practitioner in the future and €10 for the specialist, under the motto "May it be a bit more for the sick?" [[Abg. Steibl: What happened to you in the Styrian District Hospital?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] In my opinion, what would be asked today would not be a daily game with the fears of the sick, but something else: We need social peace and fair and equal access to our health care. After all, we are talking about the most important good of man, and that is the health. The policy of the last three years has been disastrous for me, which is happening. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Only through measures by the Federal Government – it would have been good if you had also listened to the Member of Parliament Grünewald – did the cash registers result in a loss of € 185 million, and, in addition, because that is still too little, taxes on insured persons amounting to € 120 million have been decided. This is a policy which They do not want to be true, and to return to Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach, a policy of indifference when it comes to health care and the sick. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call of the abg. Steibl.]] Finally, go to the point of not talking financially ill about the existing good system, but to consolidate it financially and adapt it to the requirements of the present and the future! We have put forward enough proposals that are not one-sided client policy, which is not one-sided party policy. Show that you want reform! Reduce the price of medicines, for example, to EU level! Gain By means of measures, you will limit the “Pediatric Dialogue” project, but also the expenditure in the field of doctors! There are many points, such as price controls on medicines at EU level. You are also committed to combating undeclared work in Austria, because this alone could take billions! This measure alone would amount to € 540 million. We don't need to get people into the bag every day, as you do at the moment. Play You don't cause problems, you finally pick up the problems! So that I do not receive a call for order, Mr President, I now quote an APA issue by the President of the Chamber of the Vienna Medical Chamber of the European Communities, who has just arrived at me. “The head of the Vienna Chamber of Physicians calls on the future government to make a constructive health policy” in the sense of the solidargency rather than “make” unintelligible money collection actions at the expense of sick people. Root continue: “If that’s all the new government is thinking about health policy, and possibly the same thing is going to happen, I’ll explain it for sick now.”
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7809	As the next speaker, Mrs Hellerer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7827	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Allow me to start the discussion of the Austrian health system at the beginning. Austria has a very powerful health system – and this has been stressed by all my previous speakers – which is also very good in international comparison. Of course, finance is in discussion, and the ÖVP is not afraid to attack this hot iron. We know that reforms are necessary in order to ensure the protection of the health system that works so well, even for future generations. Reforms are necessary, as there must be no taboo issues. You have to ask and research wherever you can make reforms. Ladies and gentlemen of the other political groups! You will still have time in this House to discuss this subject in detail. On today's subject, the Federal Law amending the Medicines Act. Secret terrorist attacks with smallpox viruses – this is a horror scenario that is currently frightened by many people around the world. We know that we do not consider this risk potential to be It should be estimated that, of course, panic is not indicated. It is the conflict between the USA and Iraq, which is on the rise and, of course, the comprehensive adaptation of the pharmaceutical law in Austria, in view of the present world-political situation, seems to be urgently needed. Many European countries have already taken precautions for this serious case, which might happen. Bioterror – this is the key word that has dominated our newspaper titles for some time. We are talking here about this change in the law of smallpox vaccine, which was purchased by the Federal Government under Chancellor Schüssel in the first tranche as early as December 2002. Other tranches will follow. It is a smallpox vaccine of the modern, new generation, which has much less side effects than the old-known smallpox vaccine, which would not be available at present, since it is considered to be sold out. Although smallpox has been cut here, that smallpox is only a variant of bioweapons that could possibly be used, I must point out that the smallpox disease is a disease that could catch a very large population in a very short time, as smallpox are highly contagious. It is therefore necessary for Austria to be able to react very quickly and flexibly in a serious case. Regarding the side effects and the fact that the vaccine that is now purchased is not yet approved and finally tested, I would just like to say that the side effects with the old-known vaccine were very huge. Maybe I can talk here on the basis of my own concern. My son, born in 1974, was vaccinated against smallpox at the age of two. There was a very sensitive overreaction. After fever blasts, bladders were formed on the tongue and in the mouth and in further succession on other body parts. He had to be hospitalized for one and a half weeks in the hospital St. Pölten and was there stuck in a very shielded room far from other stations in a lattice bed with leather straps, just as they are used to secure the children in strollers. His hands were wrapped with narrow nets so that he could not scratch himself and hurt himself on the body. The clothes had to be burned, toys had to be disposed of, the family had to be vaccinated again against smallpox. For me, as a young mother, this was a very difficult situation, since consequences at that time were not yet excluded. My son survived this disease without further consequences. At the time, he was one of 1,000 vaccinated persons who responded so sensitively to this vaccine. Since 1977 there has been no smallpox vaccination in Austria. Pox viruses are considered exterminated worldwide. It is of course all the more worrying now that, due to the threats of terrorism and war in Europe, we must be prepared again for possibly smallpox viruses to be brought back to our country and to Europe. I personally welcome the purchase of this modern drug, which has much less side effects than the conventional vaccine. Of course, I hope that it can remain a precautionary measure, that this vaccine should never be used and that it will not be necessary to respond to any terrorist attack. This four-party proposal will certainly be decided here in Parliament. Of course, consent is guaranteed from the ÖVP side.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7892	The next speaker was Mrs Stadlbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7910	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! With this law we make provision to protect the population, among other things, in the case of terrorist attacks or war conflicts. That's quite plausible. And, of course, it is our duty to protect the Austrian population in the event of a crisis. That is also the reason why the SPÖ, together with the other three parliamentary parties, will decide on this request. But – and this is a very big but – is it not even much more important that the Austrian Federal Government, if there is now a new one at last, because – to remember – we have chosen about a hundred days ago and it is still the old one in office, is committed to the fact that there is no military dispute? [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Just now the nail sample would be, and I am really pleased, Mrs Foreign Minister, that you are back here because I have some questions about you and I have had to fear that you may not have the opportunity to answer them as well. Now, during the Iraq crisis, the nail sample would have been given. I am more likely to find it as if the relevant persons as well as the rabbits were sitting in front of the snake and not positioning themselves. Today we have seen and heard that again in the current hour. In all hurry, five minutes before twelve, almost five minutes before a possible start of war, a current hour is held quickly. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: President Bush will wait for Austria's advice! I'm absolutely convinced of that!]] I think that was just why the government's conscience is calmed down. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But the Austrian tradition of an foreign policy, which brings in active peace policy, has been abandoned. Unfortunately, I can't see this way anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Ferrero-Waldner: You didn't listen!]] Ladies and gentlemen! When this war takes place, as with all wars, people will die, people will be injured, people will lose their families and be traumatized for their further life. Short: People will experience infinite suffering. First and foremost, they will be women and children, but also men, whether as military members or as civilians. War is not a suitable tool to resolve conflicts. – This is what the population, also the Austrian population, wants to hear from us and from the Federal Government. But that's where the government stays silent. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: What?]] The message of today's current hour was: Yes, war is a terrible thing, but we can't prevent that, and this, unfortunately, was also very large written. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I only recall the statement made by the Minister of Defence. He said military operations cannot be prevented. And I remember that Mrs Foreign Minister once again did not position herself and wait again for what the others are doing. You take responsibility, and you do not answer our questions: Where are your activities to stop this war? Where are your initiatives? What have you done within the framework of the EU, and above all what are the results of your travels, except the fees? Ladies and gentlemen! With this proposal, we give the population a signal again, which says we ensure that we are prepared in the event of a crisis. If something happens, we've taken care of it. I think that is also important, and this certainly also contributes to the calming of the population, and we owe it to people. But where's your signal, where's the signal, we're doing everything we can to prevent military conflicts? At the same pace that this request was made and decided on, all efforts should be made to prevent this war because it is time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I note again that this request is a four-party request. That means we agree in this case. For me, this request is a symbol, because we as SPÖ once again prove that we are not, as ÖVP and FPÖ so much like to represent, sturd on opposition course and, in principle, reject everything. No, with this request we again prove that we want to participate responsibly in the opposition and become involved. We take responsibility for this country and, above all, for the people who live here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8002	Mr President, Mr Waneck, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, spoke. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8024	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not think it is very appropriate to go to an agenda point where all four parliamentary parties have become aware of their democratic responsibility for the Austrian population, i.e. to a joint request for a health debate. However, I cannot ignore some figures which are obviously used here in space at any time or after popularity, to correct a little or some arguments that, as I think, come from earlier legislative periods, but to put something right. It was spoken of as self-maintaining to the extent of 30 percent in Austrian health care. That's a nonsense, of course. The proportion of personal payments for health care or facilities is 30 percent. That in the field of health insurance is 11 percent and is partly borne by the so-called small health insurance funds of up to 14 to 20 percent, and this has been done for 25 years! Everything else is incorrect in this regard. It is also incorrect that the health insurance companies are eroded or suffering from a specific lack of financial resources. This is also from the past! And how has this been met over the past 30 years under social democratic responsibility? – By introducing 16 self-preserves! I say again: With 16 self-retained, it was tried to clean up the health system, and yet at the end of 1999 it stood in front of a shredded pile. But what has this government brought about? Today, it is also the ever-increasing difference between gross domestic product and income for health insurance companies. That is exactly what we have been doing. In 2001, the income of health insurance funds was 4.7 percent, but the increase in expenditure was only 3.6 percent. That's what I call an increase in efficiency. In addition, the health insurance companies – you can turn it and interpret it as you like – have balanced. I remember: Last year, one of your former presidents predicted an end of more than € 650 million. In fact, it was 38 million. And I am also in favour of the fact that this government has proved social cold, in the backsliding of exclusively politically motivated officials in this country's health facilities. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Gaugg! Gaugg!]] There is also a obvious error in the area of drugs. All that was required here is, please, implemented! In 2000, we had an increase of 4.7 percent in drugs, 5.6 percent in 2001 and 7.2 percent last year. If all the health insurance companies in Austria had participated in the model we designed, it would have been only 5.6 percent. Compared to Europe, the average is well beyond 10 percent. So believing that there are great effects to be achieved also belongs to the realm of fairy tales. Now the law under discussion. I was asked what happened in addition. I can say here that the Austrian Federal Government and my place of business are following the 11th anniversary. The first day of September was aware of the great potential danger and responsibility and from the very beginning helped lead in all areas, especially within the EU. For this reason, more than 600 suspect cases of Anthrax have also succeeded in doing so. And you all know that the vast majority of these cases outside of public interest have been managed accordingly, as planned. It is also taken care of in the other areas: Against cholera/typhus there is sufficient vaccine in Austria, an epidemic should occur. This law is also not exclusively geared to smallpox, it is only the occasion for it, but it is intended that, in the event of a future threat, whatever – and that does not have to be the bioterrorism, it is to be hoped that it is not bioterrorism – there is a provision that can be responded accordingly. It's nothing new. Even so far, a single doctor has been able to request any medicine not approved in Austria on a so-called clinical requirement, if he considered it necessary to treat his patients abroad. This is now possible in the event of a disaster or in the event of a threat. There was a gap to close. In this context, I may still note that over the past three years, the Austrian health system has been able to best maintain a very low financial level, to eliminate mistakes, to improve things – I am thinking only of those discussions that have led us to do so – such as the lack of radiation therapy sites, dialysis, cochla implants, thyrogs and damp Maculade generations. These were sharp developments within the system; we were able to eliminate them all. If you are now still talking about vaccination, then I have to point out that we have been successful – in 2001 the decision was taken, and he is also budgeted accordingly in the main association – that all infants or infants receive a free vaccination by the second year of their life. I think these are all the measures that have shown that we are sensible and correct in reacting and preparing properly. One last word on the smallpox vaccine. Here, too, as with every insurance, the risk must always be estimated or acted responsibly. In Austria, we have established a body occupied by experts, namely the Supreme Council of Sanity with its vaccination committee, the corresponding directives. On a precise basis, a gradual acquisition of this vaccine is planned, which leads to full assurance or, in the event of a disaster, makes it immediately manageable in an agglomeration room. This means that we have a graded, secure supply that goes beyond a longer period than five years, unlike in some countries, where I think it was simply thoughtlessly ordered in a certain panic reaction. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8072	The next speaker was Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8091	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Rasinger spoke in connection with the amendment of the pharmacovigilance law. For this four-party initiative, Mr Rasinger, this is not true, but for the Austrian health system. We want with this four-party request protect the Austrian population. And it is also our goal to protect the Austrian population from the policies you have operated in the past legislative period and which you obviously want to continue to operate in our health system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, are shy of reforms! You don't want to renew this system at all! A carousel of debt, Mr State Secretary, has set you in motion; there is no question of rehabilitation at all! Why, then, had any deposits to be dissolved? Why do the insurance institutions concerned threaten you with the description of the legal path? Can you explain this to us here if you are swinging so great tones of reforms that are supposed to have been made? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your answers to the problems of the Austrian health system, ladies and gentlemen, are to create new access barriers: €5 for the established doctor, €10 for the specialist. What does the doctor's chamber say about this? – Catastropheal, signal in the wrong direction, penalty fee and so on, the comments read. Mrs Rosenkranz, I have listened to you, and you have spoken of solidarity. What is the intention of raising the health insurance contribution to 5% for pensioners? Have you taken a loan from Mr. Frad, who said: The cost of medication is also increasing because older people need a lot in recent years? From the economic point of view, it would have failed to turn the machine off. Society needs to understand what it wants. And do you know what someone from the audience said? – In Austria you must not die! As far as we are, so far are the fears of people in the way you make policy in this health system! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I find the planned breakdown of the General Insurance Institute particularly interesting when we talk about the health system. They plan the demolition to remove a so-called leisure accident insurance contribution in return for all workers. You want to crush AUVA, although you say on the other hand, people need to work longer in the future. In addition to existing jobs, it may also be necessary for people to be able to work healthyly. And an institution that is responsible for this is the AUVA with its services that it has in prevention. Now you want to crush these to keep going your way. They control the same path in health policy as in the pension system: Reductions in performance instead of modernisation, own risk due to private provision. The 30 per cent of our own costs today, Mr State Secretary, are exactly proof of the way in which you are headed. And you want to continue to remove yourself from the principle of solidarity. You, ladies and gentlemen, are already marching to the exercerpt square quoted by Mr Grünewald. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke today about poverty reduction in connection with the treatment of the previous item on the agenda, namely the legislative repair for the compensation allowance for married couples. But you do not want to save a billion € in health policy, but rather to cash in, ladies and gentlemen! And that's interesting, because it's about confiscating the employees, because it's about incassing the Austrian population. From saving where you are asked and demanded, namely in the government itself, there is nothing to be heard of. Mr Scheuch, I would also like to speak to the Federal Ministers. In this Federal Government, there is a vice chancellor and two ministers who resigned in September of last year. They still work today, and it costs us all €233,000. I think you could have proved there that you actually have savings!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8187	Mr Grünewald has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8205	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! State Secretary Waneck spoke and said that it had been operated on inaccurate figures that he wanted to correct. I'll tell you once: No one has said that self retention has reached the order of 30 percent. Instead, it was said that Austria is third in the world, with regard to private payments or even payments to the health system. The public share of health costs thus declined from originally 80 percent to 70 percent. That's the truth. It is also interesting that State Secretary Waneck meant that in the cost of medication, the potential for savings had already been exhausted and disintegrated, everything else would be fairy tales. I didn't have the impression that in the talks with the ÖVP fairy tales were told. But I'm not afraid of fairy tales, which sometimes also have something cruel in them, but they still let you sleep quietly. Rather, I have had fear – and I repeat this – of private revelations by individual key persons within the ÖVP, who would have meant that self-retaining in the order of €250 million would be a suitable means of rehabilitating the health system. [[Abg. Silhavy: How much?]] 250 million €! [[Abg. Silhavy: This is a scandal!]] The demand was that 1 billion be saved – it was in the newspaper, I do not betray secrets from the coalition talks – and one would simply have to divide this apocalyptic sum by four, and then find out what would be saved in the different four areas. I thought it was not particularly intelligent to preach that the Austrian people should be relieved of taxes and then leaned back and said: Dear friends, I've left you with taxes, but for that you pay it yourself and that, and there's something else coming! I say: The taxpayer and the taxpayer is quite “powidl”, where 100 € flow, whether they go to the state as a tax and then you get it back, or whether you pay it yourself to the doctor, for example to the physiotherapists, to the logopaedins, or to the university in the form of study fees, whatever. This already has something to do with horse-sattering – I speak for the rural area. Half of this saving potential would be income-side. It has always been taboo for you to decide on revenue-based measures. I would like to hear the contradiction you are making. Taxation is still fairer because they are all subject to income. Self-retainers meet those who have already been harmed by illness. That's a huge difference! I have already had to explain to you several times that poorer and more remote sections of the population are more often ill and die earlier. It is therefore true of those who have been “painted ” and beaten by life, so I do not find it very fair. In your area to which you have referred, you have refused to take structural measures in the countries through cross-regional planning – performance planning, uniformisation of systems – and you have said: This will not happen before 2005 and 2006, because there is financial compensation, federalism, the black heads of state or country. That was a rather one-sided debate, I must say. To conclude: What has never been debated is the fact that even in the health system start-up financing can bring a return. There are 20 percent of invalidity pensions due to psychiatric diagnosis. But when it comes to psychotherapy on a health certificate, it says: All right, consensus, but pay, you can't do that now! More than 50 percent of the diseases – which will interest the economy – are due to diseases of the musculoskeletal and support apparatus. Instead of taking action, investing and then seeing the return on workers and employers and the state, it says: Consensus, yes, but pay, we don't know if that's possible! I think that's a little dreary. This brings me to the end of my remarks and expresses the hope that this drought period will have an end.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8261	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 15 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – The draft law has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is also unanimity. The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. 4. Point First reading: Request by Members Theresia Haidlmayr, Members of Parliament concerning a Federal Act establishing a General Disability Equality Act (Beh-GStG) (14/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8311	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mrs Haidlmayr. Your speaking time is adjusted to 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8344	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In December 2002, the Greens submitted an own-initiative proposal for the creation of a law on equal treatment for the disabled. So far, we have been alone in calling for people with disabilities not to be treated as disabled people in all areas of daily life. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But I have managed – and I am really proud of it – that today a four-party proposal, namely the request made by Mr Haidlmayr, Mr Huainigg, Mr Haupt and Mr Lap, in which we are working together to create a law on disability equality in Austria. But we do not want it at some point, but it is quite concrete in this proposal that it should be presented to Parliament as a government template by the end of the year. I believe that this is the most important sign that we can place here in this House in the ‘European Year of Disabled People’. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am really very proud of it, because that was my most pressing goal since I was in Parliament, and this goal should be achieved at the end of the year, if not before. This will make the equality of people with disabilities a lot more reality, and discrimination will hopefully cease. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The law on equal opportunities is therefore so important because it also states that discrimination is being penalised, because this gives people with disabilities the right to complain if they are discriminated against. People who have rights are people who have better chances in life and who are no longer excluded from social life. I wish that we would then no longer have to discuss whether children with disabilities should go to the regular school. I wish that we would then no longer need to discuss that deaf people should have a right to the sign language being recognized as a language. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We disabled people will then no longer need to be grateful for being able to drive through public transport, but this is a very clear right: We are also participants in this society, and this participation we will live. We have fought decades for this participation, and we will demand our rights. We will receive a new quality of life, namely the quality that we are no longer from home of people of second class, but people who are looking for and finding their place in society. The non-inhibited simply have to acknowledge that there are us and that we are part of society. [[It is a surprise to the Greens and to representatives of the ÖVP and SPÖ.]] For me, this is really something special, and I have a goose skin up to the ears, because if you've been fighting for such a long time and never stopped fighting, because it's about rights, about our rights, about the rights of disabled people, then I'm glad when I feel that there's movement, and when I see that I've done conviction work that there is consensus in many areas. This is not a matter of course, but it proves that I have the strength to enforce things that are important to me. I would also like to thank Mrs Rauch-Kallat and mention that we really did productive things in the negotiations. I am sure that the disability policy in this House will in the future in any case bear a green handwriting. I think I've enforced this, and I'm very, very proud of that. I know. We will make a little progress in the field of disability. We must not do away with this push that we are doing today, but we must maintain it in the interests of people with disabilities, because equality is simply a human right, and human rights, of course, also apply to people with disabilities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8440	As the next speaker, Mrs Rauch-Kallat is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8459	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Thank you very much, Mrs Haidlmayr, for your thanks, which I would like to return for the good cooperation which we have not only reached over the last few weeks for the disabled, but thank God for many years in this House and in this Republic on disability issues. I have to say – and I have been in politics for 20 years now – that we have succeeded – actually already in the 1980s and, above all, with the “action man” in the late years. Eighty-eight years, which was not undisputed among all – to find unity across party borders when it came to improving the situation of disabled people in Austria. There is discrimination, that is simply indisputable, and there has been a great deal of hard work by many committed people and their parents themselves in order to eliminate discrimination, but we have not yet succeeded in eliminating them all. You can do a lot of things from the law, but the law can't do everything. We have to succeed beyond the legal regulations in reducing the barriers in the minds and especially in the hearts of the people – often it is only boards in the head, and very often it is also ignorance. I am very glad that in Austria we have managed to make more or less possible the integration of disabled children from kindergarten age to school and to the profession – there is still a lot to do – more or less. There are still barriers, but we are there – and all of them are well-willed – because we find an optimal situation for every child. I know what I'm talking about because I was one of those who had to fight very intensively for the integration of their own child. Much has changed since then, but much is still to be done. That is why I am very glad that this decision on a disability equalisation law in 2003, the “European Year of the Disabled”, will be a very important step that the disabled organisations have wanted for many years. It is true, Theresia Haidlmayrist the champion here in Parliament, but I remember that Franz-Joseph Huainigg, who, in my opinion, will still speak here as a representative of the Austrian People's Party, already in 1993/94 – I was responsible for it as a youth and family minister at the time – was tormented in the truest sense of the word in order to ensure that a similar passage entered into the 1994 government programme, whatever happened. I think that this step we are now taking is a very important one. We set a first step in 1997 with the anchoring of an anti-discrimination section in Article 7 of the Constitution. In addition, a working group of affected people in the Federal Chancellery, together with constitutional experts of the hard work, has then undergone a study of all Austrian laws. We have already been able to eliminate serious discrimination in a first step with a federal law, and we now want to take the second and important step. And in this sense, I am very happy that even today – despite the excitements of the last days – it has been possible to come to a joint four-party request, which Franz-Joseph Huainigg will then bring in. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8519	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. Your watch will be set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8537	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The year 2003 is the “European Year of Disabled People”, and we must also take opportunities in Austria in the field of the disabled. We must not only insist on bringing more awareness and awareness into the minds of people in their hearts in terms of dealing with people with disabilities, but also on trying to ensure that a disability equalisation law becomes reality in Austria. That is why I think it is essential and important that we have agreed on a motion for a resolution which provides that a working group in the Federal Chancellery, together with experts from the disability movement, should draw up a law on equality which we will then have to decide in the National Council. There are 800,000 people in Austria who have to come from the edge of society to the middle of society who have to come from the edge of society to our everyday world, and this discussion today is an important contribution to this. We have done a lot in this area this year. There is already a report on the situation of disabled people in Austria – I do not know if he has returned to the House, because he has been withdrawn – but it is essential and important to look at how disabled people live in our society. The motto of the “European Year of Disabled People” is “Get on board!” – Get in! – and I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that you also address this issue. I would like to tell you examples of the lives of disabled people, of people who have disabled people as family members in their family environment, and then you will understand why it is so essential and important that there is a disability equalisation law to give these people the means of penalty so that they can live with us in our society. There was a case in a federal state that a child had to take a recording exam for the kindergarten – the Bub had Down syndrome. But that was not 20 years ago or 30 years ago, but that was two years ago! Some children do it in such a way that their parents are advised not to give them to school – so the school visit is inappropriate – but to teach them the knowledge through a private teacher or a house teacher. This too has not been 20 or 30 years ago, but in the recent past. As a result of my research, I have insisted that the school law, which should enable integration, will not be implemented uniformly throughout Austria. For example, a mother of a child who was delayed in development was advised because the special educational care in the school was that a teacher was put aside for two hours and that teacher then played with the child and walked with him and did not care that the child was supported and encouraged to give the child to a boarding school in another federal country. I think all these are things we need to keep in mind. It must not be that we push these children, these young people at the edge of society. There, too, a disability equalisation law will provide an important tool. In the course of my research, I have met very many relatives and, above all, very many mothers who represent themselves as the true power women in our society. In my opinion, too, support for family members is urgently needed. Family members also need to be able to take vacation off care, they need information and advice and also the opportunity to meet with like-minded people, and they also need support. Their problems should not be a marginal issue, but should go to the center of our consciousness. Therefore, it is also very essential and important that the care allowance is valorised. If you have overcome the obstacles to the school system, the obstacles to vocational training are coming, and there is still a lot to do – my predecessor, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, has already mentioned this. Training places need to be created, and there must be professional opportunities for these young people to enter the work process and prove themselves there. At this point I have to criticise: In the context of the employment offensive, the past Federal Government has set itself a very big goal with the disabled billion, which was actually half a year, but unfortunately it has not achieved this objective, because we currently have 34 000 unemployed disabled people in Austria. There is a great deal to be done in the field of employment. measures put in place for these people, and there is also an evaluation to enable the use of money to be made more efficiently. If you're in the profession and you've done it, it can be like a blind lawyer in Styria or Carinthia: She has not been admitted to the judge's trial because she's blind. You know, the goddess Justitia has bound eyes to judge justly. It is essential and necessary that we adopt a law on equal treatment for the disabled in order to stop such discrimination. In Germany, there are blind lawyers at all levels. A gender equality law was passed there last year. This should also be both an incentive and a claim for us. Dear High House! Lip confessions are too little. Movement is announced – movement for equality. “Get on board!” – 2003 is the right time to get in!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8610	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8628	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mrs Haidlmayr, I must correct you. They said: So far, we have been the only ones – that is what you meant by the Greens – who have sought equality. I really can't let that apply, because all the parties sitting here in the National Council have written equality and anti-discrimination very much on their flags and always fought for it. All those who have to deal with disability issues are aware that there are discriminations and that we need to eliminate them as urgently as possible. In the past, I myself have repeatedly pointed out in Parliament, with very significant examples, how disabled people are still being discriminated against. Another proof that this is everyone's concern is the fact that since 1998 there has been a working group established in the Federal Chancellor's Office, which is illuminating the various legislative bodies according to legal provisions that discriminate against the disabled. Of course, it is a great success to be able to make a common request today, which has an in-depth discussion and then also the creation of an anti-discrimination law. I am also pleased that this will happen in the “European Year of Disabled People”. How necessary it is to create a law on anti-discrimination here, everyone who has to do with the disabled knows that. Mrs Lapp has already given some examples. I myself am the mother of a disabled daughter sitting in the wheelchair, and believe me, every exit, any leisure pleasure or whatever will become a spade run, because you don't know whether you can come in with someone sitting in a wheelchair or not, whether you're welcome in a cinema or not. Let me also give you an example: When I was in a Vienna cinema with my child – we were able to go straight into the cinema room – the artist came and said: You're lucky you're coming today, because tomorrow's another colleague here and he doesn't let a wheelchair driver go into the cinema at all! One who is disabled is still facing these and similar problems today. It is precisely the countries that could do much to eliminate these discriminations in the event area. But the structural barriers that exist are continuing with a normal walk, continuing in the plane, in the theatre and so on. Step by step – you really have to say that – a disabled person is disabled by structural barriers. I do not want to address the obstacles that exist in working life and in education, because this has already been done by Mrs Lap. But I believe that it is really urgent that we take this matter seriously in order to reach a good conclusion. In addition to the legal activities we place here, it is of course also necessary for the population to be sensitized. Laws are one – I think Mrs Rauch-Kallat has said it – but the awareness of the population that disabled people need special help in different areas is equally important. It is also intended to help the “European Year of Disabled People” to raise this awareness, and I am also pleased that there are a number of activities that lead people who are not disabled, to the extent to which they can help disabled people to cope with their lives more easily.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8685	The next Mr Waneck was Mr Waneck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8707	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It's not a lot to add to the saying: One should celebrate celebrations as they fall, and today, I believe, such a day to celebrate a celebration here, even though, as correctly mentioned, it has been discussed for a long time and initiatives have also been taken there, by all the parties represented here in Parliament. The original draft comes almost from the previous millennium, it would be too short for today's needs, and therefore there are already such works, including in the BMSG. There is the Austrian Working Group on Rehabilitation, which, with the involvement of disabled people themselves and their representative organisations, is working on a draft law. I think it is a very happy decision to propose, on the basis of the cross-sectional matter, to set up the working group at the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office. Finally, as a doctor, let me say to all you are sitting here and not being disabled or feeling normal: There is no ordinary human being, there is only in the textbook! Even if you make a blood sample and you count your normal values, you will come up to 80 or 120 percent at most, but never to 100 percent. Every person has a small disability somewhere, most of them don't notice themselves, often not the others, one is less, the other more. From my professional and from my private experience, I know that not only can you have innate disabilities, but in a very short time can you be a self-affected person, and that should also guide you in all your actions. I congratulate you on this decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8743	Next item is the report by Mr Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8761	I hope I can speak loud enough, because I have a slightly quiet voice because of my health condition, which is thanks to God by a sign interpreter. Friends of me say that I take the “European Year of Disabled People” a little too seriously and “bastle” my disability so that it becomes even more – which is not necessary at all. It's my virgin speech. I am pleased that I can be here that I have been invited by the ÖVP, by Wolfgang Schüssel and Maria Rauch-Kallateninge to work as a member of the ÖVP. I am looking forward to this new task and I also feel the responsibility that is being transferred if you are invited as a self-affected person to participate in the legislative process and in the design of the framework conditions. I am looking forward to this task. [[General condolences.]] This item on the agenda is about the new Handicapped Equality Act. This request by Theresia Haidlmayrist is already somewhat outdated, and it is therefore very good that a working group be set up in the Federal Chancellor's Office with the involvement of self-affected experts in which a bill is to be drawn up. It is an important step that all four parties are in favour of it and carry it. I would also like to thank Resi for being a co-compatriot in all these years, a land roll-down, and for demanding a disability equalisation law on every appropriate and inappropriate occasion. [[in the direction of the Abg. Haidlmayr]] [[General condolences.]] Now in the “European Year of Disabled People”, this law will come, and it should include “accessible building”, saying that barrier-free building also means humane building, that is, fair for parents of disabled children as well as for parents of children in general, just as for older people. It is also about reorganising mobility in terms of transport, creating professional access so that it no longer happens, for example, that this blind lawyer from Carinthia should not become a judge. There is a lot to be done for blind people. For example, they are not allowed to sign contracts under the current legal situation, but in some cases they are not allowed in museums and other public buildings – in the meantime very well in Parliament. Internet access, Internet access is also very important. What is equally important to me is the recognition of sign language. The sign language is really a great language, a three-dimensional language. You can express everything from simple words such as “I love you” to more complicated words such as“ somnolence talks. ” [[General cheerfulness and condolences.]] And there is also a certain word of words when one takes names such as “National Council President Khol” or “National Council President Fischer” or Pilz. [[the sign interpreter makes appropriate hand movements]] [[general hustle and bustle]] [[the sign interpreter makes the movement of a fish]] [[general hustle and bustle]] [[the sign interpreter indicates a fungus]] [[general hustle and bustle]] – You don't know exactly, it's an egg swab or a fly mushroom. [[New general happiness and general condolences.]] My name is Franz-Joseph – and I was very pleased!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8886	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8904	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not easy to say something at the end of this first reading, but since Theresia Haidlmayrheid has asked me to say something specifically about the integration of the disabled in schools, I still do. I believe that in this regard we have a legal situation in Austria, in particular until the eighth level of school, which is quite satisfactory, but in practice we must always look at whether what is stated can be observed in reality. We also know, however, that we need to make changes in the continuation of integration, especially at the ninth level, where this is only possible in the field of polytechnics, and beyond. In the discussions with Minister Gehrer, too, I have found that we have already approached in understanding what should be made possible. There are still problems in practice. For example, it is of course interesting for politicians where the funding comes from for models that make further measures possible here; for the persons concerned, this is not really relevant, they want these offers to be available. If, for example, projects such as in the agricultural specialist school in Weyregg are no longer possible, because the sources of funding are not available, this is still a massive problem. The continuation of the integration of the disabled is absolutely not about how often it is claimed that everyone and everyone should be able to do all the diplomas up to the Matura, up to the degree programmes, but it is about everyone and everyone getting the best possible personal opportunity. It is important to work on this. Here too, in our discussions, we have not been able to solve what we wanted, but there is, I believe, progress. We all know that there are still spatial barriers in practice for the physically and sensory disabled, that schools are still not equipped in such a way that all such access can be guaranteed. Because we see the sign language here: I know from many discussions with those concerned how difficult it is to enforce the right to school in sign language. We also talked about it. There are differing opinions, especially on the part of those who are hearing and teach deaf people and who consider that not so necessary. However, we know very well from those concerned how necessary this is and what discrimination it is if one cannot enforce this right to education in the sign language. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I would like to thank you for being able to conduct the entire debate with an interpretation in the sign language. – Mr Norbert Pauser, thank you for your work! [[General condolences.]] Since we were so fast today and it was quite difficult that this was still going on in time, Kurt Grünewald helped to bridge the five minutes until the sign interpretation arrived by quickly speaking again on the subject of health. Since you did not notice this, it seems that Mr Groenewald's speech was not so bad.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8967	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 14/A to the Constitutional Committee. 5. Point First reading: Request by Dr Evelin Lichtenberger, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the regulations on road transport 1960 (StVO) (19/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9004	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The speaking time is adjusted to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9030	Thank you very much, Mr President. – It’s not the first time today that I’m talking about a truck night driving ban without exceptions for low-noise trucks. It is not the first time, I fear that I will encounter rejection at ÖVP and, above all, the liberals with this demand, but I can only tell you the following: If you take into account the development of scientific data on this subject, unfortunately you have to note that the situation today is more dramatic than it was five years ago when it was ten years ago when it was 15 years ago when this demand was first raised by the Tyrolean transport initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen! The pollutant situation, especially in the alpine valleys – and this is not a purely Austrian problem, but that concerns the entire Alpine arc – but also in the large urban areas threatens to derail and is partly already derailed. According to our measurements on the measuring point network set up by the country of Tyrol and the federal government, there is a clear evidence that pollution is being exceeded in the alpine valleys, which approach us to the most popular European cities – in terms of the pollutant situation. And that in an area that does not have urban quality, which is the last end of rural space and which lives to an insignificant part of tourism, and where, as it is already happening in the Inntal, the discussion in the process with company expansions or new settlements already detonates whether its emissions will be sustainable in this valley. This means that there is no conflict with the economy, here stands an extremely growing and from my point of view very unproductive growing industry against all the others. And the arguments that one should not limit the economy can no longer be applied in this case with regard to the ban on night driving. Why I now demand a night's ban on trucks is also clearly demonstrated by the series of measurements in recent years. The latest results show that the pollution pollution caused by the specific meteorology, but also by the whole dynamic that is developing there, is eight times higher at night and is eight times stronger than it is during the day. The problem of noise has to be addressed again and again. We have “lamed” valleys, we hear at 1,500 meters of altitude the motorway – and that in a tourist area! Ladies and gentlemen, you must pay attention to this if you want to argue against my request again! In addition – and this is a further aggravating of the situation, and it is very up-to-date – the fact that the existing restrictions on heavy traffic are weakening and weakening. The so-called Copenhagen compromise on transit will bring us a strong increase in heavy traffic. There will again be a very massive shift in transport from Switzerland to Austria. The Brenner-Tout is under threat. There are always, even from our own Austrian economy, applicants and defendants who want to abolish this restriction and do everything for it, with the support of expensive lawyers. The new road cost directive, which is currently being discussed at European level, will not save us from a massive increase in transport. The cost shear goes on! Even today, the trucks only bear 17 percent of the costs they cause. And if you are already talking about the price question, you also need to talk about the next perspectives: An increase in diesel prices is of course also relevant for heavy transport. If one hears sounds going on again now that the sparklers these Additional costs are to be paid by additional tax gifts, then anyone who lives in the Inntal leaves the hair to mountains. Ladies and gentlemen! Instead of closing the cost shears and using them very clearly, the new plan is now obviously again the one to access the cars only more closely and to find a nice and elegant way out for the trucks. Ladies and gentlemen, I warn you: If you do, you will cause another increase in heavy traffic! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The night's ban without exception for low-noise trucks brings great relief. The example of Switzerland shows that there are no economic disasters. The Swiss have been doing this for 70 years and actually live quite well with more efficient logistics in heavy traffic. If you want to apply now, we will realize the bans on trucks only through the Immission Protection Act Air, so if the pollutant limits are exceeded, I have to tell you: First of all, the whole law has two years in advance. So, first of all, we have to cross the boundaries of pollutants, then it takes two years to put in place measures. It's too long. Secondly, as a politician, I feel committed to the precautionary principle: Do not wait for something to happen, but act first! All the programmes of all the parties here in Parliament – I could read them to you for half an hour now – include passages to reduce heavy traffic. Ladies and gentlemen! These national measures are urgently needed because we are under such pressure at European level and because we need to restore our credibility. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I will read to you the passage from the law which authorizes us to pass such a night-travel ban. This is § 43 para. 2 of the law – I believe that this passage should be crucial for the further debate: ‘In order to avoid risks or nuisances, in particular by noise, smell or pollutants, the Authority shall, by regulation, where and to the extent necessary to protect the population or the environment or for other important reasons, by: (a) for certain areas, roads or roadways for all or certain types of vehicles or for vehicles with certain loads’ – see sectoral driving ban! – to ‘permanent or temporary restrictions or bans on transport,...’ I would like to point out once again that the law here speaks of “has to be passed” – and not that, if perhaps, we all agree with those who are supposed to put some small measure that will not save us. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll appeal to you again: Support You're asking for this! We need a package of measures against transit, and the ban on night driving is a central and important point for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9140	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9159	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lichtenberger, it is true that it is not the first time you have tabled this request, but it has already been submitted four or five times: by you, by Mrs Moser, by Mrs Petrovic, only: The arguments have not become better. Above all, you have to say: They do not really help to solve the problem. This is the problem that you think you can solve any problems of transit with such a punctual measure. Unfortunately, they do not solve them in this context. Let us note that, while the burden of traffic is still high, we also note that measures in the European Union are constantly being taken to make trucks more noisey and harmful. But only in January 2005 with the Euro-5 truck will a new generation of low-noise and less pollutant trucks come. What would be a general ban on night driving, ladies and gentlemen? – A complete congestion of traffic in the morning and in the evening, when professional and commuter traffic is anyway the biggest! And this would also result in an even stronger burden throughout the day – and this would not result in fewer pollutants from transport as a whole. Therefore, representatives of the Tyrolean economy have just recently said that the truck ban now imposed in the winter months on some parts of the motorway, at Wörgl about, has proved to be a total flop that the number of trucks transiting through Tyrol could not be reduced, nor did the pollution burden. [[Calls of the Abg. May. Worm]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must also take note of this. Furthermore, it has been shown that the argument ‘reduction by night-time driving ban’ is not valid, because scientific studies have shown that a 110 km/h passenger car has the same noise development as a 60 km/h truck, so a speed limit as is currently required on the Inntal motorway. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's not true!]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, has also been clarified by the Constitutional Court and, for example, when the ban on night-time driving on the Loferer Bundesstraße is lifted, it is precisely because a car at 100 or 110 km/h develops exactly the same noise as a truck at 60 km/h. [[Abg. May. Worm: The problem is the pollutant load...!]] Let us not forget these facts, ladies and gentlemen. These apply. – Anything else, we would follow your proposal, both unconstitutional and appropriate traffic policy and a totally unrealistic transport policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we need is a common solution. What we need is also a national shoulder closure on the transit question. There's nothing to be blamed for. I would expect you from the SPÖ and the Greens as well as from your party leaders: Pilgrimage to Berlin, go to the German Minister for the Environment Trittin, to Foreign Minister Fischer, also to Chancellor Schröder and tell him that he should finally, at European and international level, support the position of Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Trittin, fisherman and also Schröder should finally show understanding of our concerns and do everything to ensure that a good and right transit system that Austria has been trying to achieve for years! [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] These parties and this red-green government were those who have always opposed Austria on this question! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[New calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that we really acknowledge a national consensus here, that we are working together and that we take the appropriate steps together in the European Parliament: just as Mr Rack and Mr Swoboda have done very well there, as did the Greens. Let's leave the little hack on this question behind us! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes, then start right away!]] It is a matter of national concern – and not of small-cared political haxilbite!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9276	Mrs Lichtenberger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9297	My actual correction: Mr Kukacka claimed that it was mainly the German Minister Joschka Fischer who opposed the Austrian transit scheme. I'm actually correcting: In the final phase of the negotiations it was primarily the Italian transport minister Lunardi, who has blocked solutions – and still does so! Mr Kukacka, if you are talking about not breaking a small dispute, I can only answer you: Why don't you finally start with yourself?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9330	Next item is the report by Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9352	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Kukacka mentioned earlier the word ‘fuch’, I agree that the entire transit policy of this government was a coup. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are currently experiencing a super-GAU for Austria in transit policy, Mr Kukacka! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Who negotiated the 1990 transit contract?]] And now, after the European Parliament's decision has been taken, Austria is threatening a traffic link of more than 80 percent in transits! [[Abg. Donabauer: Who has negotiated this? Now take care of yourself!]] According to this Decision, there are no more restrictions. [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman: There you have missed a lot from the SPÖ!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] I am going to quote Mrs Foreign Minister later, who has also interfered and finally gave up terrain for Austria! [[Abg. Dr. Ferrero-Waldner: That's not true at all!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This disaster over the extension of the transit contract is the result of years of inability of this ÖVP/FPÖ federal government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Do you know what you are talking about...?]] [[Call to the Freemen: Memory Sworn...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! After all, it has been known for years that the transit contract with 1. January 2004 and would therefore have been the most urgent negotiation of this Treaty. But what has this Federal Government done? In this context, I call Federal Minister Schmid, Federal Minister Forstinger, yes, this whole government, to start negotiations on this subject in good time. And then you started to negotiate exclusively with the EU Commission. There has been no discussion at all with the individual representatives of the countries. Instead of lobbing all other Member States, Ms Ferrero-Waldner, Ms Riess-Passer and Mrs Verkehrsminister Forstinger have already been introduced to the EU Commission a year and a half ago. And what happened there? – It was completely denied any ceiling in the transit contract! These three members of the government simply refused and clearly believed that they could negotiate a better position for Austria. – So that was the first gross mistake. However, they also sent out completely false signals from the Coalition Government to Brussels, to the Member States and to the EU Parliament, when Austria, although calling on the European Court of Justice to exceed the maximum limit on transit, did not apply for a postponement of the further issue of transit and ecopoints. – That was eye-catching – and deception of the Austrian population, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Reichhold was completely unhappy, although at least he tried to control the damage somehow, but in the summer of last year he suddenly and without any reason lowered the Brenner-Maut, although he could not obtain any concessions for the extension of the transit contract, despite his apparent reluctance. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the Federal Government, which is still in office, which is supposed to be in employment, was also incapable of presenting an Austrian model for the transit agreement in a non-discriminatory manner more than a year ago by EU Commissioner de Palacio and then by the EU Council of Ministers. The “high point” was then: This federal government had to admit to the EU Commission and the Member States that it had used insufficient statistics to calculate transit traffic. – So, in good Viennese: a blamage for Austrian politics! Your behaviour must also be described as impossible in the final stage of the negotiations: First, the EU Transport Council called on Austria, together with Italy and Germany, to seek a solution. Then, in the course of a visit by the Austrian President of the Federal Republic of Italy, Federal Minister Reichhold suddenly negotiated with his Italian counterpart Lunardi alone, which has already been mentioned today. A “breakthrough” was then mentioned, and a written record was never drawn up. Germany has been completely face - to - face. There were no talks at ministerial level! Mr Kukacka, to send Members to Germany to intervene, is not true either. That's a government task! It is already a poverty testimonie for the government to say: Would you have been there and helped with it? We all try to reach a good solution for Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: It was once!]] At that time, ladies and gentlemen, when Federal Minister Reichhold said that he had made a “breakthrough”, this Austrian Federal Government has already marched towards election campaign and has actually been unable to act – and this has remained so to this day! In this case too, this federal government in the EU is hardly taken seriously. From today's point of view, the Danish compromise, which provides for the fall of the 108% limit, but includes an extension of the ecopoint system by a maximum of 2006, is quite a positive approach. The fact that particularly low-pollutant trucks, Euro-4 classes, for example, or the Euro-5 class quoted by you, Mr Kukacka, will be released from the ecopoint obligation from 2005 onwards, can only be discussed: It all came too late. It is also threatening that this transit contract will not apply to all Austria. The SPÖ has been insisting for years that, in accordance with the EU White Paper, sensitive zones are finally being negotiated for the whole of Austria – and that not only the Alpine region, but also the Eastern region, which will be very affected by EU enlargement and which is absolutely not linked to the East, is part of these considerations. The north-east of Vienna needs to be built urgently, as urgently as the North-Autobahn. In particular, railway tracks need to be expanded. In order to be able to finance this, it is urgently necessary to define sensitive zones for which a higher toll can be collected; there would be an urgent need for cross-subsidisation towards the railway. The 80 percent increase in freight traffic in the coming years – which is to be expected – is certainly not to be done via road haulage, but via rail. Otherwise, there would be a total traffic crash in eastern Austria. I should like to ask – whoever will always sit in the government in the future – to work together with all the parties here in Parliament to work out a solution that is good for Austria on all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9510	The next speaker was Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9528	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder, it is already strange what you are responsible for and are finally trying to throw yourself out of the responsibility you had at the time by the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder]] [[Call to the SPÖ: “Traped” has it been!]] What you've tried here is really not helpful. We liberals want measures that are actually taking place in these areas. Mr Kukacka, to the ban on night driving in Tyrol, which brings only 2% of the reduction, because there are so many exceptions, I must say to you: You should read a lot about this, because there was a four-party request in Tyrol. – However, this was not implemented by Mr. Landeshuptmann van Staa. As a Tyrolean Member, I welcome the initiative of the Greens and I am also in favour of a general ban on night driving. I think it is undisputed that we are going to conform to this question with Mrs Lichtenberger. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! All measures aimed at improving or protecting the health of our suffering people must be taken seriously. My personal attitude to a general ban on night driving is positive, but the current proposal is a bit too one-sided to me. We liberals wish for measures that will become effective when they are necessary. However, I believe that noise protection measures are a matter that is also a matter of regulation, but they are more important to reduce the pollution that the population is exposed to on a daily basis. The load from air pollutants is constantly measured in Tyrol. Measures are urgently needed because of the regular overrun of the limit values for nitrogen dioxide. Recent studies have shown that children and young people in particular suffer from health damage and that there is also an increased risk of cancer in some areas. The Immissions Protection Act (IG-L) provides, among other things, that certain air pollutants are continuously measured. In the case of a limit set there, the causes of the exceedance shall be identified. Measures should also be taken to help reduce air pollution concentration. The IG-L also includes the legal basis of the night driving ban as an impeding measure. Ladies and gentlemen! The goal must be to put all this across the board and into sensitive zones throughout Austria. At the same time, legislative innovation is needed, leading not only to an increase in efficiency but also to a process acceleration. There is a need for legislation when the population of Austria is at risk. This means that if the limit set is exceeded, immediate action must be taken. A general or sectoral ban on night driving would only be a short-term instrument in this context. In the long term, we must be able to reduce the burden of transport by means of additional measures. Our Minister Reichhold is exactly the right man for this. In the past too, he has repeatedly shown that he is always on the side of the suffering population on this issue. And on top of that: There are a large number of resolutions in the Tyrolean Landtag which pursue the same objective. We, too, through Mr Wilfried Tilg, have called for an extension of the ban on night driving in October 2002 or a reduction in the exemption. Since the ban on night driving in Tyrol is not efficient enough and too many derogations are granted, there must be a different regime. The state government in Tyrol is unable to guarantee the protection of our population. It is therefore necessary to launch initiatives at the federal level and to take immediate action. Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that the experience in this field in Switzerland is positive. In Switzerland, the ban on night driving has existed for 60 years; the economy has adapted to these requirements. – It cannot be that free movement of goods is being carried out on the back of the Tyrolean population. None of us would like the destruction of jobs – or that the economic location of Tyrol or other sensitive areas would be threatened. However, the topic of transit and the resulting burden is the subject of the Tyrolean population. Surveys in Tyrol have shown that more than 70 percent of the population of Tyrol consider this a particularly important issue. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am working for an efficient solution, for a solution that can be implemented very quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9603	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9622	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We have discussed all these questions very often here, and I admit that I too am very sad that we have not really gone much further in this matter. But I can correct some things. On the one hand, Mrs Lichtenberger, Mr Eder, I would like to remind you that it was not the ÖVP/FPÖ government that concluded this transit agreement that had a transit agreement with, as history has already shown, completely false figures. [[Abg. May. Worm: And now we do nothing but...!]] This transit contract is also due to the fact that this has not really taken place for a long time. And when this finally began to take hold, this Treaty was broken by our partners in the European Union. We had to take note of this with great regret and great strangers. [[New call of the abg. May. Worm.]] Since then, efforts to extend this Treaty in accordance with the Preamble of this Treaty have been in progress at all levels within Austria. That all of this is not easy, however, we already recognize from the fact that the contract had to be broken first so that such negotiations could at all come about. I believe that we are on a rather good path, and I believe that a better solution than it was agreed in the European Parliament can be reached on the issue of ecopoints for our negotiators, and I am convinced that everyone has every strength to make such a solution, and in this context I would like to thank Mrs Foreign Minister in particular, as well as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must also be aware, however, that the Ecopoints Regulation will also take a maximum extension by 2006 and that we will have to find a truly permanent solution. Now there is a request for a general ban on night-time driving, and I would like to say: The bans on night-time driving are to be considered, for a number of reasons. On the one hand, because emissions that occur during the night in the event of inversion weather conditions – a weather situation that prevails in almost all nights in Tyrol – generate three to ten times as much as the same emissions per day. This means that, even though all trucks that didn't drive at night would drive, the Immission, that is, what our children, which all the people in us in Tyrol inhale, would still be reduced. For this reason, on the one hand, there have already been sectoral bans, Mrs Colleague, but on the other hand there are exceptions – exceptions in those areas in which it is a question of providing the goods of the daily needs consumed by each one of us in the shops for sale, but also of goods used in our neighbouring countries. The exceptions also concern companies which in part have difficulty surviving in our remote region, thus ensuring survival. I assume that, first of all, this is our commitment to our European neighbours, we must choose the relief funds, even if they also lead to success. And I am in favour of re-examination of the sectoral bans on night-time driving, which have already been adopted, and may also be extended. However, I am opposed to a general ban on night-time driving for trucks over 7.5 tonnes, because I believe that this does not take all the requirements into account to a sufficient extent. But much more important seems to me that we – and I wish we had to do this together – have to work on a follow-up to the transit agreement. Mr Eder, the transit agreement is now valid throughout Austria. Tyrol has done the homework to argue why Tyrol is a sensitive corridor. It's obvious. I believe that it would also be important for the other regions in Austria to provide factually comprehensible arguments with which we in the EU can demand factually justified exceptions from EU standard law. I therefore call on colleagues in the other federal states – I know that there are several such areas – to make the most of the arguments that can be justified as soon as possible. So far, this is only the case in the Alpine arc. Furthermore, I hope that the new road cost directive, and in particular the extension of the railway in the Unterinntal valley and the immediate construction of the Brenner base tunnel, will enable Switzerland to impose general bans at night, namely a much larger share of heavy traffic at last on the rails! If we then need accompanying measures to shift transport as soon as we finally have the corresponding rail capacities, we will certainly also put them together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9686	Mr Reheis has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9705	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If we stand here today and hear what the ÖVP has to say about transit, then you have to with only one of the following: We stand today – unfortunately, we have to say – in front of a traffic-political pile that has caused blue-black. Federal Chancellor Schüssel at the head, Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner and Transport Minister Reichhold have this to answer! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] It is far and wide, Mr Kukacka, not a follow-up to the transit agreement in view. The truck lobby has free drive through our country, increasingly burdening the population, our environment and especially the sensitive Alpine region. One can certainly speak of a disaster around the transit contract extension. This is a result of your years of inability, you have to say. They have now been responsible for this policy, and we are facing the failure of this policy today, and traffic continues to roll! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With us in Protocol 9 of the EU Accession Treaty, 15 European States have committed themselves to a permanent and sustainable reduction of NO emissions by 60 percent from truck transit through the Republic of Austria by 2003. We now have 2003 and NO emissions have increased by 18 percent since 1999. The nitrogen dioxide values, smog and ozone values reach record height. Only in the last few days have recent measurements at the measuring point of Vump at the A 12 resulted in multiple times in an excess of the limit value of NO2 emissions. This is proof that these conventions and promises have not been taken and have been neglected. These record values for the so-called nitrogen oxides really give rise to great concern. For years, ladies and gentlemen, no such high values have been measured, and the experts clearly see truck traffic as one of the main causes of this. The truck transport is responsible there as a nitrogen oxide emitter. The existing steering instruments have added to this, for example, sectoral driving bans, and the most important requirement is to call the shift of truck traffic to rail. But in order to be able to implement this, ladies and gentlemen, we need determined transport politicians and committed managers, but committed managers are also a thorn in the eyes of this federal government. I am thinking of Hans Lindenberger, the manager of badhin, who, for example, has enforced the sub-inntal-trass against the toughest political resistance, especially from blue transport ministers, who has taken citizens' initiatives seriously, and has implemented this parade project of Unterinntaltrasse as the heart of the line between Munich and Verona and has brought it to maturity. He was muttered out of office, ladies and gentlemen! For eight years Lindenberger managed the BEG alone, and now he was appointed by the blue transport minister as a co-management director close to the FPÖ in the person of Alexander Luzin. to the side. Without Luzhins Yes, the long-standing Alone Managing Director Lindenberger should hardly be allowed to make any decision. This is Politmobbing first class, ladies and gentlemen, and this is against an excellent manager, whose professionalism, its enforcement ability, its expertise and its commitment to the expansion of the Brenner railway axle are probably undisputed. What does this Luschin, set up by Federal Minister Reichhold, have to offer? – FP sewing and numerous secondary jobs. Alexander Luzhin is active in several supervisory councils, the Economic Union of Vienna, the ÖBB railway cluster, a software company and investment banking. His presence, ladies and gentlemen, reported the "Tyrol daily" in the issue of 20. February, had been flawed. – No wonder so many side jobs! But in any case, the exit of Hans Lindenberger, who has done an excellent job for railway development in Tyrol, will leave a huge gap to be handled by you. It is to be feared that the project to bring trucks from the road to the rail will be delayed for years in Tyrol. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! That's what I'm Their black and blue transport and personnel policy. It's a shame! That's why you probably can't look into the mirror anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9780	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9798	Mr President. High house! Of course, I am trying to take this request seriously, because the topic of transit is a very important topic for us Austrians. As a Salzburgian I know as well as you, as a Tyrolean, and as a Tyrolean, what it means for the resident population to have this transit wave. But first of all, as regards the transit problem, I think that this proposal is empty, and secondly, it is a request that applies to Austria as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to the fact that a change in road traffic regulations still means a lot more. For example, a change in road traffic regulations regarding a ban on trucks over 7.5 tonnes means that entire logistics chains will be smashed and that there will be no fresh goods on the markets. That means the truck ban at night! You have to draw attention to this too. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Have you ever been to Switzerland?]] It should also be noted that the morning shuttle traffic and the additional truck traffic that would start in the early days would lead to a total chaos. Mrs. Colleague! This request is perhaps well meant by you, but it goes completely empty. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Have you ever been to Switzerland?]] Do you know what happens if, in the early days, the truck traffic were to arrive at the traffic of the car? – That would be a disaster! Do you also know that the ecological approach is completely wrong? - He's completely wrong. In the morning congestion occurs a much higher exhaust gas concentration and environmental pollution. You're always thinking about the transit theme. This is absolutely clear to me, and the whole discussion has so far gone in this direction. However, I would like to make it a mistake because the road traffic regulations are known to apply to all Austria and not only to transit routes. If you also write in your explanatory statement: “overall protection of the people’s night’s rest”, then I must tell you that I also wish to do so, but then we also need to talk about the railway, Mrs Lichtenbergerer, because the railway transport, especially in the Alpine valleys, leads to an immense burden. No human is discussing in this context a ban on trains at night – of course not. Traffic is just reality. We can no longer guarantee the comprehensive protection of the night's rest, we have to take note of that. If I were all cynical right now, I'd say you'd have to talk about the Schanigarten rule. If it was only about the night rest of the population, there would be a lot of things we could discuss. – I do not want to tell you anything but that your request is very sweet and very nice, but simply goes beyond reality. Ladies and gentlemen! Or the topic of noise excitation by roll-off and air resistance noise: It's just the railway that only produces such noises. So I would not take this argument in your place to demand a truck night-time ban. I believe that this request is one-sided for the reasons I have mentioned. He concerns only areas that we unfortunately cannot regulate God with this measure, keyword transit. It is shortsighted, and it is ultimately impermeable in the sense of the economy. But, Mrs Lichtenberger, I would recommend to the Greens, especially your colleagues, oillingers and mushrooms, perhaps to deal with some of the things they understand more about. You will have a very good opportunity to do this tomorrow: The opera ball will take place tomorrow along with the demonstration that has now become an institution. I recommend to the Greens – because you have a high level of competence – to play out your ability of competence tomorrow: with your friends who are now drawing march plans looking for paving stones. They know each other. And Mr. Ollinger will also be with us again, as will Mr. Pilz. I am curious about where these rulers will march tomorrow, because there are the peace marchers, there are the randians against black and blue – and there I have the serious suspicion that you will run there – and there are also the opera ball demonstrators. I recommend you to be active in what you understand, and this is, for example, in these demonstrations – but not in important areas that concern the entire economy!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9867	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. The clock is set to 5 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9886	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. High house! It is our duty to protect and protect citizens from environmental influences caused by noise and exhaust gases. Much has already been said in advance, but it is of course true that there is a lack of solidarity in Europe on this issue, especially when looking at the 1994 transit treaty. I wish that there would be more reliability by means of international regulations. As you can see, this is almost a Tyrolean topic, starting from the applicant to the speaker list, on which almost only Tyroleans stand. Therefore, we can also point to a little experience from Tyroleans. Tirol had the courage to introduce a sectoral ban on night driving over the winter months, and I experienced its effects on operating visits. I'm only allowed to take a little extract out of this. The reduction of pollutants has not succeeded to the extent that we would have wished. There are, of course, in early travel on the way to the workplaces of traffic jams, and the flow of traffic on the right track is also affected. Many companies have lamented, especially in terms of logistics. One may well be able to introduce something, but of course this is associated with costs. If you take a three-shift operation, then of course this one again has disadvantages, so it is; there are disadvantages there and there, which means additional expenses due to the sectoral night driving ban. We must find a solution to this problem together. We cannot make mutual debt allocations either because they will not solve this problem, and a look into the past is only helpful if it helps the future. Austria as a country in the centre of Europe is an economic area that is competitive, which must remain that way. The domestic economy is the guarantee that we have jobs, and the comparison of work statistics across Europe makes us sure. We must therefore develop a strategy and not impose a ban on night driving throughout the country, because that does not solve the problem. We are a country in which the economy, tourism and citizens form a unity. We must not make the country worse, as some do. A night's ban in winter is an experience in Tyrol. But one will also look into the future and will gain knowledge from it. The comparison with Switzerland may be a little far-reaching. Switzerland has invested a lot of money in rail infrastructure development in the last ten fifteen years and is now able to transport 80 percent of the goods on the rail and 20 percent on the road, and in Austria it is the other way round. So we need a bundle of measures: We need to bring heavy traffic to the rails, we need in Tyrol the rapid construction and drive of the construction of the Unterinntaltrasse and the decision and realization of the Brenner base tunnel. But we also need a railway that is ready to implement modern logistics. We need a mandatory installation of diesel filters for both trucks and cars. And we need a total reduction in pollutants, starting from the fire of the house to all the other areas. Sectoral driving bans for sensitive zones are a part, will be there and there a possibility, but are not overall the complete problem solution. So we do not need a panic, but we need true lobbyism of the base, of the communities, of the country, of the federal government and of the EU. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] We cannot solve this alone, Mr Wittauer. We Tyroleans will be a model and a pioneer in Europe and will therefore contribute part to the problem-solving process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9946	On the Rules of Procedure, Mr Magistrate, Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9964	Mr President. I would like to suggest that you come to the Stenographical Protocol on the statements made by Mr Mainoni. In my opinion, by agreeing with the speakers of the Greens the competence to speak to the transport sector, he pointed out that we should feel more competently removed in the vicinity of violently prepared brick yards, a clearly verbal breach. I would ask you to consider this.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e9989	I'll be happy to do that. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e10010	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal should be supported in so far as health effects are demonstrated in the event of noise pollution or load caused by transit traffic as a whole. That is why we are called upon to take effective measures quickly to combat transit pollution. However, there are two problems: on the one hand, an inability to act and on the other, a Federal Chancellor who is exclusively concerned with selfish power issues. This is also the reason why there has been a standstill in Austria for six months now. And this is also the reason for the fact that Austrian influence in Europe is increasing. The defeat in the question of transit and ecopoints serves as current evidence. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we support all efforts to improve the North-South transit. However, they allow us to point out that European enlargement is taking place in the eastern region, i.e. in a region which has had to accept more than a fivefold increase in truck traffic over the last ten years and which will have to expect a further increase in traffic by 2010. A forecast for the East Railway speaks of a triple. In view of these developments and forecasts, I fear that the Federal Government will not take sufficient account of these facts, and that is not reasonable for the population concerned. In comparison, the Burgenland has carried out its transport policy tasks. Dig. The road development, the railway expansion was forced under the head of state Niessl as never before. Over the last two years alone, public transport funds have doubled. To the general transport plan, I can say that important claims from Burgenland are fulfilled. However, in the case of central rail projects, there is no need and funding in any way coordinated. The solution to the transport problem will undoubtedly only succeed...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e10049	Deputies! It's 3:00. Either the final sentence or I interrupt you, and after the debate on the urgent question and the question debate you can continue. It's yours.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e10065	I come to the conclusion: The solution only succeeds if we put the goods on the rails and also ensure the financing of them. There is no doubt that tolls will also be necessary. The cooperation between Lower Austria, Burgenland and Vienna prevents a transit relocation and a division of the regions.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e10098	Mr President, you promised us a final sentence. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 19/A to the Committee on Transport. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Josef Cap, colleagues at the Federal Chancellor concerning the unnecessary burden on Austrians by expensive fighter aircraft (122/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e10137	Ladies and gentlemen! We arrive at urgent treatment of the written question 122/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e10325	I give the floor to the author, Mr Dr. Cap, for the reasons of the urgent question – according to § 93 no longer than 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e10343	Mr President. High house! – Yes, Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Lentsch: Federal Chancellor!]] That's the main person. This and its course of action must also be discussed since it has joined the public and has announced that the black and blue government is disparate and that new elections are to be held. It is a matter of questioning what the backgrounds are, and it is true that a little bit of a standstill in the Republic since the 24th century. November to question – actually since September, you have to say, and that is now about six months. That is why I want to explain why it is so urgent – it is urgent for us, because we are about the Republic, we are about Austria, we are about the population, and we do not have as much time as Mr Bundeskanzler, who can turn one round of honor after another, before perhaps he tends to introduce a government to the House by means of a declaration. We have a different understanding. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You know, there's a question that's been asking more and more recently – Mrs Thurnher has asked her in the "ZiB 2" as well as Chancellor Dr. Schüssel – the question: Why did we actually choose? In one of these rare open moments, which are also owned by the Federal Chancellor, he said: Well, if you look at the new National Council, you'll see the difference to the previous legislative period! This is actually a poor answer. That Mr Fassleven of the ÖAAB understands that the Austrian interests are being done and that, where there is a shift in power for the ÖVP, one also takes on board that one has no government for six months, I already understand, honourable Member Fassleven! It's clear to me! That's the way you think about the matter. I understand, sure! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But a very short look back is worth it. I recall the debate in the Black and Blue Government I, for example, on the question of a tax reduction or a tax reform. As the gap between the FPÖ and the ÖVP became more and more marked, there was “knettle field”. Today I say in retrospect: In fact, the events of Knittelfeld were provoked by the Federal Chancellor. They were actually provocative. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Find consultants in his area will have come to the conclusion at the time: Well, if there's a fight now and if we do new elections, then that can certainly lead to less blue and more black! – This has remained in his ear. For more black, of course, he has a weakness, which will especially welcome the back bankers, because they are sitting right here right now, but they should be particularly sensitive, because once his tactility goes down, then the back bankers will no longer have a banker to be able to sit back there. They should bring a bit into the discussion process when it comes to further policy in the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer calls for an intermediate call.]] Mr. Klubobmann Schweitzer, agree with the few calls for call, because if the development continues this way, it is no longer certain whether you will be over 4.5 percent in any new election that – as always – will not be excluded from what is happening here at the moment! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I wonder where do you take the sun's sting around this time?]] So this has been provoked so that this government can stop its work at times. It seems to be that way. It pushes this thought. That is why the thought is also urged, which is now at the heart of the will, if you really pretend to want to work for Austria. Then I have to remember that after the election day there were exploratory talks, there were also rounds of negotiations, but one could not actually realize that there was really a will to find a functioning government for Austria as quickly as possible. Yeah, I'm even going on: It was not, in fact, the intention to bring about a stable government, an actionable government, a reformable government and, Mrs Foreign Minister, especially a weighty government in the European Union. You don't do that. You say it doesn't change anything anyway if you're there. I'll tell you: It's not indifferent! It is important whether there is a large government in the European Union that can actually occur there. [[Abg. Steibl: Well, that's a level!]] If I look at these conversations that have been conducted here, I have to say: They weren't led with serious. To do this, I have to say: Negotiations have only existed with the Greens and with the Blues! There was no negotiation with the SPÖ, these were exploratory talks. When we then decided that we would now be ready to conduct negotiations after the investigations, then suddenly came the emergency brake of the Federal Chancellor, who then said in a press conference after the last exploratory discussion – how did Andreas Koller of the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of 23. January 2003 referred to at the time? He referred to this sentence as the “bonapartistic sentence. ” –: We don't have any conditions! – After he had already presented ten points as conditions and in fact the six questions were also six conditions. So it was called: We don't have any conditions! – Anyone who does so does not want to speak seriously and does not want a government – in this case with the Social Democrats. This was clearly stated here once. Then the talks came from Black-Green. I still see tired faces with the greens today. [[General hustle and bustle.]] But they're not dissatisfied faces, I don't know why, but that's what you're gonna be able to justify yourself. Then the paint was actually finished. Now you should give the ÖVP a bit of a laugh, because then the paint was gone, because then suddenly came into the media a comment on the situation, which suddenly showed it different. ==References====External links== February: “Wolfgang Schüssel still seems stunned by the incense that has ascended around him.” Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! Conjugation is your subject area, as you will better know yourself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But you know, when the incense rises, Mr. Federal Chancellor, you not only get breathing problems, but then you don't see them exactly because these incense swabs cover up some of them, the relation to reality then becomes increasingly difficult. But that's your problem when the incense rises. If it becomes too little, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, then you have to give up a bite so that more incense is back there, it is your job as Secretary-General to take care of it. Further comments – you certainly like to read the daily newspapers – were: Rabl, “Kurier” of 26. year(s) “Can’t it be that a bowl in this situation is more the problem than the solution?” – This is a very interesting question, by the way, that should be discussed in detail. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] You should also discuss this for yourself whether you, Mr Bundeskanzler, are also a problem for yourself. Then Mr. Rabl writes the following sentence – I can't even quote it all, I don't have the time –: “This coalition” – he says “Black-Blue I” – “was Haider’s creation, not Schüssel’s strategy.” – A great sentence, let alone “described”. I repeat: “Haider’s creation”! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, there are always greetings from Klagenfurt to remind him of the political finally. Now again, very productively incorporated into the current discussions, probably useful, better before than afterwards, or even better before and after, I would say. Yeah, it's just going to bring in so real dynamic. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Then Rabl continues to write – I have to read more text from the comment than just a sentence –: “The chancellor and election winner was assigned to government by the Federal President.” – You should repeat that every now and then so that it doesn’t get forgotten, because it’s been over three months, that’s what you have to say, it’s been a long time. But this is also a clear job assignment. Until now, Wolfgang Schüssel has not fulfilled this requirement nearly. Focus nearer, not close, says Rabl of the “Kurier. ” Not me because you look me so angry: Rabl of the ‘Kurier’. Norbert Stanzel, he's a little fixed on the FPÖ, then writes on 19th. February, again in the “Kurier” – you can’t read yourself enough at the “Kurier” –: ‘Now the blue grey is threatening to return.’ I repeat: “Now the blue gray is threatening to return.” – I quote: ‘This means: Incalculable, especially in Europe's policy. Great announcements that do not follow actions. A disputing functionality class, which has lost the best political talents.... Forecastable defeats in the next country elections, which will give new food to the leadership and direction debate.” So it goes on and on, like a report from the ghost railway. You know, it's creeping when you read that, but that's the opinion. It has been the opinion expressed here. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Do you have something to say yourself? Reading the paper we do it ourselves! Joseph! Reading the paper we do it ourselves!]] Mr Klubobmann Schweitzer, I have a caricature here, it is of course difficult to repeat caricatures in word; it is again the “curier”. It's crazy! Mr. Pammesberger describes a conversation in four caricature pictures between Chancellor Schüssel and Herbert Haupt. The bowl is imperial, imperial or papal – I do not know, Madame Rauch-Kallat, what you prefer. But at least first question, kneeling at the head – that seems to be the level of conversation; I'm just describing what's going on –: ‘Tax reform? Temelin? Beneš?’ Answer from Herbert Main: “Never heard!” Second question – these are the examination questions before there are negotiations –: “Haider, the kneeling fields?” Answer from Herbert Main: “I don’t know.” That’s good. Third question – not uneasiness, Custodian asks the question –: “The world’s best chancellor, kicker, cello player?” Answer from Herbert Main: “Wolfgang Schüssel!” – In this reply, the main wears a tablet on the chest with the label ‘ Superstar bowl’. The first answer is on the table “Take us!” and the second answer is on the table “Super ÖVP”. – I have to say: A good coalition partner, well done! Last question: “The Best Minister of Finance?” – Head: ‘Karl-Heinz Grasser’ That says main out of deep conviction. This is the description of a cartoonist. Don't be angry with me, it must be brought in, it's one of the biggest daily newspapers that basically describes this here. [[Call the ÖVP:Punish! Painful!]] Do you know what's embarrassing? – I can tell you now that after this standstill we now have an unemployment rate of 7 percent that we have economic growth in Austria, which is not as bad as it has been for a long time. It is embarrassing that the income of workers in 2002 is below the value of 2000. It is embarrassing that the lower levels of income were heavily burdened by a wave of increases in taxes and fees. It is embarrassing that in the case of investment, growth and so on, Austria has left the trail of overcrowding. – I can list that to you! It is also embarrassing that we still have the highest tax and tax rate in the history of Austria at the moment and yet no sustainable budget recovery has been achieved. It's embarrassing... – It's not cheap, it's really expensive what's happening there – it's expensive for the Austrians! [[Abg. Prince: Cheap is...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That these damping effects of this restrictive policy lead to less growth, less investment, less income, more unemployment, less tax revenue and additional expenditure on unemployment and pensions, that is the truth for which you now have to stand. I wonder, Where is your sense of responsibility, a party which, by the way, has been a founding party since 1945 and has influenced this country when we have a six-month standstill, is spent three months with conversations and with cosmetics, and at the end of the day, “Black Blue II” comes out anyway? How seriously did you actually have the talks with the Greens and with the Social Democrats? Then you also want to explain to the Austrians, we didn't want to, they didn't want to. Who's to blame? – Only the Secretary-General believes that the shell is not responsible for the absence of a government and that blue-black has not long been planned. That's the question! That must have been really the plan – because it seems to be the cheaper partner, because what the 100% ÖVP policy you want to implement seems to be able to continue at a zero rate! In all the self-moderateness that characterizes you: Imagine yourself in public and say: Reform will, of course! Reform will is to implement 100 percent of the ÖVP proposals! 95 per cent, this is already dampened willingness to reform, less than 90 per cent, oye, that is involuntary, totally non-reformable. True is what the General Secretariat of the ÖVP says, everything else is not true. That's not true! No, no, no, We have leased the truth and wisdom to 100 percent. Only we know what the only path that makes the Austrian population look like. Whoever does not bow to this is not a coalition and government partner for us. There the word “partnership ” in this attitude of mind is in truth lacking in place. – You have to let yourself say that at last! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now it's going on. Now I recommend the “Kronen Zeitung” of 26.2.2003 for a change. I quote: “Post, train, petrol – all more expensive!” There's still something about it – that's important! –: ‘The elections are far from over.’ And then, as I said, “Post, train, petrol – all more expensive!” So keep getting into the pockets of the Austrians – that's your policy! What I have heard from the negotiations, but in the agricultural sector, where your own clients are, the billions are rushing across the sides. Where is your willingness to reform? Where, for example, is the agricultural sector? Your willingness to reform or in the field of state and administrative reform? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The interesting thing is: You're talking about a reform stand, you've been responsible for three years now, six months now, and then you're still coming up with the reproach – that was so wonderful when we were sitting in the TV discussion – with Bruno Kreisky, and the moderator said: Excuse me, that's 35 years ago! I can only say: Come on. It was even easier with Marc Aurel, that was 2000 years ago!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e10558	Mr. Dr. Cap, you have spoken 17 minutes of your speaking time and you have not yet said a single word on your urgent question concerning “necessary burden on Austrians by expensive fighters”. I do not give you the call, but invite you to comply with the Rules of Procedure and to justify your urgent question. - You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e10588	I am very happy to do so because, according to Minister of Finance Grasser, there is now a need for consolidation of €8 billion. Imagine: They want to face the zero deficit, yet at some point they have a small tax reduction – if that really happens, it's 13 billion € – and yet, against this background, want They still buy the Eurofighters, in any case the Eurofighters, only the most expensive fighter aircraft. Of course, that costs € 2 billion. This will, of course, increase the burden on the Austrians. That is why we ask ourselves the question: Why, in fact, do you fail precisely on this issue concerning the acquisition of Eurofighters with the Social Democrats and the talks with the Greens? What's the background? Next point: Why do you oppose it when we say that we here in Parliament want to have a minority right to set up committee of inquiry? – This allows you to examine, among other things, the purchase of the Eurofighters. Why don't you want to? What's going on? Why are you so stubborn? – It can't be a mere fixation, it must be a little bit more. In this urgent request, we therefore ask these questions that move us in this way, namely the question of the need for consolidation and the question of the background why you are so persistently doing and wanting to purchase the Eurofighters. Are there any pre-contracts? Is there any of this yet? Is there any way to get rid of it? Should, possibly, compensation claims? What's going on? Why are you so opposed to light coming into the dark? Do you know what we would be particularly interested in? – This famous economic platform, these nice, friendly entrepreneurs, who love to buy private fighter planes so that they can rent or lease them to the Federal Government. I'd like to meet her. Where are these altruistic entrepreneurs who like to do this? But I also want to know – and that is why we have asked these questions – what kind of legal nature this is, how it should work. I really expect to do this, because I think you tried to get the voters around a little on the nose when you said: These Eurofighters won't cost anything! Where do these two billion come from? When they fly, will they be brought by the Christian child? Where did they come from? Of course, that'll cost you a little bit. It will cost something to receive, the infrastructure, the airfields, the training of the pilots – all this will cost a little. But you're trying to talk to the people, the whole thing is going to be zero. – Of course not at zero rate, and there must be something we want to know! I'll tell you: If your answers are not really fruitful and convincing, we will again make a request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. We want this to be examined at last! It cannot go on that way that government formations are made dependent on the fact that one says a 2-billion waste project, the purchase of Eurofighters, the fighters, the warplanes. In view of the current foreign policy situation, we must, on the other hand, take a firm position! Therefore, you can assume that if we make this request today, we are highly interested that you will also give a sufficient answer. You are obliged to do so as a Federal Chancellor – whether it be this “shrink government” that has been in a standstill for months!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e10656	In response to the urgent question, Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Dr. Schüssel, spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e10677	Mr President. High house! I am very glad, Member of Parliament and Klubobmann Josef Cap, that you will give me the opportunity to make a public statement on your accusations. I hope that now a lot of people will be able to look at themselves, first-hand – you also demand the public of the committees – and thus take a look at the climate between the political groups. Did anyone really feel that the clubman of a state-bearing party is speaking here, who really wanted to enter into a partnership with us? - I don't think so. [[Call the ÖVP: No, nobody!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Mr President, your speech has been out of the open. For those who wonder how such coalition talks are going, it has been added: Josef Cap always has that way in the negotiations – just like that! – Talks like here, and this is actually a bit depressing in this situation. I have to say quite openly: In recent months and weeks, I have had very good and factual discussions with the representatives of all parties. ==References====External links== November: three possible cooperation options to engage in intensive and serious discussions with each political partner to see: How far are we going? Is there so much common ground that a stable, serious, solution-oriented government can build on it? I had the feeling – and there was really another tone – in the negotiations with Professor Van der Bellen, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer or Herbert Haupt was another solution-oriented approach. I have to say quite openly: This polemic does not really deserve the space of the House, because we should work together to get the best possible solutions seriously! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Please give us notes!]] Now very open to your statements some truths from my point of view, subjective truths. – You ask me why it took so long!Unknown term type: "%s".? Have you really forgotten that the Social Democrats needed two months to get through, to enter into negotiations at all? ==References====External links== February needed. I've respected that. I don't think it's about speeding, speeding, speeding over everything. No, no, no, If you want to enter into a serious dialogue with others, you have to take your time. That's exactly what I did. You need to be patient about each other. I personally believe – and this was also the interesting thing – that time was not lost, because we have a far-reaching consensus today for 80 or perhaps even more percent in the analysis, whether this concerns the question of Europe, foreign policy or the question of stable state finances. The latter, by the way, is not a subject that can be baffled, it is important for the next generations. One cannot spend more in a family or in a state in the long run than one takes. This principle is and remains important, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It can, of course, be put out of control in a difficult situation, as a result of the difficult situation. That is quite clear, we have done the same, but as a principle it remains important and correct. The question of the need for a pension reform also seems to me undisputed in the analysis, on the question of the way there we were in many areas of differing opinion. But that can be carried out honestly and without polemics. I think it belongs to the political-cultural style that one carries out this discussion a little differently and focuses on the subject. I have nothing against you, and now you don't need to high-style me to the enemy image, and I'm not big enough and not important enough. I am a normal democratic politician, just like anyone else here. We should get used to thinking and talking a little less in enemy images than you've done here now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have agreed in the analysis that Austria's health system – one of the best in the world – needs to be sustained, especially because, based on the longer life expectancy and also on the need that every individual – including the elderly, the poor – should have access to the top achievements of medicine, we simply need savings: in drug prices, in structural reforms that are long overdue, and, of course, in a mixture of contribution or self-retaining elements. In this regard, we were already a few – although we have not yet reached a consensus – in the discussions, when this has been expressed again in the parliamentary session with the Dreschflegel or with the wood hammer. Let us stick to the objective style that I think has been excellent in the negotiations. I'd like that anyway. The same applies to Austrian security policy, ladies and gentlemen. You, the opposition, invited the National Security Council to invite him. I did it, and you were right about this: The Iraq crisis is one of the most serious external crises to be dealt with globally, both in Europe and thus in Austria. But how serious is it to you that you ask me or the Minister of Defense or the Minister of Foreign Affairs, what we are doing, what we have done to prevent, for example, the transport of troops by land through Austria, or how far we are able to take control of the Austrian airspace if you are not at the same time saying B and are willing to protect the Austrian airspace? – This is a serious question, which has nothing to do with populism or election struggle, that is, state policy, Dr. Cap! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I noticed the following: Whenever it could have become interesting between SPÖ and ÖVP, just as at the push of a button a Greek-antique choir of warning voices has been turned on. It was particularly sad that Upper Austrian SPÖ chairman Erich Haider first strongly criticized his own party and Alfred Gusenbauer for negotiating with us at all, in order to implement the switch in a lightning-like way and to call as massively “scandal!” that the ÖVP negotiates with the liberals, for example. – What, please, is now the logical position? What should be possible at all? I say it quite openly: In my opinion, someone who says A should also say B. I have the feeling that Alfred Gusenbauer wanted to negotiate as well as Professor Van der Bellen or the other team members who accompanied him, or the liberals who are still negotiating with us, but the second and third series or powerful country groups or country organizations have contributed a lot to the fact that there is no such cooperation. I have to say – and this also belongs here, if you already draw an honest balance, openly stated –: In fact, we are negotiating – and this is an answer to your question – not for very long. We have been negotiating for a month, and in this one month we have thoroughly explored how far we can get with the Greens, how far we can go with the Social Democrats or how far we can get with the Liberals. It is quite clear that there have been some massive dissertations among the former, and I respect them too. I'm saying that quite openly. There are no bath feelings to say this openly. We have just failed to reach agreement on some points, for example on the date when we begin to abolish or raise the early retirement age. We have not been able to agree on the SPÖ proposal, which can also be read in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” today; I would not have made it public otherwise. They have proposed to intervene massively in existing pensions, up to 10 percent. [[Abg. May. Worm: From what height?]] One can discuss this, I just think that this is simply not compatible with the protection of trust. On this subject there was a clear dissent, and this is a very clear one, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the field of public service – you call the client policy, Josef Cap; that is not true – I would like to say: I have great respect for the achievements of Austrian officials, and I would like to be careful in this area. Yeah, I'm getting to the savings targets, but I think that the 25 percent that the SPÖ president once mentioned is far too high. This is unrealistic and unfulfilled for Austrian citizens without losing quality. But I believe that we can achieve a lot here together through structural reforms. The Austrian Convention, which is intended to review the tasks of the new Constitution, could make a very important contribution here, which, in my opinion, could mean a very big throw – hopefully a cross-party. Third point: You claim in the urgent request – you have not dared to say this – that Austria is worse there today than it was three years ago. To this end, Josef Cap, as the founder of the request – but you did not come to that again – I would simply like to present some facts to you, and then we can discuss the facts about whether, after three years of one of me, a government led by us, Austria is better or worse. Here are the facts: The gross domestic product in 1999 was 197 billion €, today it is 216 billion €, which is an increase of almost 10 percent. Better or worse? – Better, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Jobs: In 1999, we had 3.1 million jobs, 50 000 more today. Better or worse? – Better of course, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They have led the income development. I show the comparison with red-green in Germany. The German gross wage development from 1999 to 2002 shows an increase of 0.3 percent, which in Austria is a plus of 1.3 percent. The comparison can be seen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For example, poverty reduction. The minimum pension for married couples in 1999 was €841, today €966, which is an increase of 15 percent. Better or worse? – You know the answer, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Next example: The tax rate you keep holding in your mouth. Yes, it is true, in 2001 it was high. Last year she was almost at the level of value under the Ministry of Finance of the last SPÖ. Today it is already two tenths below. We are therefore in a better position than in 1999, and it is also important to maintain this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For the first time since 1945, there was a trade surplus last year. Is that better or worse, Josef Cap? – I mean, this is a great success for the domestic exporters! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the development of the stock exchange – think of all the stock exchange crashes internationally! –: The small Austrian stock exchange has proved to be excellent among the best in the world. Better or worse? – We are well in the international comparison! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Or: the ranking, the popular ranking – you can smile about it, but of course it's also an international location destination somewhere –: Austria has improved by 11 places in the last three years and has overtaken Germany – according to the World Economic Report you hopefully know; You've been quoting from it a few times. I call the global number, and it's absolutely soothing for us. She's better, not worse, dear friends! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the productivity development of the last ten years, Austria is the best country ever, far before Japan with 17 percent, the USA with 43 percent, Germany with 51 percent. Rate of survival of young entrepreneurs: The Chamber, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and all those involved have really succeeded: The survival rate of young entrepreneurs after five years is 72 percent. Austria is thus at the forefront worldwide, far ahead of Germany with 63 percent, Sweden with 59 percent, the USA with 50 percent. We are not just better, we are the best, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I keep quoting. Investment in education: In the OECD ranking Austria reached second place with an average of 6.4, France, then the USA and so on. So if you really want to tell the fairy tale here, Austria is worse today than three years ago, please check it out on the facts! We are not perfect in many areas, that is why we want to oppose it deliberately: even more in research and development, more in infrastructure, even more in education, but at least with a balanced right and with a balanced opinion. We know very well that we need to become more citizen-oriented in the field of state, in the administration of slimmer, stronger. But I personally believe that we in total, all in all, have an excellent performance, not only in the last three years, but thank God in the last decades since 1945. This has made Austria strong, and we have been able to improve it a little over the last three years. They claim that there has been a standstill in the last six months. – Josef Cap, the truth is that we have had to cope with the serious consequences of the greatest flood disaster since human thought. Furthermore, with the help of the social partners, whom I would like to expressly thank in this context, we have put in place an economic package of €1.1 billion, which has helped the young, the trainees and, of course, the flood victims. In this context, we have been able to enforce for the first time in the history of the EU, at EU level – where we are so isolated, Josef Cap – for the first time in all, € 134 million for flood victims in Austria. This government has not hesitated, it has not taken a vacation – it has acted, it has ruled and has carried on a lot of positive things for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have implemented the Uni reform. These days, the university councils are being established throughout Austria. We have achieved a unanimous resolution at the Copenhagen European Council on the extension of the ecopoint regime in the transit chapter, which is also mentioned here. We have achieved it – and I would like to congratulate Mathias Reichhold on this – that the Transport Council of Ministers on New Year's Day has already made the hope of a Transport Council compromise visible. It will be a hard piece of work, I know, but we will fight – the transition and the new government will do so. The same was true of enlargement. In the time of the provisional government, the Copenhagen European Council fell. There we fixed the EU enlargement, put everything out of dispute together, and we also fixed the financial framework for the whole period and secured the future of rural areas and farmers by 2013. If all of this is indifferent to you, Josef Cap, as I take away your mining game, then that's your thing – it's not indifferent to us, I tell you very clearly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now allow me to comment on the individual questions you have raised to me. The first question relates to the figures submitted to you by the Minister of Finance in December 2002 in the context of a comprehensive report on the development of federal finances between 2003 and 2006. This report, which has been received by all parties, in particular the applicant for this urgent request, sets out the starting points, the assumptions for the forecast, and it outlines the development of the quantitatively important expenditure blocks. There you will find a detailed description of the activity expenditure, including those for the field of national teachers, and pensions for 2003 and 2006, assuming that the current legal situation remains unchanged and no reform measures are being introduced. Family allowances, financial compensation, financial debt, the budgetary problems of unemployment insurance are shown there and the budgetary balances relevant to the budget are shown. You will also find the problems in the areas of ÖBB and related to SchiG there, as well as the liquidity needs of the settlement water management fund in the years up to 2008. In detail, the budget accounts are based on very specific key data: growth and, and, and. I do not think I need to repeat this now because you have made this report in writing. It would also take too long, and I cannot accommodate it in my given time. According to this report, the general government deficit in Maastricht in 2003 would rise to around 1.6% of gross domestic product. So if there were no substantial reform measures to be adopted, the Maastricht deficit would continue to rise in the following years. The need for consolidation – that is the answer to questions 2 and 3 – naturally stems from the deficit target of the individual years and from the work programme of the new Federal Government. It is known that coalition negotiations are taking place. I am sure that in a few days we can also present our agreements here. Now on the question of the interception hunters. When did the Federal Government make the final purchase decision? – The Federal Government – I am referring to questions 4 and 5 – held the Federal Minister for State Defense on 2 February. In July 2002, under the ongoing procurement procedure, it authorised further steps to be taken to award contracts and to enter into negotiations on the specific arrangements, the options, the quantity, the financing variants and the delivery conditions. On the side of the Ministry of Defence are all preparations for the conclusion of a purchase contract. However, we have deliberately delayed this decision so that the new Federal Government or the new Parliament will of course retain the sovereignty of decision here. As far as the number of passengers is concerned, we have reduced the number of aircraft in the light of the flood disaster. We went back to 18 – with one option to another six planes. Questions 6 to 11: There are very specific figures which are not announced in view of the still open procurement procedure and in the interest of the bidders. You know, this has been discussed intensively in the Council of State Defense. The operating costs have also not been included in the cost-benefit analysis because they are only information of the operators which can only be understood during the operation of the aircraft. Besides, that's no question to me. There is no doubt that the Minister of Defence has the competence to carry out this task. Question 12: What are the operating costs for the Dragons? I can answer this, although not responsible, as follows: For 1 400 hours per year, an average effort of €12 million, including VAT, was the last result. On the question 13: This is a project which has several financial years under budgetary law. This requires a federal authority of its own. Question 14: In the government programme of February 2000 – which is a very interesting comparison – the following is held between SPÖ and ÖVP – I would like to read to you from the coalition agreement that was then negotiated: ‘The re-purchasing of airspace surveillance aircraft shall be carried out as cost-effectively as possible. The Federal Ministers for Defence and Finance will jointly develop the conditions for buying in time for this legislative period – in other words, in the now expired – “to succeed, within the scope of the possibilities of the overall budget, but without additional burden for the Federal Ministry of Defence.” This is very interesting, because in fact it also exposes your argumentation. You've always been for the interceptors as long as you've been in the government. Hardly are you in opposition, you have rotated your position by 180 degrees. – So much on this question. Allow me now to comment on question 15: According to my information, no interim solution has been offered to the Minister of Defence. In any case, I do not have any other information. On question 16 the following is to be said: There is and has been an evaluation commission in the Ministry of Defence, which involves all the relevant departments. This assessment committee has expressed an overwhelming majority in favour of the Eurofighter. It is correct that the group leader has expressed a personal opinion outside the procurement process. Because the grips are a little cheaper in the acquisition, he said that this would be preferable in terms of the Ministry of Defence's low budget, without seeing the offset business and the overall view. – But the evaluation committee, which is responsible for technical matters, has clearly given the Eurofighter the priority. On the question 17: The Republic of Austria has currently not concluded a purchase contract with the EEAS for purchase. There were contractual negotiations, but no conclusion. On the question 18: In the event of an exit from the procurement project without a compelling reason, all tenderers involved in the proceedings are in principle entitled to claim damages under the rules of the culpa in contrahendo. After that, the negative interest in the contract, i.e. the total effort of the tenderers in connection with the making of tenders, is to be replaced. Questions 19 to 21 should be answered as follows: The possibility of different types of funding will, of course, be examined first of all in the course of the procurement process and then, second, when the new government stands, because then clearly, the departmental competences assigned to the persons and then the work can be done. Allow me, at the end of the day, to make a few comments on my predecessors. Bruno Kreisky was born on 7 May 1885. It was explained literally in September 1981 – quoted from the ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’ – that: ‘Possible hunters are a genuine neutrality protection measure.’ Or: Vrannitzky – this is after all Her former party president – in the "Abendjournal" on 7 November. June 1988: “I am not really aware of being a glowing militarist or an iron-eating commissioner, but we cannot, in an environment where all countries take the defence seriously, push it down to the level of a regional policy plot, because the only real consequence of that would be that we would not be taken seriously as a state with our national defence all over Europe, and for that I am not available.” – Quote Franz Vranitzky. – There is little to add to it. You know what impressed me? – In 1984, the then SPÖ President and Federal Chancellor Alfred Sinowatz decided to intercept hunters in a coalition with FPÖ. A few months later, a large coalition was held between SPÖ and ÖVP. You need to know that the ÖVP was against the Dragons at the time because we wanted a more modern and better equipped aircraft for our safety. Nevertheless, it was completely out of the question that Alois Mock, as Vice Chancellor and Minister of Defense Robert Lichal, naturally implemented the requirements and the international and state obligations of previous governments. A little bit of this state-political spirit beyond the political party, I wish myself on serious questions – right now, where we stand on the eve of a perhaps wary debate about Iraq. The security of the country and our citizens is too serious to make it a cabaret.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e10948	Thank you very much, Mr Bundeskanzler. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Gusenbauer was the first to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e10976	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If one has heard this reply from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany at all times, then there has been little answer to the specific questions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This does not correspond to the style of dealing with questions from Members in the House. I say this in particular, Mr President, because you have started to ask: What does this House deserve? . I can tell you what this House deserves in any case, namely a federal government which is at least able to answer questions from Members correctly and precisely, and which does not take measures here. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: A better opposition!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, If you have heard your so-called success balance in recent years, Mr. Bundeskanzler – you have listed what has gotten better – then you ask the question: That is why the entire government talks or negotiations are actually accompanied by a key point, and that is everywhere: Great reforms are needed, it is necessary to reform Austria!Unknown term type: "%s".? I ask the question: Why does this need for reform arise when everything has been as wonderful as you represent it? Why do we need a health reform to ensure funding today? [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: 30 years of socialism!]] [[Abg. Smoking Callat: 30 Years of Socialism!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – I can tell you, Mr Fassleven. Here in the House you said that the staff of the main association had been exchanged, because that was a loud reform brake, and there had to be new people making health reforms. These health reforms have been seen by the Austrians. The only thing that you have brought together is an ambulance fee that has failed as a health reform, and precisely for these reasons we are faced with the need for major reforms, because not everything has been so wonderful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are talking about the situation in the education sector and are rightly concerned about how we can finance individual things – and I think this is a legitimate concern – then I must tell you: It is worrying that we are among those countries that, as the OECD confirms, have the highest expenditure in the field of education, but that, after the only international comparative study, namely the PISA study, we are not in the third place, but in the tenth place. That is to say, there is a huge need for reform in the field of education and no reason for self-satisfaction at the beginning of this new legislative period. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We are talking about where reforms are needed everywhere. One of the reasons why reforms are necessary in the pension area is also the following: In the last legislative period, you have always transferred a billion € from unemployment insurance to pension insurance. As unemployment insurance funds are cleared, there is still an additional need for consolidation of pensions. However, it has not just been created today, but it is the result of the inactivity of the last three years. That is why the situation is so dramatic, and therefore there is an inner contradiction between your representations that everything has been so wonderful, and the need for us to urgently need reforms in Austria today. This truth is all reasonable, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They said – and I listened carefully –: Let's compare gross wage development between Germany and Austria! – You said the truth: Gross wages have actually grown more in Austria, also due to the good negotiations that workers' representatives have had with entrepreneurs, and this has, of course, been the result of the great increase in productivity you have referred to. But what counts for the Austrians, namely that which remains net in the wallet, has unfortunately not increased, because your burden policy, which you want to continue unhindered now, of all that has been grossly generated, has not left the Austrian workers net. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can ask the 320 000 people in Austria who are unemployed today if they are better. But not only are you asking the 320 000 unemployed, but you are also asking those who are at work whether they are doing better today. – The great majority will tell you: It is true that we need to work more today, it is true that we have become significantly more productive, but unfortunately we do not remain our fair share for this because the federal government's burden policy takes us away. That is why I say to you: We all want the Austrians to do better, but this must work differently than in the last three years, because your policy has not contributed to this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You are right that we have reached a wide range of consensus in the analysis of the problems. This is indisputable for me. However, if you analyze a problem, different answers, and these answers give information on who has a bigger or a smaller contribution to make. If we decide to implement a pension reform in Austria, which will last not only for three years, but also for the thirty-year-olds who guarantee that they will receive fair pensions in the future, I believe that it is absolutely not unfair to say that all those who receive particularly high pensions today – more than 33 000 S per month or around € 2 600 – should make a solidarity contribution. If anyone is a retired minister or Chancellor today, he will not fall out of the crown if he has to make a maximum of ten percent solidarity contribution to the future security of pensions in our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Oellinger and Mr Brosz, for their support.]] I am in this context for fairness. Let us remember: In the case of accident pension taxes, people who received between € 1,000 and € 1 300 per month were removed up to 25 percent of their income. I emphasize: 25 percent! No tears have been shed on this, but if those who now receive maximum pensions are to make a ten percent contribution to ensure that the pensions are secured in the future, then is the Constitutional Act all of a sudden?- Oh, my God! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The answers to the challenges decide whether to use the level of justice or whether it is only about protecting individual stakeholders. – We from the SPÖ stand for justice in this House, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the argument concerning interceptors: I am sorry, I was not convinced yesterday when Mrs Gehrer said that if the Iraq war comes, the Austrians will already see how important it is that we buy the Eurofighters. I do not know, Minister Gehrer, whether in the case of unauthorised overflights the sole heart of the purchase contract would be particularly impressive and whether this would create a different sense of security among the Austrians. But I can tell you what would impress me: If Austria, as a country in the centre of Europe, could decide to participate in a common European security and defence policy, and if the costs of defence in Europe were to be distributed in such a way that they correspond to the effectiveness and that not every single country, no matter how small or large it is, must be a small copy of a large army. In Europe and also in Austria, we should assume that the resources available to people are limited to the policy of shaping the community and that we must deal with these resources according to the category of maximum efficiency. This applies not only to education but also to health and bureaucracy. A common European security, including a division of equipment tasks, is always more favourable than the copies of armies on a national scale.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e11127	Mr Dkfm. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Dr. stupid. The clock is set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e11145	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by referring to a question by Mr Gusenbauer at the beginning of my brief speech. Mr Gusenbauer asked here the very plausible question: What are you constantly talking about the need for reform when everything has gone so well in the last three years? This question appears to be very plausible at first. Mr. Partyobmann Gusenbauer! There is a threefold answer: First: The Federal Chancellor has admitted – very sympathetic human beings – that: We're not perfect either. [[Abg. Gaál: Really likeable!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... a very dishonest speech! An extremely dishonest speech!]] Secondly, Everyone sees that structural weaknesses that occur for more than three decades cannot be eliminated in three years. And thirdly, I am now saying this, because you have asked this question and because the new Members should also know how some of the transactions were carried out in the past: I reply Your question on the example of such delicate pension reform. We would not need a pension reform if the 1997 reform had not had the final scenario which I am allowed to describe here: Ladies and gentlemen! The 1997 pension reform was here in Parliament during the final phase, and the financial committee and the Committee met at the same time. During the current committee meeting, then clubman Peter Kostelka comes and says: Dear friends! No matter what's agreed: The SPÖ club can only agree if the ÖGB agrees. – We had to interrupt both committees for three hours. It took the ÖGB Board of Directors for three hours. Then the leader of the SPÖ union came and said: Okay, the ÖGB agrees if you do not have the points one, two, three and four! That's the truth! You know exactly, Mr Vergestnich, and I say quite openly to you – I recognize this –: [[Abg. Conspicuous: What were those points? Tell me the points!]] From this point of view, where the majority of parliament was hostageed by the social-democratic trade unionists, I was no longer a follower of the great coalition, Mr President Vergestnich! You will have to take note of this. [[Abg. Verbatim: Ask colleague Neugebauer once!]] I am sorry, but I would never like to see this as a parliamentarian again, that a majority of parliament is in hostage social democrat trade unionists, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaál:... hostagely the Chamber of Commerce!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But now to your central accusation in the urgent inquiry. The title includes the interceptors, but the central allegation is: Black-blue has failed on the content, and now black-blue is made because the FPÖ is the cheapest partner. [[Abg. Gaál: This is economic capitalist thinking!]] The question of Mr Cap – I would now use a certain expression in myself, Mr President, but I do not deliberately use it because otherwise I would be called for an order, so I do not use the phrase “The stupid question has been asked”, but I say: The absurd question was asked: Then what did we choose to do? Please, in the recent history of our country, since 1990, it has already happened three times! 1990: Before red-black – after red-black! 1994: Before the election Red-Black – after the election Red-Black! 1995: Before the election Red-Black – after the election Red-Black! [[Abg. Gaál:... bowl! - Shut up!]] [[Abg. Eder: The blues are no longer there! They're broken!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Why do you ask these absurd questions today? You did not ask these questions at the time, Mr Eder. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can also tell you the following: The Black and Blue government has not failed in its content, but it has failed because a government partner has suddenly had internal turbulence. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You have re-elected!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The outcome of the election has contained a clear statement. [[Abg. Gaál: You have re-elected!]] The ÖVP could never have won so clearly if the course had not been correct. But the course was really the course for stability in the state budget, the course for growth and economic location and the course for security – internal, external and social security! [[Deputies Dr. Wittmann and Dipl.- Ing. They didn't want to go with the FPÖ anymore!]] The course was right, ladies and gentlemen, and the voters also honoured it. And now it's all about: With which party can we implement the reforms necessary for the country? [[Abg. Gaál: They wanted to go with the FPÖ! That's not the voter's will!]] Mr Wittmann, I admit: With you, the question was in the foreground: What's the party doing good? – I was able to read all the time: The SPÖ is considering, it is tactically better for the SPÖ to stay in opposition or go to the government. [[Abg. Gaál: This is their thing!]] – That was never a question for us. It was always clear to us: We are willing to take on government responsibility and also solve unpopular problems. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: First you didn't want to go with the FPÖ anymore; now you want again!]] You of the SPÖ said: Stay in Opposition – Opposition means making calls, opposition means talking well, opposition means criticizing, opposition means protesting. – And the speech Caps showed: Opposition is obviously also called cabaret and caricature. – This is the opposite of carrying government responsibility! We are willing to take on responsibility, and a cabinet “Schüssel II” will continue this course, the course of stability in the state budget, the course of securing growth and economic location and the course of internal, external and social security! [[Call at the SPÖ:You wanted with the FPÖ...!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e11394	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Schweitzer. He wants to talk for 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Parnigoni: (in the direction of the Abg. May. Schweitzer) Well, Karli, what plane do you buy now? What kind of commission do you get?]] Mr Parnigoni, I have heard very carefully what you have said here. I suggest you apologise. [[Abg. Parnigoni: I just asked one question!]] – You know exactly what I mean. [[Abg. Parnigoni: I asked a question, and the speaker can answer it!]] The speaker is speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e11454	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister of Defence! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of the speech by Josef Cap, the Stenographic Protocol may say: Long-lasting applause at the SPÖ and the Greens. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, new colleagues at SPÖ appreciate it! Why and what did Josef Cap possibly receive this long-lasting applause in the Minutes? – He read from old newspapers. He has described caricatures, which we have also seen, more poorly than rightly, and, above all, he has acted with half-truths and untruths both in his written reasoning of the request and in his oral statements. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann:... the Westenthaler!]] [[Abg. Eder: The Westenthaler was better!]] I think it is not good, Mr Cap, if you, as a clubman, are looking for a bad example, if there are so many new Members here, and act with half-truths and falsehoods. That's why it's important to me to say what fact is what truth is. Mr Cap! I think it's worth your attention if your falsehoods are rebutted. In part, this has already been done by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, but I believe that a repetition of the truth is better than taking Joseph Cap's shudder fairy tales home as truth. That is why I am looking in particular for the new Members to deal with the facts. In his explanatory statement, Josef Cap claims that the income of workers in 2002 is below the value of 2000. – Mr Cap! Real incomes increased by 14.1 percent from 1999 to 2002, and thus Austria is excellent in the EU comparison – although, as far as incomes are concerned, Austria is particularly good in the EU comparison. Austria has once had a negative income trend in the last 20 years, Mr. Eder, in 1996 – and if I remember, I have to say that there was a socially democratic government at the time. At that time there was a negative income development of 0.9 percent. Secondly, Mr Cap claimed that Austria had an extremely high unemployment rate of 7 percent. – The fact is that unemployment is on average below 7 percent in 2000 and that the highest level of employment in the Second Republic was achieved at the same time in July 2002 with 3 248 055 employees. In contrast, average unemployment rose by 22,000 between 1995 and 1998 – in times of a high economic situation, Mr Cap. With a gross domestic product increase of 8.8 percent, a government dominated by the SPÖ managed to increase unemployment at that time! I think that shows that you had no idea of the economy at all when you were responsible for government. The figures are simply proof that you have no right to claim economic competence and leadership here in the country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Even the figures in recent years in which you still have government responsibility – for example 1998 for a gross domestic product of 3.5 percent – are higher than the figures in 2002. Since the elections there have been the large economic experts Kubitschek and Marterbauer at SPÖ. They wrote the following in their publication “Network Innovation” in June 2002 – I hope Mr. Marterbauer and Mrs. Kubitschek are also present in the hall –: “As a thumb rule, economic growth must be more than 1.8% per year in order to increase employment and more than 2.3% in order to reduce unemployment.” – Quotes. This Federal Government has succeeded in increasing the number of employees in far worse economic data. Thank God there is a FPÖ/ÖVP government, because it can do something worse with poorer data, which your experts, as they write in their books themselves, never accomplish, my dear ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The only problem we have in connection with labour market data is that of Vienna, Mr Parnigoni! While total employment in Austria also increased in 2002 compared with 2001, Vienna was the only state in the statistics to be found again with negative developments. We should also look at this on the basis of figures, data and facts – but not on the basis of figures coming from the SPÖ Club! [[Abg. Gaál: These are the savings of the Federal Government!]] [[Abg. Gaál: These were federal offices! Savings at the Ministries!]] I have the figures of ÖSTAT and EUROSTAT, and I see very proud increases in employment in all the federal states. And then I look at Vienna – and there I see an extremely rising unemployment and also a decrease in the number of employees. I'm thinking, Where the SPÖ governs by an absolute majority, it looks different because you have demonstrated your inability once again here, where you still have government responsibility. [[Abg. Gaál: Savings in the Federal Offices! ... at the Ministry of Interior!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! We also have the federal comparison – the total federal comparison and the federal comparison for men and women: Vienna is cutting off badly everywhere! This colleague Häupl, who thanked God at the federal level still has nothing to do with him, would have had enough to do in Vienna. I think it's time for the SPÖ's rule to be pushed back. Then it will be better for the Vienneses, my dear friends from the SPÖ! - Who's the disturbed one? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Gaál: Federal Offices!]] [[A man approaches from the back of the hall between the bank lines of the hall and calls out:This government has no right to form a new government with the extreme of the right! ...! You only need to look at human rights]] Mr President. Who is this? [[The unknown man, standing between the front bank lines, continues:]] That also does not bring peace in Israel...!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e11591	I'm interrupting the meeting. - Who is this? Where are our Ordinary Forces? The meeting is suspended until this troubleshooter is removed. [[The session will be suspended for a short time.]] [[The peace-breaker, approaching the speaker's desk, continues his calls: that's not Europe's maturity! ...]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who are you?]] [[The rest destroyer:]] Disappear She finally! That's not how it goes! You can't do that! [[Call the ÖVP: At last get him out!]] [[The rest destroyer:]] You're over here! You can't rule the people like that! This is not worthy of any rule of law! ...!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e11738	I'll start the interrupted session again. – It seems to be a foreigner. As we are an open house, it has therefore become clear once again how important it is that we review our security arrangements. The man's not from our house. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: To the Rules of Procedure!]] I've seen your speech, but at the word the speaker is. Then you can speak to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e11776	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That this man obviously cannot have anything to do with FPÖ or ÖVP, he has expressed through his speech. So it may well be that it is one of the ranks of the SPÖ or the Greens, for he has obviously sympathized with them. [[A lively contradiction and cry of outrage at the SPÖ and the Greens]] This presumption is likely to be expressed.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e11810	Mr Mag. Schweitzer, I would ask you to take back these suspicions!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e11825	It was a presumption, ladies and gentlemen, and I'm going... [[Abg. Reheis: An assumption is this, not a presumption!]] [[Further lively calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr President. I have no problem with considering my conjecture to be irresistible, and I would also like to ask the members of the SPÖ, who are so emotionally performing, to consider my presumption to be irresistible. [[Abg. Reheis: Your settings!]] But the tolerance of the tolerant is one that you should beware of, ladies and gentlemen! I've made this experience more often. I allow myself to make a few more historical statements in my speech, including for the new colleagues in the SPÖ: Mr President, Mr Fischer, Mr Schieder, you have already held interceptive debates in this House when I was not there. My dear young colleagues from SPÖ! These Social Democrats, who are still leading here, have spoken countlessly for the acquisition of airspace surveillance equipment. And also colleague Van der Bellen once meant: If the constitutional lawyers believe that we need this, then we will probably have to bite in the acid apple. There are, Mr Van der Bellen – you know, I know, the young colleagues perhaps not yet – an impressive list of individuals who have now expressed their views on this question in the form of opinions, from Professor Ermacora to Mr Öhlinger to your friend Heinz Mayer. They all said that the constitutional situation requires airspace surveillance with airspace surveillance aircraft. This is only a small note at the end of my remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e11890	Ladies and gentlemen! The nuisance is away. This incident shows once again that we must be very careful. Not everyone knows yet – we have a newly chosen house. I will deal with the question of the Security Committee, which we have just formed yesterday. We are here again and again in the conflict between maximum openness and transparency on the one hand, but also security for Members and the staff of the House on the other. Mr Cap! They have reported for business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e11911	Mr President. On one point I agree with you, of course, that it is necessary for us to find a clarification here on the security issue. The second, however, is that the indication of Klubobmann Schweitzer, that his presumption is irresistible, is too little. I think he has to apologize for this, because it cannot be said that if someone simply comes to the meeting room here, he is assigned to a political group. This is an insult to this group. [[Call to the liberals:... has used clumsy expressions!]] By the way, I'm asking for a stand-in-law. I think it would be necessary for us to talk about this in the context of these standing-up presidials.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e11949	Does anyone else want the word for it? Mr Schweitzer has reversed his presumption. We will talk about it in the next presidential term. [[Abg. Bures: You are no longer ÖVP Klubobmann, but President!]] Mr Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e11977	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer, I would just like to point out the following: It is not a group, it is not two political groups, it is not a government, it is not an opposition, it is an overall one, and sometimes we should be able to act as the Austrian National Council. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Is that a coincidence?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I originally assumed that we are discussing interception hunters today. It has also been discussed on the verge of interception hunters; I will, of course, come back to the subject, because this is not only the Rules of Procedure, but also the expectation of many listeners, but I would nevertheless like to address some of the points of the general debate. If I have understood the representatives of the government parties correctly, they have announced here and today that they will continue the path of Knittelfeld. The question is: Where is this path to go? Where is this path to lead with a Freedom Party that has obviously reached its political goal in Knittelfeld? Why did we have to vote and negotiate for three months when we conclude that perhaps the goal of the past coalition negotiations was the last resurgence of this coalition? We Greens have said from the outset: If we conduct government negotiations, we are serious about these government negotiations. Then we take them seriously with a single objective of forming a government as jointly as possible. Many things in the negotiations with the EIA have indicated to us that there is a willingness in many parts of the EIA to consider, prepare, and implement a new political project, if there is enough common ground, because we did not want a free party in the government again, because we did not want this degree of instability, incalculability, but also in content that pushes us to the right edge of Europe, another legislative period. That's why we said – and that was one of our main motives: Okay, let's get together and negotiate. Let us negotiate for the first time beyond traditional political camps and note that there is a second party next to the SPÖ for the Greens, with which it is worth at least negotiating! And it's been worth a week. I also note here in the National Council that the integration and asylum package that we could have decided together would have been more inside than ever before possible with the Social Democrats. It would have been possible in ecology too, it would have been a lot in Europe's policy and also – to the surprise of some of us – in the security policy. Then came the last long night about which so much has been publicly reported. There are political content that are symbols not only for individual parties but for the entire population – rightly or wrongly –. One of these symbols is: push off, if you do not learn German properly, forced deportations for people who do not complete their German courses. Not only was I surprised that the Federal Chancellor promised us Greens this long night to sign permanent human rights violations of the worst kind and then to put them into a government. No one in the ÖVP could seriously assume that we Greens can sign this, tolerate deportations if the liberal call “Learn German!” is not followed in individual cases. If people don't just walk into a German course and there are free threats with punishment, then we should say greens, okay, push off? [[Abg. Dr. Strasser: This is not a deportation! There is no deportation in this case!]] I can't do that, Dr. Schüssel! You know that, and you knew very well that it is totally impossible that there is an agreement from the Greens. Then came the big question of Eurofighter. We didn't ask you seriously this long night: How's that going? How is this to be done at a time when it is always called study fees, retentions, pension cuts, at a time when women get to the poverty line? Some times the answer came: It's kind of with the compensation allowance. Compensation allowances as an increasingly broad basis of a so-called new pension model – and at the same time you say the Greens should sign that € 2 billion is wasted for Eurofighters? . In the course of these negotiations, I felt more and more, as it is not just about the interception hunters, but about the specific project Eurofighter. There's more behind that. There is the story of the – I am now quite careful – serious suspicion of a shift in the type decision with all the consequences behind it. [[Abg. Murauer: Is there a case where the fungus has no suspicion?]] Federal Chancellor! They reported that one department leader had expressed his private opinion and said that he was for the grip that everyone else was for the Eurofighter. Federal Chancellor! What I'm holding in my hands here is not a private opinion. This is the official act of the Federal Ministry of State Defense. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: I don't have it!]] The “private opinion” you are talking about is the official opinion of the responsible department head, Divisional Spinka. There is a second name, the opinion of the responsible section head, Corrieri: against Eurofighter, for grips. And on that is the next signature, not a private opinion, but the opinion of the responsible General Force Inspector Horst Pleiner. – Mr Bundeskanzler! These are all private opinions? The highest officials of the Ministry of Defence are moving you out of the act and saying that mere private opinions are not interested in us? If someone starts to deal with files like this as head of government, then you must not be surprised when Eurofighter and the suspicion of a conscious suspension of the tender procedure come to an end. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: I don't have him!]] [[Abg. Dr. Strasser: This is a very evil submission that you make in the protection of your immunity!]] At this point we are now. That is why we do not need a signature under a contract of sale, but a committee of inquiry! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We need a committee of inquiry to clarify the point of the first attempt – the failed attempt – of the Minister of Defence to present it in the Council of Ministers, what happened in the second attempt and what happened in the Eurofighter surprise. We from the Green Club will document a lot in the next few days, because we have been wondering what happened since Sunday. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm saving myself the whole funding platform. I am saving myself all the computer works of art, how to seduce award-winning companies into making 40 billion sales, just to be able to give to the Austrian German army fighter aircraft. I am saving myself the attempt of the Minister of Finance, who explained that we do not finance this from the budget, but we simply give the suppliers and the compensators the taxes until it expires. And I am saving you the debate on how the Austrian people are taking it up when you say: No, we don't finance this from the budget, but we finance it by giving up government revenue. – This does not matter for taxpayers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Because I can't believe it and because I can't imagine that a federal government is failing to do something like this, I think here, I think, a well-founded presumption – contrary to the suspicion of Mr Schweitzer. Federal Chancellor! I feel more and more that you needed negotiations with the SPÖ and the Greens personally in order to be able to explain publicly, you finally had to return to the Freeman, otherwise you would not have faced us with unfulfilled demands at the end of the coalition negotiations. [[Abg. Dr. Strasser: This is an evil submission!]] If it is true that for you – not for many ÖVP negotiators I have learned to appreciate in these weeks – much of it was a political game and [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] If you deal with the major issues of the Republic like Jetons, I would ask you, Mr Bundeskanzler, to leave the level of the game as soon as possible. The government you want to form now...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12141	Please come to the conclusion, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12156	I'll be at the end of the sentence. This government, which you now want to form with the liberals who are anything but government-able, of which you know that they are beginning with an instability which is about the same as knittelfeld, Mr. Bundeskanzler, has no future. And you're gonna...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12180	Your speaking time is over, Mr Pilz. The final sentence was very long. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. Dr. Pilz.]] Mr Scheibner is next spoken. He also has a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12214	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the last three years, I have already experienced a whole series – one could almost say a lot – of interception-hunting discussions, also a whole series of urgent requests and urgent requests on this subject, but never a urgent request for the withdrawal of the hunters, in which so little has been discussed and discussed about the interception hunters. This debate and this certainly important project were taken today as a follow-up to a completely different debate. This, I believe, is a little symptomatic of how, at the political level in Austria, we are discussing a project as important as it will be, whether Austria will be able to comply with the constitutional mandate in the future, not only to protect the country's sovereignty on land but also in the air. As Mr Klubobmann asked Gusenbauer what the House deserved and, having criticized the government, I already wonder: What deserves, yes, what does Austria need? . I think we should agree that Austria needs politicians who unabatedly confess to the security of this country and its population, with all its facets, even if it is perhaps unpopular. We should beware of this, and the politicians of all political groups, that we are making party policy on the back of the security of this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! But you have done this in the last three years with the subject of interception hunters. I regret this because you have not allowed this national consensus on security policy either. I know that in all the political groups, including you and the Social Democrats, there are a number of politicians, especially military politicians, who also see it as I would like this national consensus because they know what the reality is. Unfortunately, these have to bend to this political dictatorship in their own political groups. Too bad, ladies and gentlemen. They really do a bad job for our country, the security of our country. Ladies and gentlemen! It is necessary to make this post-purchase. I have always acknowledged to you that one can be of different opinion whether one or the other type is the better or the worse or which system one goes to, but the principle should not be disputed that it will be necessary to monitor and also secure the airspace with interceptors in the future. That should be out of dispute. I don't understand why this is not possible with the current opposition. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You, Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer, presented an alternative: You said you should give up these interception hunters and go into a European security system and take responsibility there for these things. – Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer, where is this system? Where is this common defence system in the European Union where this is possible? Where are these stages? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Constructions!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: You're in government!]] You, in particular, rightly criticized the fact that it is still not possible to show a common political will in the face of the Iraq crisis. Where, then, is the willingness to abandon national sovereignty in defence policy one, as you would like, to form a common European army in which these tasks of defence are carried out jointly? This is not recognizable for the next 20, 30 years. I say to you, Mr Gusenbauer: I don't want this system either. And I am surprised that you want this – you, who always stand up for neutrality, you who are so opposed to NATO accession. Austria's obligations in such a common security and defence system would go far beyond what NATO members now have to do and carry out in this defence alliance. I don't understand. This is a contradiction, another contradiction in your security and defence policy. I do not want – I do not support such a concept – that there is a Brussels-led Europe Army, where Brussels decides where Austrian soldiers are being sent, and that we must ask in Brussels for the necessary capacity in a flood disaster, for example, for our own safety. This must remain the competence of Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why it will also be necessary in the foreseeable future to achieve this sovereignty, this protection of sovereignty in the air from its own pieces and from its own resources. You're asking for that, too. You're asking me to be Minister of Defense, right now! Mr. Klubobmann Cap! I therefore did not understand your comparison when you said that you were against this purchase right now. – Just now it turns out that it is necessary to have interceptors! Of course, the purchase contract does not help us yet, but we thank God for the Dragons who fulfil the task of airspace surveillance at all the borders that have been given. They ask me to check whether the approved overflights are actually in line with what has been requested, and whether there are non-illegal – or as you say – overflights for the preparation of the Iraq war. How can we check this if we do not have the opportunity to look at these planes on the spot? – I have one before Interruption belongs to: The radar is still working. – Do you know that there is only one point on a radar screen? It is not recognizable how many planes really fly over Austria and what planes these are! – This too is a contradiction, ladies and gentlemen. The Austrian Federal Government and also the Freedom Party have never played this game on the back of the security of Austria, even when we were in opposition. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Just posterted!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler and, above all, Mr Pilz. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Mr Haider has documented: Eurofighter stopped!]] Deputy Pilz! You said there was a serious suspicion of the displacement. I'm telling you, as the Minister responsible, I reject this allegation with all clarity, with all clarity! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The prosecution has verified anonymous ads and found no suspicions. The Court of Auditors reviewed the first part and praised the procurement procedure. The second part will be examined for my initiative. Look at this audit! You have – and you are very well informed – addressed the procedure here. It's clear: The evaluation committee in my department has made a clear decision and the technical criteria of the Eurofighter have been reviewed. However, the responsible officials of the group and the section also have to review the budgetary framework of the section and have therefore made this recommendation that you have addressed. The Federal Government has to assess the overall package, including the economic and technological sectors, and also has to take precautions when it comes to budgetary security. The Council of Ministers template – and you know that – clearly states that all additional expenditure incurred by this procurement and also by the type decision of the Federal Army must be allocated in addition to the defence budget. – So an comprehensible argumentation chain, an comprehensible procedure. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Say something about the operating costs!]] I would like to make it clear here once again: When new elections were fixed, when it was clear that I could no longer conclude this procedure, that I could not sign the contract, I stopped the contractual negotiations. They are to this day. The future Federal Government will have to continue the procurement procedure after the then present situation. And I say to you that it is necessary to continue this procedure because otherwise in a few years we will no longer be able to do what you and I, as Minister of Defense, have called for: protect the airspace against illegal overflights and thus make an important contribution to the security of our country. We feel obliged to do so, and that will be so in the future. I hope that you can come back to national consensus on this important issue of security and defence policy at some point. I am sorry that I have not succeeded, although in the last three years I have often tried to bring you on this right path in security policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12341	Before I speak to Mrs Magistrate. Mr Prammer, I would like to invite the members of the Security Committee to attend a meeting in local III, that is to say, after the implementation of the emergency, the question and the first reading of the Foreign Law. Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Prammer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12363	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr Federal Minister, I heard you did not sign the contract. All the better, I can only say that, because then you still have every chance in the world to join your electorate in order to justify that you are currently breaking a suffrage. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: What did I promise?]] You have put in the election debate, your country captain in Carinthia has documented that Haider will stop the interception hunters that Haider will stop the purchase of interception hunters. You'll have to decide sometime: Does the head of state of Carinthia belong to your party or not? I believe that the electorate of your party will also have a certain interest in this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Does the head of your party belong to or not?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! In fact, it has changed a lot in the last three years in this House. I can still remember a time when it was an unwritten law of this House that there was no polemics from the government bank. However, they are making themselves here and censoring, evaluating, noting statements by Members. Mr Bundeskanzler, you're just not allowed to do that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The sovereign of this house is the National Council. Of course you have to tell us your opinion here, but please also note that we have our opinions and will also articulate them uncensored here in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's not exactly as you would like to show that it wasn't for nothing at all, on 24 April. ==References== Federal Chancellor! The voters become impatient. You probably know the survey values as well as we know them, and now you have They are more than the absolute majority among voters, namely: Who's to blame for not having a new government yet? The blame is clearly attributed to you, its name is Wolfgang Schüssel. While you still have a great sympathy in the constellation after the 24th century. In November, this sympathy was very different from you, Mr. Bundeskanzler. It would be all the more important that you do not argue down from the high Ross to the MEPs, but rather engage in the dialogue. I would just expect you to do that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it has been very clear what you are planning – that has already been said several times –: Black and blue are to continue. However, I no longer understand the Freedom Party, the Freedom Party, which obviously must have removed the mirrors in the liberal club for a long time, because you can certainly no longer look inside from the Freeman. I wonder how you want to explain this to your electorate if you suddenly give your consent, even with regard to this buying-in of a catch-up hunter, because there were other statements before the election – I have already said it. But above all, as far as health policy is concerned, I ask you: How do you explain the self retention of the sick? How do you suddenly explain that there should be a clear increase in contributions to health insurance in Austria, but a very one-sided increase in contributions, because the contributions will no longer pay the solidarity community, but the sick in that country? We will defend ourselves against this now and also in the future. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, of the liberals, will certainly be presented to you once again. Also with regard to pensions: Member of the European Parliament Walch is not in the house or not in the hall, but I will listen to him very curiously, as he will argue when he joins his employees and explains that there are no early pensions at all. These are the real challenges that we face in the near future. We know we need a fair, a new pension right. But what you propose here is deeply unsocial, even uncreative, on the one hand, and it does not bring in, above all, the amounts you have always announced here. That is, you obviously intend to pursue client policy. In contrast, social democracy has rightly resisted, and it will continue to fight against it in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Your suggestion to intervene in existing pensions is social, isn't it?]] I do not want to talk about women's policy at all, but it does not happen to you anyway. We only have a “great luck” that will take place next week of the women’s day. Once a year, the women in Austria are allowed to rejoice, as they also find approval and interest in the government parties. So we can prepare and adjust to it even today. – The fact is that you have more than failed in women’s policy. The situation of women has become a very bad one. They are in the process of being pushed out of the acquisition process. The It is a negative list that we simply have to predict. All of this will obviously be made available to you at a zero rate by the Freeman. I'm waiting for it to last. It will not be four years, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12458	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. She's been asking for six minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12476	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! I have been in the various functions here in the House for about 20 years now, and I have until today believed that a party that, with more than 36 percent of voters' votes can rightly put the claim to state-bearing, also takes urgent requests seriously. I have always assumed that a urgent request is the treatment of an urgent matter. Today I was taught a better person, because if a government-bearing party not only allows the presentation of a urgent request in cabaretist style, but also with sounding laughter and applause, I ask: What right do you continue to assert the right to state support, and how do you explain this to your voters? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! How do you explain this to your voters? You claim in your request that things have become worse in Austria; Mrs Prammer has just explained, also in the social field. You have already had to note that this accusation is not true of the economic sector. I will give you some more information that proves that your claim, even in the social field, has become worse, is not true. [[Abg. Gradwelt: We hear!]] This government has concluded debt making and for the first time ensure that fewer interest rates flow annually into the debt policy that the SPÖ had to answer for 30 years. We have thus created the conditions that we have ensured, with a first step of the pension reform of three years ago, which was necessary and correct, that pensions remain safe for the young. And we will have to follow with a further pension reform, because how do you explain, Mrs Prammer, to your electorate, to your young voters, that they may no longer receive pensions in 30 years, because you have not made sure that the system is safe with a reform? This government has also provided for more social justice, for example, with the approximation of workers and employees, than the socialist party has done in 30 years among socialist German Chancellors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] This has not been our typical clientele, but it is your typical clientele. We have set a social policy milestone with the redundancies, Mrs Prammer, which ensures that, with the extension of the second and the third pillar, pensions are more in line with income. We have set up a social policy milestone for all, one of the Republic's largest poverty reduction programmes, in particular as regards women, Mrs Prammer, and in particular as regards women alone. [[Abg. Where do you live, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat?]] Thank God in Austria, and I am also very pleased with it. For example, we have solved important social policy issues with topics such as family hospice. The OECD confirms to us that we thank God in security the country number one. It has succeeded in improving not only the fight against drugs and child abuse, but also illegal immigration and organised crime. In particular, Mr Pilz – he is still in the hall – I would like to say: You've said a lot about what's true. But, Mr Pilz, stay with the whole truth. It was never about moving off, but it was about not extending the residence permit, and that is a significant difference. Ladies and gentlemen! We will certainly not allow social security to be played out against general security. I think it is important in a country like Austria that social security is true, but it must also be ensured as much as possible for Austrians. And if we afford to pay 4 billion Schilling grants to the federal railways every year, then it must also be worth the security of our country to provide our federal army with an amount of 2 billion schilling once, in order to have the necessary equipment for the surveillance of airspace. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We do not let one play against the other, because I would like to say, in the light of one word of health: Security is not everything, but without security everything is nothing.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12553	Mr Bösch has now been notified to the House. He's got a limit of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12571	Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Prammer, you should not worry about the credibility of the FPÖ, because if the FPÖ enters it, this federal government will continue to pursue that reform policy which was only possible through our entry into the Federal Government in 2000 and which began at that time. But back to the subject, to this urgent request from the SPÖ. Mr Cap! In contrast to some previous speakers, I did not consider your speech to be embarrassing here, at least not as long as you were cabaretist, because in it you have a certain talent. It is embarrassing, Mr Cap, that it was not until you tried to become objective, and on this issue that we should be talking about seriously today, that we did not put any new arguments on the table. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! It's really incredible, now you're already in opposition in the second legislative period, but your urgent requests are still not getting better. I think we should give you a little tip there or there. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Either you have missed the topic at the speaker's desk – or those who have written you this urgent request, because quite what is written here and what you have done best here, ladies and gentlemen, was not compatible. We can, however, make it relatively short, because we have already dealt with this issue in various debates. You have essentially used your speaking time to shed crocodile tears in relation to the government negotiations. I was amazed at the fact that this not only did Mr Cap and Mr Gusenbauer, but also Peter Pilz, in fact, continued to cry seamlessly. That was rather surprising for me. Ladies and gentlemen! The procurement process – Federal Minister Herbert Scheibnerist said – took place in terms of the interception hunters in the best possible transparency. The procurement process was clear and clearly understandable in all Parliament's bodies. We have debated this. The Federal Government has examined. Minister of Defence, Minister of Finance, Minister of Economic Affairs, the Federal Government has taken decisions and decisions have been taken. The political decision around it was also a clear and clear result of the discussions that took place throughout the Republic. I would just like to remind you of a popular desire to deal with this issue. This Federal Government has essentially conducted the public debate transparently and clearly, in my view, also. When there were disagreements and known events in the election campaign, the procurement process was stopped. The new Federal Government will reassess all these processes and will consider how the process will be in the coming months in relation to this question. Federal Minister Scheibner has responded. The request made by Mr Pilz for a committee of inquiry can be met again today with the clear argument that the Court of Auditors has already examined the award procedure. This examination is available to the public. We have a second audit of the Court of Auditors in relation to the procurement process and the decisions taken there. We will have this report in Bälden, and we will then discuss it. Mr Kogler! They will do this – I don't worry about that – leading. Ladies and gentlemen! Today you have again presented your usual unbelievable arguments against the acquisition of interception hunters. You have still not been able to explain to the public why on the one hand you want to maintain neutrality and, on the other hand, to abandon this important area of sovereignty, namely airspace surveillance. The idea of Mr Gusenbauer towards a European security and defence structure can only be considered naive in the light of the current situation and also in the light of recent events. We have just been presented by the European Union as a model example of how a Union cannot function in future on foreign and security policy issues. But that is – and we must be clear about this – the status with which we have to deal politically in reality, in the present Europe-wide. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore clear that ensuring airspace monitoring is also a clear priority of this federal government. In the light of the situation in which the European Union and in the Union are also the Republic of Austria, it is also good that we have a federal government that values independent national defence.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12648	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. His speaking time is set at 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12668	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Dear colleagues! The urgent request of the SPÖ is indeed divided into two parts: The reason is more focused on the macro-data of development in Austria, and the question then refers in detail to the procurement process, specifically to the product “Eurofighter”. I will briefly comment on both parts in my speech. With regard to the macroeconomic developments, you, Mr Bundeskanzler, stated that GDP would have grown in itself compared to 1999. – Well, it would really be an art if it were to be done that a federal government – still in a small open economy – could get so far as to negatively drive GDP growth through its own actions. It can't be! Maybe you didn't mean that either, maybe you meant that real growth would have to be compared. Then we'll do that! It turns out, however, that we have slipped relatively far backwards in the change in real growth. - You should keep that in order. That's it! They also mentioned the number of employees. – It has increased, that is right, but more interesting, of course, is the question of how the unemployment rate has developed. It is still very good in Austria – admittedly, that is, the merit of a particular policy over many years – but whether it can be enough to measure the success of the last three years by whether the unemployment rate has remained at the same level or perhaps has experienced an increase is another question. I would also recommend looking at the change in the unemployment rate, and it turns out that we are unfortunately in the forefront of Europe, in other words, in the rise of the unemployment rate. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Even the innovation indicators are not different – these are the really future things that should be compared in such a ranking – since we are located in the last third. Let's talk about it. Now, to find out from my colleague, Mr Rauch-Kallat, that there is no doubt that everything is nothing. Let us put the common approach on this basis and also ask ourselves whether the Constitution requires certain types of aircraft to achieve this safety. Just as the Federal Minister Scheibner argued, it almost sounds as if the Constitution would require 2 billion € to be transferred to a certain company based in Baden-Württemberg. That can't be it, Minister of State! [[Interference of Federal Minister Scheibner.]] Mr Federal Minister, you have expressly referred to the Constitution, and you have referred again to Mr Van der Bellen. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Scheibner.]] I'll tell you: The Federal Constitution says nothing about the type choice. Now I want to take the type decision, because it was specifically questioned. I ask you, Minister of State: Why is it possible that in all financing variants – I emphasize: in all financing variants! – most expensive product coming to train? – This can only be justified by the fact that a military-technical assessment is a special one – I underline: a special one! – Show advantage for this product, which you obviously prefer. After all we know, however, it is not at all! The military evaluation committees have, and have already become known to the public, established a relative equivalence of the two offers. Now comes the question to you why do you purchase a price difference of €200 billion in case of payment from delivery? – The Federal Chancellor has said the figures... € 200 million! [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: 200 billion €?- Oh, my God!]] Thank you for the correction! The Federal Chancellor said he didn't know the numbers, but maybe he didn't want to tell them here. – I could deliver it to him, but I'm not doing it here, I'm just telling you so much: We know the numbers, and I can tell you exactly the difference. In one case, it would be the apparent sum of € 200 million. It is not understandable to me why the most expensive product has to be purchased. You have remained guilty of the answer to this question. – Unfortunately, Mr. Federal Chancellor is not in the hall now, but he was asked exactly that and nothing else, and I think it is strange that one must feel so floating about things and about the content of this urgent question – even though it was divided. That doesn't have to be. The issue of procurement infringements in this procurement process is one of its own. The Court of Auditors, Mr Scheibner and Mr Bösch, have not yet said anything about this, because the Court of Auditors has so far only examined whether the call for proposals has been made correctly, and nothing else. We will not have the next report tomorrow, as Partyobmann's head suggested, but only in a few months and not before. There you will have to take your coalition negotiations a little longer if this is to be a criterion. But why – come back – award infringements? – If a provider is given the opportunity to reduce his offer from 24 to 18 pieces, this option must also be opened up to the potential contributor, even if a type decision has already been made before. That's quite clear! I don't understand why you are so opposed to this logic. In fact, a comparative offer of “grips” – as I know – has “grips” presented one, and that would have to be re-evaluated. But you refuse to do that, we know. Explain this once! You will still have to explain this to the public! They have made several award-making errors that actually indicate a mega-GAU. That's the point now: I am not discussing the question at this point: Take-off hunters: yes or no?, but the question: Why “Eurofighter”? - That's exactly what the request was, and you didn't answer it. If you want to bring the counter-businesses to the meeting as the next argument, then you will be asked if they are so great or not. – So far, nothing is known about meaningful counter-business agreements. On the contrary, it is being tried to rehearse transactions that have come about without the purchase of Eurofighters. The good old game! A whole lattice of errors that happen there are 1 : 1 taken from the chronology of Thomson procurement. We all know that it was not quite correct at the time. The same direction is directed: At the end of the day, counter-actions must be maintained in order to question other criteria. We will take the evidence in the future – it's not the time for it today, it's too early – and it's important to me now to tell you: You have not answered these crucial questions! – Would you please accept this, Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, alternate for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. The electorate of the Federal Chancellor explained to us at the start of his party's election campaign: The whole thing is now held out of the election campaign, the procurement act is on hold. It will be based on an economic platform where the whole thing is financed particularly cheaply! – The coordinator of this economic platform is a certain colleague, Mr Farnleitner, from the point of view of the Federal Chancellor. If you ask Mr. "College" Farnleitner about this, he says that he is not a coordinator for anything in this matter, he only once gave the hint that you might think of a lease-and-lease-back procedure. - That's how it looks! This reminds us of 1 : 1 of the procedure in the despicable "Euroteam" affair: There are also always some coordinators for any processes and platforms that have not even known anything about their “luck”. . So, let's talk to Mr Farnleitner about whether he sees himself as a coordinator for such an economic platform. Mr Farnleitner is doing well not to understand himself as such, because there is nothing to gain, there is only something to lose because of this strange approach you are looking after. All companies that have so far been told that they would enter this economic platform, because they are supposed to benefit from counter-business, have rejected this – and they also do well to do so, because there are no counter-actions in the alleged form, and should they ever exist, they will not help to reduce the funding of the “Eurofighter”. Finally, it remains the so-called financing platform, a construction that will help to get these costs out of the 2003 to 2006 budget figures. That's what I'm saying: Toi, toi, toi! But there's nothing cheaper about it! Who really believes that the fighter aircraft will be cheaper if the funding is increasingly shifted to the future? Of course, credit costs are increasing. Do you think any leasing platform will provide the money for free? It's all reluctant! This is just an attempt to move the huge budget burden for this purchase into the next legislative period. You burdened the next generations with this overpriced purchase, and this is true, Mr. Cot, with the slogan you have issued: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] No new debts!, not together at all. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion, Mr President: I was really kind today and tried to question whether the answers could really not be given. You're making it really hard on you. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign the other day.]] I'm afraid a committee of inquiry will remain indispensable.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12756	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12774	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the debate in the last two hours has shown that it is very important that we deal with what is actually the reason for the fact that this federal government – above all Wolfgang Schüssel – is in fact unable to take away from the unnecessary purchase of interception hunters. The fact that he is master in three things is the fact that he has shown himself especially in his personal response: Wolfgang Schüssel is a master in moving responsibility, Wolfgang Schüssel is master in beautiful speeches and looking away, and Wolfgang Schüssel is master in political disbelief. I would also like to give examples of these three points. [[Abg. Großruck: Master in the Winning of Elections!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Austrians have been able to read in every daily newspaper that a load wave will roll over them. It has been learned that a new black and blue government of the population is again a major burden – whether it is a burden on the sick, a burden on commuters, a burden on drivers or a massive additional burden on young people, namely students. In such a situation, this Federal Government finds nothing at all for Wolfgang Schüssel to buy billioneurs of interception hunters – billioneurs of interception hunters who don't need Austria and who don't want a human being in Austria. [[Abg. Murauer: Not even applause comes from your party!]] This is unbelief when you introduce loads on the one hand and on the other hand make massive expenditures. Do you know what's still unbelief in politics? – Wolfgang Schüssel said in September: Let's take the theme of interception hunters from the election campaign!, and he's been preoccupied with the fact that he's ready to discuss the purchase of the interception hunters. It didn't take long, just after the election he determined: Without If and But, cost it what it would like to buy these interceptors! – This is political disbelief, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have the task of explaining to people who don't have it so easily financially difficult that you, the ÖVP, want to spend € 2 billion on combat aircraft, but at the same time introduce self-retain for the doctor's visit. You have to explain to young people that you are willing to spend € 2 billion on interceptors, while at the same time freeing the amount of study fees, as I have read. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, nothing is added to Dr. Wailand’s comment, which he writes in the “Kronen Zeitung”. The policy you are making is as Mr Wailand writes: ‘Statt reformiert is abcassed’. – This is a policy that Austria has not earned and that does not serve the good of Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as political disbelief is concerned, the Secretary-General of the ÖVP has immediately joined the Federal Chancellor. She made herself here and said: We've ended making debt! Do you know what it looks like to make debt? – According to the Minister of Finance, because the S & D party has rightly requested a cash fall, the budget deficit will be 1.3 percent. This means government debt of €2.8 billion for 2002. This means €7.3 million re-indebtedness. That's the truth! Do not scatter sand into the eyes of the population, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Appeal It says: more honesty in politics! This is particularly lacking in the ÖVP. As regards beautiful speeches and ways of looking: We have the highest unemployment rate in the Second Republic. Unemployment is declining throughout Europe, and it is rising in Austria. [[Abg. Grossruck: What's with your comrade Schröder?]] Federal Chancellor! Is that better or worse? – I say to you: That's for those people who don't have a job, damn bad, my dear ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the past, we had a real wage trend in Austria, which was always well above the EU average. What does she look like now? We are at the end of this in Europe. And that unfortunately means a deterioration for many Austrians, Mr. Federal Chancellor! A comment on the question of shifting responsibility: The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is master in the removal of responsibility, so I would like to write to him the following in the main book: Federal Chancellor! You have the responsibility for a non-social policy, you have the responsibility that there are no reforms but only wastes, and you are likely to have the responsibility for a very unstable black and blue government in the future! No one will take this responsibility from you!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12898	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e12931	Mr President. Federal Minister! Again a little more serious – this is certainly appropriate after Mrs Bures' speech! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap said it was a bit embarrassing to him. To this end, I should like to say: Dr. Cap! It's embarrassing that you've been since 4. For party political reasons, for populist considerations, February 2000 simply say: These bad planes, these interceptors, we don't need this war material! Mrs Bures has just explained to us what she would buy about the money to be spent on the “smart” interception hunters, and spoke of kindergartens, study fees and compensation allowances compared with security policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] Mrs. Prammer! Have you forgotten what we're shooting at the Austrian Federal Railways? You didn't say anything about that. To the amount of the deficit of the Austrian Federal Railways, we could buy the aircraft twice a year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] - I'll come to you, Parnigoni. Why do we need interceptors? Why do we need airspace control, ladies and gentlemen? – Mrs Prammer! [[New call of the abg. May. Prammer.]] It would be good if you were to be careful, because then you could also come to the thought that you were before 4. He was right in February and now he is wrong. They misuse the security policy for your party interests. I would have thought you were more serious. Now again on the question: What about interceptors? – I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that there is only a discussion in Austria about what we should secure the airspace for. Parnigoni, ask your colleague Gaál, why! He knows he broke up with it, just: He can't say what he knows right now. He used to be allowed to say it. Parnigoni, your suggestion that we have anyway the radar systems, the “gold hood”, – but not aircraft – and that that is enough, it seems to me as if you have a fire alarm system, but no fire brigade. I'm sure that's not the way it is! We should not implement these proposals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are proposals from you that, although we still have the neutrality law, another country and other military in our airspace should guarantee our security. Of course, those, of course, all other countries have surveillance planes, interceptors for their safety. Only we in Austria are discussing whether we need it at all! Today, read in the “New Zurich Newspaper” that neutral Switzerland is making savings in its army due to its difficult financial situation, but in airspace surveillance it sees a focus and also enforces it because it says that the future dangers, the future problems in the airspace lie. Switzerland is therefore focusing on this. – With us, ladies and gentlemen, we will discuss whether we need them! The Austrian Federal Government – like the Austrian People's Party – stands for security policy in this country and also wants to acquire appropriate airspace surveillance aircraft! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To repeat from the discussion today morning: Should we no longer make our security our own national issue? The accusation of the “safety experts” Pilz and Cap is that we can no longer control our airspace, do not know the number of those who frequent our airspace, nor do we know who it is. But then to the answer that we need appropriate devices to say no, ladies and gentlemen, that, in my opinion, is a division of consciousness! If we did not actually need a plane, we could also immediately return the “dracs” and stop the operation. We don't want this! We want to secure the airspace of our country precisely at a time that is becoming more unstable, at a time when more risks can be identified, with appropriate aircraft. Last sentence: Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition parties, the Social Democracy and the Greens! It would be appropriate for you to put back on your party interests in terms of security policy from now on and put the security of our country in the foreground. That would be urgently necessary!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13032	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13050	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister! Federal Chancellor! The theme of interception hunters is certainly a very interesting one and especially in recent months very intensively guided. At the beginning, however, allow me to return to a question of the SPÖ, which has been asked more often today: Why was elected? As someone standing here, I would like to give the following answer: Why did you agree? – You yourself have decided these new elections and agreed to them! Therefore, you should put this question in your own bodies, and then we will also deal with it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's always a pity for me: I prepare and think about what I want to give of myself, but my previous speakers deliver such a wealth of subject matter that I rarely come to say what I wanted to say. If Mrs Prammer brings along a poster on which Jörg Haider is depicted, I am glad that the SPÖ is still collecting posters from Jörg Haider, but I would like to remind you of the following: If we were to hang all the SPÖ election posters on which election promises are the ones that were not held, then we would probably have to move the plenary room into the exhibition hall so that there would be room for them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now on the issue of defence policy – I see this question about the procurement of interception hunters as a question of defence policy. I myself will be praised this evening in the Defence Committee and this committee, so I can stand here today and say: I will certainly be praised to ensure that comprehensive national defence is guaranteed in Austria. And the state defense has to be done on land and in the air according to the current conditions. This is important, and I am convinced that the people's understanding of it is available, provided that the conditions are met. I have to say: I do not doubt in any way, and not least, the legality of the respective procurement processes; they are examined by so many bodies that it is almost childish to call for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. What do we have bodies, such as the Court of Auditors, bodies, how we find them here in this House? – As regards this Committee of Inquiry: If the Court of Auditors considers this to be the case, it will certainly be the case. In the meantime, I do not doubt the decision made by our gentlemen here. [[Abg. May. Worm: Mr. Haider has already said...!]] – If you have such a good contact with the head of state, I will still ask you what he has said about the formation of government. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! In fact, you should be grateful to Mr Scheibner for giving you so much material for such questions, committees of inquiry and repeated questions, otherwise you would probably have little to do with them. I am relatively new in this house and miss the constructiveness of the talks. I miss talking about things that have not yet been “eated. ” If the interception was decided in the last legislative period – legitimately decided, I assume – then I don't need to talk about it anymore. What we are talking about is problems that are really important for the future, problems that we are dealing with sometime now, but which will still have to be solved. [[Abg. May. Worm: The truth is a daughter of the time!]] Yes, or a son, you can't say that – or can't I say that? [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – Out here it's much more fun than inside, I have to say that honestly. Finally, I would like to make a brief point on how the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and the Greens can actively get involved in this debate. Perhaps you should use your very good channels to this great, highly praised German government. I think they bought hundreds of interception hunters there – from reds and greens. Perhaps you should use these channels to ensure the national defence from there. [[Abg. May. Worm:... by Kohl!]] In the meantime – I can guarantee you that – and as long as we have responsibility, we will also exercise this responsibility. And as long as the voters give us the mandate to do so, we will do it for so long. - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Eder: He did not give it to you! 16 percent less!]] [[17:28]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13151	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Nürnberger, I should like to say that the Members of Parliament, Dr. Cap and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure have requested to set up an investigation committee to investigate the procurement of fighter aircraft. In addition, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on the setting up of an investigative committee. As a urgent question has been debated at today's meeting, the debate and the vote on it will take place after the agenda has been completed. I would ask you to take note of this. The written request will be distributed to all members of the House. I call Mr Nürnberger. The clock is set to “about” 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13190	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor has made a question-answer game from the government bank down with us: “Better or worse?” – Mr. Federal Chancellor, we can continue this game: ==References== January 2000: 278 657; January 2003: 303 676. Mr. Federal Chancellor, better or worse? - Worse! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unemployment rate 2000: 5,8; 2001: 6.1; 2002: 6.9. Mr. Federal Chancellor, better or worse? – Bad, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Those questions that concern people have probably left you out. Mrs Rauch-Kallat has set a similar example: She told Mr Pilz that he should stick to the truth. I can give the return: Mrs Maria Rauch-Kallat, stay Please, by the truth! They have once again boasted with the famous alignment of workers and employees. Now I ask myself a question: There is a jubilee brochure of the Federal Chamber of Commerce – a profit of employers: about 3 billion Austrian schilling. Question: Is it better or worse for workers in this country if employers have 3 billion in profits? – Bad, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka:... have you agreed!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Deputies! I can help your long-term memory – I have always believed you have a good memory – a little bit. The explanation you have given here: They never want to be in this House again in the hostagery of the social-democratic trade unionists, as that was the case in 1997... [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes!]] Then to the truth! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: This is the truth!]] No, that's not the truth! I will tell you the truth as one of those concerned. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You know...!]] There were problems with pension reform. It is true that until there was an agreement, it had to be spoken here, an agreement between the then vice chancellor Schüssel and Klubobmann Khol – in the office of the then clubman Khol – the Klubobmann Kostelka and me. Do you know what it was about? In the course of the major pension reform, it was about extending the basis of assessment for all. But the official union... – There is my dear, dear colleague Neugebauer, if he has enough civil courage, and I put it to him, he will admit that he was sitting in the Hohenstaufengasse, and unfortunately we have negotiated the “Castania” of the ÖAAB and the Christian Trade Unions – perhaps a mistake from me. At that time – and this was the end of the compromise – it was a cover on the basis of the assessment for officials, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So the social-democratic trade unionists, Mr Deputies, have kept the government from the hostages of the ÖAAB and the Christian trade unionists! That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Why?]] Because you couldn't get through with your official trader, with your ÖAPBender! Now a few comments on the pension in principle. There have been two conditions for us to enter into coalition negotiations at all: to agree to the house-capitators and to note that the early pension scheme will be abolished. Because the fairy tale is repeated over and over again, against every pension reform the trade unionists, they wall off and are not ready to negotiate, I tell you – I can prove it because there are the relevant decisions –: For a decade and a half, we have called for a comprehensive pension reform! But you've never been able to get through. And on the proposals made by our party chairman on the reform of the pension system, you have not been able to get through either because you were again afraid that you would not get to the brink with your clientele. For a pure money acquisition action, as you plan, by always turning on two screws only when it comes to a pension reform – to work longer and to raise the retirement age and to get less pension – we are not at your disposal as a trade unionist, ladies and gentlemen of the government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are at your disposal – and this offer applies, we are also in opposition to you as a trade unionist – if you make a comprehensive reform, a comprehensive reform that leads to more justice in our pension system. This starts with the contributions: Everyone should pay the same contribution, and then everyone should get the same. But to turn again only at the screw of the ASVG, with the ASVG insurers need the lowest federal grant, namely only 14 percent, because they pay 86 percent themselves, is not correct. Then, justifiably, we also need to talk about the self-employed, who only contribute 46 percent, and the farmers with only 28 percent. It is also a question of achieving the same basis of assessment and not having the calculation period throughout life, while the other may be retired with 80 percent of the last reference. We will be at your disposal for a comprehensive reform. The result of your last reform has shown: We had a rapid increase after the early retirement age had been raised by only one and a half years. The number of unemployed women over 55 years of age has exploded by 80 percent, and in men it was 117 percent. Perhaps you haven't registered it, but half of those people who retire today don't get out of active professional life into retirement, but they're leaving emergency aid or retirement from unemployment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are not available for such a policy. If you want to talk to us about reasonable reforms, we are ready to talk.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13327	Mr Spindelegger came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13346	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The succus of this urgent request is an interesting one: Today the SPÖ has complained and lamented that it will not be represented in this government constellation of the future. That was the succus. But, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, it has also occurred in this debate where your deficits lie. I would like to address this one a little. The first major deficit with you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, is the question of leadership. While your chairman, Dr. Gusenbauer, has declared in the election campaign: At second place the opposition, that is so!, everything changed after the election. [[Abg. Conspicuous: How was that with you?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Wait, colleagues from the Social Democrats! I would like to thank him for having, after the election, understood the need to negotiate. But while he was negotiating, the second row already blew the opposition march, ladies and gentlemen. That was the interesting one that apparently lets great conclusions on the leadership structure of your party. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Chaotic!]] If I read today in the APA what Mrs Burgstaller will say tomorrow in "NEWS", namely that she already wants new faces at the SPÖ party headquarters again, then I can only say: Ladies and gentlemen, this is the state of the SPÖ! Obviously there is a management problem here. - That's your first big deficit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The second major deficit, which you have shown openly today, ladies and gentlemen, is your ability to resolve. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder.]] Like Mr Nürnberger, you have gladly offered us that we can talk to you about reasonable reforms. But what you have done so far, especially in securing the first pillar of the pension to which we strive, is plenty of. I can remind you again: In the election campaign, SPÖ Chairman Gusenbauer stated in a television discussion that ÖVP would like to intervene in existing pensions. He wrote a letter to every pensioner in this regard – to suggest, after the election, that you actually have to intervene in existing pensions! Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to remind you that an intervention in existing rights would be a breach of a principle in our Republic and that what you have proposed would be a “Peanut” and could not secure the first pillar. – Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, you have to prove your solutions first. That's a big deficit with you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should like to mention a third major deficit, which has also taken place today, you want to rule along, but you lack political responsibility. You yourself have also decided on the questions of the post-retirement: 1999 in the Council of State Defense, 2000 in a government agreement with us that had not been reached at that time, in which this question had been put out of dispute. ==References== You were suddenly opposed by February 2000 and vehemently until today. And I prophesy: If you had joined the government, it would not have been a problem again! Ladies and gentlemen! State-bearing elements, which a party of the size of SPÖ must have, must not be questioned in any way, whether one receives applause for it or one of the wind blows into the face. You have a great deficit, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, and this also disqualifies you for government negotiations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore like to draw my summary from today's debate on the urgent question: You have complained – at least I have heard this out of the words of your chairman Alfred Gusenbauer – that you will not sit at a government table with the ÖVP. Others in your party like to see it differently. But, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, before you have clearly clarified the question of leadership before you prove your ability to resolve and before you can find back to state-bearing elements, you will be disqualified for government cooperation in the long term. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'm sorry to have to find out today.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13444	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. It is his second word. The overall speaking time must not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13462	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! I would like to comment on Mr Nürnberger's speech and also on what Mr Vergestnich said: It turned out that my choice of words, during the final phase of the 1997 pension reform, was the majority of parliament in hostagery of the social-democratic union, insofar as we were in hostagery of the ÖGB. – But I do not want that in the future, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13503	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. No applications have been made, so we can proceed to the next item in the negotiations. Short debate on Question Time 10/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13527	The next item in the negotiations is a short debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour with the order number 10/AB. The above-mentioned answer has been distributed in the meeting room, so there is no need for a reading by a writer. We are going into the debate. You all know the Rules of Procedure: No speaker longer than 5 minutes, the first speaker 10 minutes, an arbitrary opinion of a member of the government should also not take more than 10 minutes. First speaker, Mrs Mag. Lunacek for a maximum of 10 minutes the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13558	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we had a discussion of the question to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour concerning the GATS negotiations, the information to the public and the content of the demand lists put on the agenda, so to speak, in order to address the current GATS negotiations. It is my first knowledge that we are discussing this issue here in Parliament. There was once a discussion in the subcommittee of the EU's main committee, which was also required of us, but otherwise this important international agreement, which is currently being negotiated, would not really be a contradiction in this Parliament if we did not constantly insist on it. Let me first consider what this GATS is at all and what is behind this abbreviation. For those who have not yet done so, it may be difficult to understand what this is about: This is about the general agreement on trade in services, which was co-founded as a framework agreement under the 1995 WTO, and not about, because now services account for 60 percent of the global gross social product, with a significant difference between services and their share of GNP in OECD countries – about 65 percent – and in low-income countries – only around 38 percent. Thus, services have a different impact on gross social product. Overall, however, services account for only about 20 to 25 percent of the total world trade. With GATS, a liberalisation offensive has been launched, so to speak, in order to unlock the dwindling potential of this sector. You can see from the data that I first mentioned that 65 percent of services are already traded in the OECD, that, above all, the industrialized countries are to benefit greatly from it and, as is known, most companies are anchored there and are looking for these further markets. Some will ask what the problem is. – There are several reasons, and some of them I would like to mention here. First of all, some services mainly perform a cross-sectoral function and form the basis for several sectors, such as telecommunications, the Internet, electronic commerce et cetera. However, they also have a very important social importance in ensuring general welfare, i.e. a social importance that goes beyond economic function, e.g. in education and health, as well as in the areas of water supply and disposal, waste disposal et cetera. A third point that makes trade in services so particularly relevant to society is that there is a particular proximity to people. This is quite different from the goods that are traded with. In the services, the people involved are so necessary, and it is also about the people who then have access to the hospital, to the doctor, to the education system, whether the water supply works or not if they live far away and perhaps do not have as much money to afford it. These are some reasons why trade in services in many countries, especially in Europe, but also in some developing countries, is more domestically regulated than trade in goods. And this is rightly so, because it is so to speak, that the state is taking part in ensuring that this general provision can be ensured for all people in that state, that not only the interests of individual companies, who work mainly profit-oriented and not pre-care-oriented, are observed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The problem with GATS is also that the liberalisations that have once entered into force can no longer be reversed – or almost no more. If a country insists that too much has been liberalized, a conversion is only possible if high compensation payments are made and at the same time another area is offered. – This is therefore extremely difficult in reality. Why have we now called for this answer to the question? – The response to the question was mainly about public information, the information of Parliament. It is true, as mentioned in the reply to the question, that some information has now also been entered into the clubs, but only after we and also many non-governmental organisations have put great pressure on us to have a more open and public debate on what Austria and the European Union will offer for liberalisation, and in which areas other countries of ours – from Austria and the EU – want to open up the service sector. Mr Bartenstein! At the meeting of the EU Subcommittee on 27 November, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the implementation of the common position. Mr President, I would like to quote from your own issue of the time, that you have regularly held coordination meetings at the Ministry of Economic Affairs for affected regions and social partners, and that information events would also be organised regularly for the parliamentary clubs as well as NGOs. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] Minister! That's where we see the big problem: For the departments and even for the social partners, there are coordination meetings, with Parliament there are information events – section head Mayer is very much trying to inform Members too – but in Parliament to debate the content and to decide what Austria should offer and what the Austrian Federal Government should represent in the European Commission, what the EU should or should not offer, that has not yet happened. Minister! We call for this debate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You also write in your answer to the question that the demand lists have been drawn up by the European Commission on the basis of its contacts with the public, the European services industry and so on. Do you know how these “contacts to the public ” looked? – Commissioner Lamy called in November or December to send suggestions by e-mail or by post to the Commission, and then the Commission decided what would be included and what would not be included. However, I imagine the involvement of the public as something different than simply sending emails and then deciding what is coming in and what is not. This is not the way in which the public should be informed, Minister. You also announce in your response that you would have insisted that the EU should explicitly exclude access to the water resource, the privatisation of water supply, the cross-border transport of water, that this will actually be so. That may be true, but do you know what has happened in the meantime? – Although the EU has said that it will not offer this in its own field, it wants to liberalise this liberalisation from developing countries. In the British “Guardian” it was only a few days ago that the EU demanded, for example, that Bolivia should leave foreign water companies and companies in the country – a country in which the largest city has only recently had a public uproar and resistance, as water prices have risen by 200 percent, because there was already a foreign company; one of the poorest countries in the world, Mr. Minister! This is what the EU now demands from many countries! And here you tell us that you do not want to discuss this in Parliament, and do you agree with all that the European Commission has in mind? Minister! In this respect, they do not only receive from the Green Criticism side. You will also receive them in your own ranks. Only last week was a long article about Engerwitzdorf in Upper Austria in the Vienna city newspaper “Falter”, where the ÖVP mayor of this place signed the call of the “Stoppt GATS” campaign and sent it to you. He says: We community politicians just have the ear where one hears what the citizens think. Minister! You and others always say: Don't panic, it's all right, we don't do anything anyway that could somehow put the general care at risk! – Minister! If it really is, then make it public! Discuss You're public here in Parliament about this! Then the decisions are to be taken here and not simply by the European Commission without Parliament involvement. These decisions have to be made here because they concern people in this country, in the EU and also in other countries of the world. We demand this involvement!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13683	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Bartenstein. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13704	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lunacek, in my view, your introductory sentences were in many respects a clear support of GATS and the interest of Austria, but also the interest of developing countries in liberalising services. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: But you interpret it!]] They said that in the OECD countries – and Austria is quite on average – 65 percent of gross domestic product is generated with services, but only 38 percent in the developing countries. Of course, the liberalisation of services within the meaning of GATS is also a way to increase the share of services and thus the added value in developing countries. This is precisely one reason why GATS should continue to liberalise it, that there should be a second stage and that this should be done in the context of the Doha Development Round, the Doha Development Round, as part of the second WTO round. They themselves say there is a slumbering potential. We want to raise this in the interests of the Austrians, but also in the interests of the developing countries, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: But not in public general care!]] First, let me say something to the interest of Austria: 65 per cent share of gross domestic product. We are one of the world's leading service exporters, have a world market share of 2.1 percent and are 13. Job. Although we are a very successful export country, we only have 1 percent market share in goods exports and are here at 24. Job. In the service sector, a volume of €37 billion is already being handled, and this is strongly on the rise, as you, Mrs Lunacek, have also indirectly conceded. I say it quite clearly: It is in our own interest to operate GATS, to say no to “Stop GATS” and to advance this liberalisation, just as it is in the interests of developing countries. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: This may be in your interest, but not in your interest...!]] Questioning the distribution of competence within the European Union is legitimate, but not very useful, because the Commission is competent and therefore responsible in external trade issues and thus also in GATS issues. Austria, like all other Member States, is fully involved in the Article 133 Committee. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we take care of our interests. We attach importance to the fact that there are no offers on the part of Austria or the European Union in the field of education, health, audio or video. There is also no GATS offer as part of the latest offers made by the European Union, officially placed on the table in Geneva at the end of March, which has been unofficially accessible through NGOs in the light of the Internet. Mrs Lunacek! That you call the water supply in a breath with the wastewater treatment and say, even in the wastewater treatment and in the waste disposal there should be nothing, I don't understand. I think this is an area in which many things in Austria are relatively favourable and working well because of deregulation measures. As a rule, there are domestic and no foreign companies operating here in Austria, but that would not be the problem either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] GATS is not an agreement which explicitly relies on reciprocity. GATS is not an agreement that calls for deregulation or even privatisation, but only domestic equal treatment and market access and its opening up. Transparency and non-discrimination are the principles of GATS. Mrs Lunacek! There were probably four parties who gave their approval here in the House about a decade ago. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: What? Not the greens!]] To ensure transparency, I can assure you that we are the EU Member State, which benefits most from the opportunities given in the information transfer to Parliament, from NGOs. The fact that there is a classification between interministerial coordination and information on civil society is, of course, limited to GATS. Ladies and gentlemen! Not only has there been information events of the section head Mayer, whom you have also appreciated, since some pressure, but since October 2001, there have been a total of six informative events to which MEPs or parliament clubs have been invited. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: It is about Parliament's co-decision!]] I can confirm to the Green Group that it was the one most often aware of these invitations. I should also like to say that Parliament has been informed to a great extent, in the truest sense of the word, because the stacks of the transmitted papers have reached considerable heights. [[Abg. Oillingers: We can't decide!]] I know, but that's how it is with a lot of paper. It is the European Union's demand lists to no less than 109 WTO Member States. The final demand lists were sent to Parliament on 20 June 2002. July of the year 2002. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Minister! It's about co-decision!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The demand lists of WTO Member States were sent to the European Union in five consignments. To date, claims from 26 WTO member countries have been made. As regards the draft European Union offer – which was the discussion of the last few weeks – this draft list was sent to us by the European Commission on 6 June. This year is reported on February. We already have them on 7 July. ==References== – It’s certainly not faster! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, therefore, the maximum possible involvement of Parliament and NGOs in this country, the exploitation of all the possibilities that the confidentiality bids allow – confidentiality bids, which ultimately also serve to ensure that the European Union can be closed at the WTO level. First, there needs to be an internal coordination, before the European Union in Geneva or Doha, or then in Cancún outside, with a voice that allows the maximum for itself and its Member States to be reached by their citizens. [[Abg. Oils: Not confidentiality!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I conclude by saying: GATS – namely GATS – is in the interest of this country, GATS is in the interests of its citizens, its economy, its jobs. That is, we do not want to open those areas in which it is not necessary. But I warn against stylizing GATS into a fetish. I warn against the fact that all those who are actually counter-privatisation, counter-globalization, are now drawing GATS to it. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen – and above all I look left! Let us not pretend, as if education, as if health in that country were exclusively public. No, no, no, Thank God there are private educational institutions, thank God there are private health institutions, and the co-existence of private and public works very well in this area, and so it should remain. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13845	Please, Mr. Minister! And thank you. Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13869	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is also a new word this year that needs to be kept in order to have discussions up to the classes at the schools, and this word is called GATS. In the previous year, we discussed Basel II with much more content and with much more permission. Now this word “GATS” is used to create a fetish discussion that I do not think is justified in looking at the process that has been initiated. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: For you this is a fetish!]] Mrs. Lunacek! If you say that the whole thing is mainly in the interest of the big corporations that wanted to maximize profits, then forget that at 4. The WTO conference – you mentioned the Doha Ministerial Conference – was decided by 145 states and two thirds of the participants came from developing countries. Of course, the possibility of liberalising should actually benefit developing countries, as this is also a study by the World Bank. [[Abg. Oellinger: Should be!]] If nothing is done, if there is no equal opportunities there, then these countries will never go in the direction of those standards in the service sector that other countries have already achieved. It was therefore in the interest of the developing countries that these negotiations were started. The issue in itself is certainly a sensitive issue, and in fact it should be dealt with as well. Instead, we can observe on the Internet and even in various school classes that it is claimed that this is the wrong approach, it is a threat to democracy, and the entire provision of services would be at risk because health, pensions, education, water supply, postal and electricity would be liberalised or, as is said, privatized. However, privatisation does not occur in the GATS negotiations. There is the possibility of creating our own offer in such a way that all these sensitive areas are excluded, and that is exactly what has happened. Furthermore, there is no obligation at all to privatise in these areas. And because it is not reziprok, it is necessary in the national field to demand all the conditions for tariffs, prices and quality of supply, and that is how it should be dealt with. That means: You have all these possibilities here in the national area, no one can strongly recommend or even octroy you. So there would have been possibilities of influence. That is why I do not understand the fact that this is being done very well and that the impression is being given – Mr President Vergestnich, I too would like to address you. – that you could stop GATS now. Like many others, the union is involved in the “Stop GATS!” campaign. You should really ask yourself what's behind that when you ask for it. A ongoing process, of which 145 countries felt that something positive would come about in general, should not actually be disturbed and interrupted. In addition, we would behave unolidarically within the EU, we would sound like a single country, and that without any results at all. It must also be seen that what has been so far was actually just pre-negotiations. ==References== The final offer list will be drawn up in March. So there is also the possibility that the Austrian Parliament will act. The Ministry's response to the request documents how it happened that there had been a wide variety of possibilities – and they have partly been perceived – to contribute. In the final effect, as with other Article 133 procedures, the social partners have also used this possibility and delivered opinions accordingly. It's something quite normal and not unusual. Therefore, I do not understand at all why, before the conclusion of the whole matter has been reached, one suddenly spends “Stop GATS!” as a slogan. Moreover, the transparency of a process should not be equated with the public response. My position is: This process is excellently documented, as has now been presented in the response to the request, and has been transparent and open. He didn't have the public you wanted. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, you can still discuss this very seriously in the public. But I think absolutely nothing of it when you paint ghosts, fear slogans or other things on the wall. It's school classes, it's the Catholic young man, and whoever doesn't deserve it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13937	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13955	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a very brief look at the comments made by my predecessor. It was no coincidence that in the last two years two topics have determined the discussion: Basel II and GATS. There is also a fundamental problem of democracy: On the one hand, there are world rules in which many countries are involved, and on the other hand, there is the very concrete regional and national concern. This defines a field of tension that leads to uncertainty. But now, in general, to the GATS: Why is GATS so important to us? The figures have already been mentioned: Especially in Austria, the share of the service sector in GDP is very high, with a significant contribution to tourism. In addition, this area is growing and is also of increasing importance for the future of the country. The timeline has already been addressed: The EU must submit the offer list until 31. Finish March of this year. So there is now a chance to bring points in, and we should also benefit from them. This is particularly important because it will be extremely difficult to reduce liberalisation once again. It is precisely because this process is so complex because there is such a great deal of concern in many sectors, because the outcome of the negotiations is uncertain and because the impact of the negotiation results on our country is not known, transparency cannot be large enough. Transparency can also take fears, because if people are well informed if they are already well integrated in advance, then many fears can be cleared out, and thus you can also better carry out the process. At least this transparency was not everywhere as described here. In this respect, there is a need to rethink, and this, although I have to admit, is very good for the ministerial information: You're very eclectic and you get very good information sent to you. However, it is also so important for Parliament to debate this issue intensively in this House, because then the negotiator of the Austrian Federal Government can go on to the negotiation, as he knows most of the people behind him. The list now available shows that the health, social, water, educational services, audiovisual and fashion 4 sectors have been partially removed. We also know, however, that there are many EU countries, such as France, which strongly insists that water supply should return to the list. The same applies to the field of education, which England and Holland are trying to re-submit to the list. It is therefore very important to call on our negotiators to remain very hard on these points. The same applies to general care. Here, too, where we have formulated a horizontal reservation on public utilities, it is important to ensure that this reservation is maintained, because only in this way will this large area, which includes many thousands of employees, be taken into account accordingly. There is no question here whether it should be private or not. The “mode 4” area is also very important: We need to be very careful about cross-border passenger transport. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Take care of the interests of developing countries! That's what they want!]] There is a risk that social, labour and other obligations in Austria will be undermined by the creation of sham companies. I would like to ask for scientific foundations from our government and, in particular, from Mr Minister. I do not know any studies on the effects of the previous liberalisation steps. I believe that this would be essential for the communication of knowledge, but also for the education, so that we should be less afraid. If we were also given studies on future scenarios, we could address the problem much more aggressive and offensively. I therefore call on you to initiate such studies and then also to ensure transparency so that fear does not arise at all and does not require so much follow-up to clarify questions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e13995	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14013	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I note that this consultation did not really affect the questions that have now been answered. It is therefore not true that the questions addressed to the Federal Minister had not been answered sufficiently, at least I conclude from the comments of Mr Lunacek, who expressed her concerns and explained her point of view. I also note that the information available on GATS, in my opinion, has produced transparency in the context of the possibilities. I also note that there has been information from the Ministry to the parliamentary club and that the Ministry has also remained guilty of any critical questions that have been asked. Granted, however, there are fears in various areas. It remains to be noted that there have been no claims from the Republic of Austria in the context of the European Union information procedure. I am very pleased that, especially in sensitive areas, such as water supply, with regard to access to resources, the question of the privatisation of water supply and also, as regards the cross-border transport of water, it is clear that this is explicitly excluded. Although the comparison with liberalisation in the field of electricity and the electricity industry can be made quite simply, the service as such is not comparable, because there can be no contamination or spread of contamination in electrical lines and there is no technical control in the supply. This is certainly different when it comes to water supply. The list of offers seems essential to me. And here there are no offers from the sides of Austria – so my information stand – but probably a list of offers that have now been sent to us. The question arises whether sensitive areas such as water, health, education or public transport are affected. My knowledge is not the case. In this context, I agree to ask the question to the Federal Minister whether, up to the negotiations or in the course of the further procedure, this list of offers could be extended to include practical or, at least, theoretically possible. I should like to express my gratitude at this point for the voluntary information provided by the Ministry of Economic Affairs by Mr Mayer. As a participant of such information events, I know that section head Mayer did not push himself to pass on information, and I do not remember that he would have remained guilty of information to the parliamentary clubs in any form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14053	As the next and last speaker, Mrs Sburny spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14071	Mr President. Minister! High house! The answer given by Mr Bartenstein to the Green Group's question on the From my point of view, public information on GATS negotiations is symptomatic of dealing with information on this issue in general. Federal Minister! You have informed us when you have forwarded what information to Parliament and where we can inform ourselves on the Internet. We found this, we did it. However, the fact is that all this information is, of course, only those who will be granted to us by the EU Commission. That is, it is only a part of the information. I would like to point out three examples of the problem of this confidentiality policy: We are now aware of the demands of the WTO Member States to the EU, but with two significant exceptions, namely the USA and Australia. The demands of these two states are so secret that they cannot even see the parliamentarians. That is, none of us know what demands these two countries have made to the EU. Secondly, The information we receive is also the last of the 7th. February, i.e. the provisional list of offers, are strictly secret, are confidential. But that also means that we should not actually pass it on. But how should the public be informed about these processes if we only receive confidential documents in Parliament? Thirdly, This issue of the European Commission and the water liberalisation requirements for developing countries is not as trusting as it is. It was true that the EU Commission still claimed in autumn that it would not impose liberalisation requirements on developing countries. Meanwhile, an indiscretion has become known that there are liberal demands. That is to say, the question of the reasons for this confidentiality policy is justified. What should be prevented from doing so? What discussion should be prevented from taking place? In our opinion, the people have a right to be informed and to discuss what liberalisation steps are to be taken by Austria and the EU. Why the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour in Austria is not particularly committed to the abolition of this secrecy within the EU, we have already heard some of it from the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. He believes that these GATS liberalisation steps would be absolutely positive for Austria. In response to a question, it has already stated that the GATS is in principle a ‘balanced agreement’ that ‘ takes account of the different social, legal and economic circumstances in each country’. Similarly, in this reply, the Federal Minister stated that no one could force Member States to liberalise them. This is a purely formal or legal position, so to speak, which reflects the current legal situation. The fact is, however, that this position completely ignores any disparity of interest, any momentum in the negotiations. We still do not know what will be negotiated in Cancún in autumn. We now have at least some of the offers. But we do not know at all, for example, how that looks in other countries, what is wanted or not. If the Austrian Parliament itself has to ratify certain areas, which in part will be necessary, for example in the field of health and education, then I believe that the public debate should take place in advance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In other words, in the case of such a response to the question, there are not partial replies and references to where one could at all be informed, of interest, but of complete information, which can also be discussed in the public in order to reach a democratic decision. This may also include a commitment at EU level to the end of this confidentiality policy. In this sense, from our point of view, the answers of the Federal Minister are insufficient, and I request that the answer to the question be rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14152	No one is reporting on this. The request was made not to take note of the answer to the question. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. 6. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Terezija Stoisits, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Foreign Law in 1997 (20/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14189	We are now continuing on the agenda and coming to 6. I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Stoisits. I'll give her the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14213	Mr President. – It is not a minister to welcome. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Green Group, I tabled an own-initiative proposal at the first meeting of the National Council in December, which, in one sentence, has the content of the so-called integration agreement, which the blue and black Federal Government decided last year and the one with 1. This year's entry into force, with its particularly negative effects being reversed. This so-called integration agreement has several characteristics of a senseless one, because it is deeply incorrect in the way of integration policies in Austria. An example of this is the question of compulsory German language learning and citizenship. This involves sanctions that can no longer be exceeded in their drama, such as the expulsion of immigrants from the country. – We want to know these most drastic parts of the change of the Foreign Law last year. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal not only provides for the removal of certain paragraphs, but primarily includes a real change of direction in the context of integration policy in Austria. In this proposal, we state that: "Foreign nationals who are permanently resident in Austria are supported by the Federal Government and by countries by the offer of voluntary German language courses in their linguistic and social integration." Our basic understanding of integration policies is that the Federal Government and the Länder provide offers to a sufficient extent and on conditions that allow immigrants to make real use of them – that is, cost-effective offers. That is why this proposal includes measures in the direction – I put it together briefly – that there should be incentive instead of sanction when it comes to offers for integration. The so-called integration agreement or the integration agreement, which has now been in force for almost two months, is a dictatorship for supposed social integration, which new immigrants are exposed to. For us, however, social integration goes far beyond language acquisition. If a immigrant society – and we are such – is actually interested in the integration of immigrants in our country, then integration into the labour market, legal and social equality of immigrants, social participation and, above all, political participation rights. All of this, of course, must have legal foundations so that it can be implemented into reality as well. Regrettably and completely counterproductive for the integration of immigrants in Austria, the path of forced, the dictatorship, disintegration was chosen. I hope that the Committee on the Interior of the National Council will soon be able to discuss this proposal for an initiative, especially the initial experience already gained with the measures envisaged. Our request builds on the voluntary nature of linguistic and social integration with sufficient and favourable offers for German courses. It is important for us to note that these sanctions against future immigrants, especially those who are already here – for these sanctions and threats are primarily directed against immigrants who are already in the country and have already moved their food point to Austria, which is why the threatening effects of this law must also be very and so drastic in the lives of every individual, family life and social life – simply and simply eliminated from the Austrian foreign law! With the introduction of this initiative proposal, the Greens have already taken a first step in this direction at the first meeting of the National Council, and I hope that after the discussion in the Committee on the Interior will receive your approval! I hope that not only, but I am convinced that this is a question of reason, of logical thinking and of good will in the sense of a social situation in Austria, in which immigrants are dealt with in an integral way and are not excluded, just as the policies of the black and blue government were in the past and – and there is a threat of evil! – also seems to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14267	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. The clock is set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14286	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Stoisits, I am looking forward to the discussion with you in the Committee on the Interior, because I really do not understand your argumentation and, above all, the argumentation of the Greens. Mrs Stoisits, for at least 20 years we have been talking and discussing the integration of resident visitors in Austria. To date, however, only discussions have been held, but nothing has been done. The ‘Schüssel I’ government was the first to say: We do not just want to discuss integration theoretically, but we want to start in practice, we want to do something! And I think we agree that the language is one of the most important conditions for later integration! – Mrs. Stoisits does not listen to me today. I can't ask her to listen to me. – Mrs. Stoisits! Why don't you borrow me? Your ear? Without the language, integration will not work. By law, we have now decided that the federal government is seeking an offer of foreign citizens who want to settle in Austria, which means that an appropriate infrastructure is provided and a good part of this language course is paid. I think we can meet with the Greens and the SPÖ. There will be no one here in the house who can really be against it! The Republic of Austria pays 50 percent of the courses and sets up an infrastructure, and we can expect, as a counter-service from the citizens for whom it is set up, that they also accept this facility and this offer. Then it is probably not too much to demand when you say that someone who does not adhere to it violates the agreed rules of the game, which in a certain form results in consequences. Mrs Stoisits, I can't help you: What you have discussed earlier may be of interest to some of the green club, but it has long been no longer interested in foreigners living with us. The latter say: Thank God there is an offer! Thank God we can take a German course! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Mrs Stoisits! I call you the example of a 40-year-old Turkish wife who has lived in Graz for more than four years and has not been able to leave the apartment until now. – We know how this culture and the Turkish men deal with women! – The woman mentioned has been living in Austria for four years and has not yet spoken any English syllables. This woman may have to go to the doctor, perhaps even to the female doctor and then have to be translated by her eight-year-old son, what the doctor tells her! You can probably imagine what that means to this woman! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] Now let's put the case that this 40-year-old Turkish woman will leave her husband tomorrow. In your opinion, what will this woman experience? – She neither knows herself nor is she powerful in the German language. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – Mrs Colleague! I would like to discuss this more intensively with you, because this cannot be treated with superficial speech messages and intermediate calls! [[Abg. Silhavy: Just like that!]] Mrs. Colleague! I want integration to be lived and not just demanded! And the ÖVP with the government “Schüssel I” was the first to really act! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the Greens.]] In the meantime, the SPÖ and its Ministers of the Interior have only talked about integration, but have done nothing for it! Mr Stoisits! We're talking about this 40-year-old Turkish woman. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] I like to talk about it too! I would like to ask this 40-year-old woman whether she accepts the offer or not. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The offer is great anyway!]] What will she answer me in your opinion? What theoretical discussion does Parliament hold here, and who represents the Greens in this context? – I believe that the Green Party has its merits in its struggle for integration! I believe that you have succeeded a lot, and I believe that in this context also demanding requests have their meaning again and again. But I mean, it's not good and it's good to question things that have long been accepted again and again, because it's not just doing anything but doing good things bad. I warn against this, and I am really sorry that the Green Group so misinterprets and makes bad the really positive approach to the integration of foreign citizens. I am proud and happy that we have been so successful in this area!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14378	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14396	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a request from the Greens aimed at amending the Foreign Law, which is about amending the compulsory provision regarding the introduction of German courses in the direction that these courses are offered on a voluntary basis. This gives me an opportunity, in principle, to say a few words about it. Ladies and gentlemen! We are committed to integration policy, it is necessary, and we need it. And it is also true that people who come to our country must have the opportunity to learn our language. However, we believe that this is rather counterproductive in the form of a forced measure. It would have been a major failure – and we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss this issue in the Committee on the Interior – to create incentives in this regard and make this integration agreement a real agreement. At present, it is a diktat: It is required by the foreigner that he has to learn German and threatens to be punished or postponed if he does not. On the other hand, he really has no rights, Mr Deputies or Mr Strasser! [[Abg. Dr. Strasser: This is the untruth!]] I mean, in reality, many people who come to our country can achieve a lot of motivation, because many want to learn the language. For example, motivatingly, a reward for the rapid completion of such a German course could be in the form that the person will then receive his permission of establishment within five years. Instead of compulsion, there should be a corresponding incentive! Mr Miedl! Second, I wanted to say that the offer is missing in far-reaching areas. A special exception is the city of Vienna, where the Integration Fund already did very good work in 2001, before this legal measure, and where more than 2,500 people in more than 170 courses offered an appropriate opportunity. Federal Minister! We must also address the problem that there are currently a number of suppliers who do not offer the necessary quality, namely the required A level. The result is that there are foreigners who take a German course that is not recognized. [[Abg. Dr. Straster: There are 500 providers!]] This has not yet become clear enough, but we will have the opportunity to talk about it in the Committee. Mr Miedl! We should also see a problem, namely: What will we do with those women who come to Austria as illiterate women, speak their own mother tongue de facto, but cannot write and are unable... – But it will always remain a question of how to prove it! [[Abg. Dr. Strasser: You are excluded from the rules!]] Federal Minister! I mean, you should look at that very carefully! [[Abg. Dr. Strasser: As a speaker you should also know something about a biterl!]] – A very funny remark, Minister of State! We will see in the Committee what you have to say about this and how you are willing to address these problems. We are committed to integration policy. We are also concerned with the people who come to our country. I have only the concern that the politics you have pursued so far, namely trying to force people into a corset, according to the famous method of black and blue into the corset of Law and Order, simply does not offer the opportunities that people need to feel comfortable in our country and become citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14482	The next speaker is Mr Walch. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14501	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stoisits, I am a little surprised about the change to the Foreign Law. I'm a works councillor in a construction company that employs about 50 guest workers, and I can tell you: I haven't heard of any criticism! It is even the opposite! I just want to know where or who is being criticized on your side! In fact, everyone tells us that he is happy to have the opportunity to receive and receive financial support and that in the future those who want to have employment in Austria will also have the opportunity to get such a one. No guest worker who comes to Austria and does not have the power of the German language will get a job. If an employer does take him up, he will get less employment because he cannot express himself. The offer of language courses is a good thing for both the host worker and the farmer. The host worker is then in a positive situation. I believe that the current situation is a bit of a polemic, and I am also looking forward to the discussion in the Committee, because I can only say: When guest workers come to Austria, they don't come to Austria for three weeks – they don't need to be powerful – but if they want to work in Austria, they also need to understand our language – for the benefit of both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14534	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14552	Mr President. High house! The legal situation in Austria is as follows: Anyone who receives a branch permit is committed to learning German in an integration agreement. – We also expect this from people who have been around for the last five years. That's it. We pay for the price. Anyone who needs a course will receive a grant of 182 €. This is so much that the Red Cross, which needs to be thanked for it, is even ready to find out with these 182 € for students who cannot pay the rest of the course costs. Whoever does not need a course and only one exam to make sure that he fulfils the A1 qualification, receives a grant of €22. So that's a good thing. It's very easy: If you want to come to Austria and stay here, you need the language; if you don't want to stay, perhaps you don't need the language, you may need no knowledge, but you certainly don't need a branch permit. Then what's the theater for? – That’s so logical, that’s so correct and so simple! Everyone understands, and I don't understand why a big problem should arise right here. Today, immigration from third countries is strictly limited. Whoever lives here is supposed to be able to work. The first qualification barrier – the previous speaker said it – is the language. There's no question at all: You have to be able to express yourself in order to do a job properly. So far, it has been shown that many problems have arisen because knowledge of the language is missing. Near my home there is a kindergarten in one place with four kindergarten groups on three establishments. In one part there is a high proportion of Turkish-born children, there are also some Bosnians and Slovaks. Unfortunately, many of the mothers are not linguistic – with us in Lower Austria the kindergarten is free of charge, so many Turkish children are also in the kindergarten because it can also afford people who just have a narrow income – and if you talk to the kindergarten aunt then find out They often ask themselves the question: What do I do if the child is sick when the child breaks down when the child shows symptoms in view of which parents have to be asked urgently what is going on? – She calls home and cannot understand. What does the mother do if she has to communicate to the child or if written communication is required for the child to be given to the parents? - I can't. The problem starts when you register for a kindergarten visit. We already have prefabricated forms in Turkish, so that you can even come into communication. In order to solve the problem, one has employed a Turkish speaking assistant, with the result that the children now no longer learn German and the problem in the kindergarten only gets bigger. Many parents say: If I can choose it, I will send my children to a kindergarten, where you can also receive funding in German. If we miss out on time in integration and do not achieve the urgently necessary – if it has to be, even with some emphasis – then there are problems that grow into major problems. We know that many women from Anatolia cannot learn German. We see this because even after a long stay so many women speak only very, very little German. If you ask, you know very quickly that men simply don't want their women to learn German, that they can develop a certain independence, maybe even buy themselves, maybe even go to a normal supermarket or see offers they shouldn't see. It is high time to counter this, and it is absolutely right to give women the chance – the chance to give! – to visit a course that they must “visit” – under quotation marks – because otherwise there are all kinds of consequences. It is a social weakness that can be remedied. The commitment to language courses opens our country to many people who are already here. The language course gives us the opportunity to really participate in what is happening with us. The commitment will help over the first obstacle. Already Seneca said: Whoever wants, he can, who doesn't have to. – Living together is encouraged positively, and integration is facilitated. And that's good. This law will be discussed in the Committee and will certainly also have to be asked why only the immigrants of the last five years should have the opportunity to take a supported German course. The period should be extended. The discussion about it will certainly be interesting.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14623	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14641	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The present proposal proposes to amend parts of the right of foreigners, in particular those parts which have only been changed in recent months or years. In one case, I would like to show you the consequences of the 2002 change in the right of foreigners. A man gets to know a woman. He's Vienna, she's from Ukraine. They fall in love with each other, from the initial distance relationship becomes more. She married, she moved to Vienna with her now nine-year-old son. She learns German and can now be perfect, her son also – without compulsion, without any risk of punishment. He attends the folk school, is class best, she is a salesman in the department store Steffl. After four years Marriage the man thinks she should apply for citizenship. She does. All the conditions are fulfilled, it receives the assurance notice. After receiving the assurance, she goes to the Ukrainian message because she has to lay down her old citizenship and also the citizenship of her son. Such a thing takes months or years. That's the same thing in this case. A few days before she receives confirmation from the Ukrainian message that she has been released from Ukrainian citizenship, her husband is sick. On Thursday he goes to the doctor, on Friday he comes to the hospital and on Saturday he dies; at 59 years. - So far, so bad. But it's getting worse. With the confirmation, she now goes to the town hall and wants to pick up the new citizenship. But she does not get it because the conditions for granting citizenship are no longer available because she is no longer married to an Austrian. Now it is stateless and can get Austrian citizenship at the earliest in two years, the Ukrainian citizen only once again in three years. - So far, so bad. But it's getting worse. On the one hand, she wants to visit her sick mother, who is now 72 years old, and on the other hand, how she does this every year, on the day of her father's death, where the whole family meets. It would also receive a passport, a travel document for the stateless, which applies to all the countries of this earth, only to Ukraine, because the foreign law in this House was renewed half a year ago and § 80 para. 2 It has been adapted that it can travel to all the countries of this earth, only not into this. I invite you all to find a solution not only for this case, for this woman, but also for the many other cases that exist. In particular, I invite Minister Strasser – who is not now in the hall – to do so, to look at such cases and to step up the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14695	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14714	Mr President. Mrs Stoisits has once again made a start in Subject matter of your favorite theme: Foreigners. – Mrs Stoisits, I would like you to come out here only once, once and only half as committed to the concerns of the Austrians. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is unheard of!]] No, no, no, It's always foreigners, it's permanently the topic of foreigners. [[Abg. Oillinger: Get out with a new government!]] In your reasoning, you speak of a dictatorship for new immigrants, but the matter is quite simple. Point one: The barn gate is simply not open any more. Accordingly, the following point two: Our goal is primarily to integrate before new immigration. And integration has so far only failed. That is what Mrs Mag has been saying. Stoisits also explained anyway. We have now adopted a new regulation, because we have seen that this integration has not yet been targeted, but has only been flawed. Yes, we want to know within three years whether someone is willing and willing to integrate or not. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You want to know that?]] That's what we want to know. Integration can, please, only be done via a language. You know that just as well as we all know here. And integration has so far only been inadequate. We must not just close our eyes before these things. What's a diktat here? If you do not want to integrate, you can ask him the question after three years, why is he even in the country if he does not want to integrate himself? In the legislative text, it states explicitly: Those who are not willing to “purchasing the ability to participate in the social, economic and cultural life in Austria” will be informed. It's clear and clear inside. It even goes so far, ladies and gentlemen, that the head of the Vienna Integration Fund has admitted that many Turkish women are not allowed to attend a German course because their husbands forbid them to leave the house. Thus, we have already created something very positive with this law: that Turkish women are now very likely to attend German courses, which they also need for integration. It is important that we engage in integration precisely in this area of introduction into language skills. The fact that it does not work at voluntary level has proved to be true. The incentive alone is certainly not enough. And one thing is also fact, and everyone who deals with matter knows that: Most of the unemployed foreigners are therefore not palatable because they do not speak the German language. Max Walch described the very practical and very brilliant as it is in reality. That is why this request is not practical, non-targeting, and it does not help the host worker in particular.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14783	No further words are available. That is why I am closing the debate. I would like to point out to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal on which we have now made the first reading. We also have the 6th. Agenda item. 7. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Gisela Wurm, colleagues in a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act, and a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Law 1975) (30/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14822	We're coming to the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant, Mrs Mag. Worm, get the word. Voluntary speaking time limit: about 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14847	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are again discussing this proposal at first reading today, the delay is not my fault, but Parliament's everyday life has not worked as many citizens wished. This request was already made in December 2001, a first reading took place in the first half of last year, and now it has already gone into the country for over a year, and we have a first reading here again. In this case, ladies and gentlemen, and this is unfortunate, because this concerns, among other things, the extension of citizens' rights, the slogan of the then clubman of the ÖVP “speed kills” has not gone on. It was obviously not so fast when it came to extending the rights of citizens. But now to the request in particular. What does this request involve? – Among other things, this request is about the fact that citizens’ initiatives can also be brought into this Parliament by young people, not only when they are 19 years old, but also as early as 16 years old. I think it would be necessary to create this law. In some countries, for example, the local elections can already be elected by 16 people, criminal law, criminal liberties are given as early as 14 years old, and many legal transactions can also be concluded at the age of 16. So why should there not be the possibility of young people from 16 to 16 years of age? Is it possible to bring their concerns to Parliament in the form of a citizens' initiative? I believe that this is a change that would have been due for a long time, and in this case I hope you will agree. Another point contained in this request is that the so-called §-27 requests can also be made by our Committee, i.e. by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. Discrimination that exists here is discontinued. It is necessary that our committee, which represents the concerns of citizens, should also have the opportunity to make self-employed requests. The third major point, which I would like to mention, is that the reports of the People's Procuratorate – and also this suggestion takes place in consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office – are assigned to the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. This is the Committee which is in direct contact with the citizens in Parliament. It is also the public prosecutor's concern to help the citizens' concerns so to speak. I therefore believe that our Committee, the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, would be the right point of contact for the reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Now I would like to briefly explain to all those colleagues who have not been here in the House during the last legislative period why the next point to be read in this motion also needs a change of law. It has so far been the case that the People's Procuratorate has only been able to deliver a report to Parliament each year. Now, at the start of the term of office, the three people’s lawyers have received a special number of complaints from the population in a particular area. On the basis of this fact and on the basis of the shortcomings that arose at the time when the law was being passed, and which have therefore brought the citizens to the lawyers, a special report has been drawn up on a specific measure. There have then been great debates here in Parliament, whether this special report can be allocated at all and how it should be dealt with. That is why, I believe, it is necessary, important and correct that the public prosecutorship is given the opportunity not only to produce a report once a year but, if necessary, to produce a special report if there are special events, including another report. Let me read a letter I received from the Volksanwälten! This is, I believe, something very important, because in the embarrassment of being able to write special reports, the lawyers will no longer come in the future because they are suffering from labour congestion. I would like to read to you the essential points of this letter. It is as follows: “On the occasion of the consultation and decision-making of a legislative budget commission in 2003, the Volksanwälten will come to you, ladies and gentlemen” – I now inform you – “and your National Council Group to support the People’s Procurement in carrying out its constitutional mission” – please, it is a mission. In the current situation caused by the budget commission, the public prosecutor points out that a regular service operation can no longer be guaranteed for foreseeable periods of time as a result of the extremely strained budgetary resources. If a cover for the additional expenses is not possible under the Federal Federal Finance Act or the Final Federal Financial Act 2003, the Public Prosecutorship is unable to fulfil its constitutional obligation – that is, we are the Federal Legislator, we have commissioned it so to speak – “on account of the citizens and the Parliament in an acceptable manner. In contrast to the Constitutional and Administrative Courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office is not possible to reject the treatment of certain complaints. In accordance with Article 148a B-VG, there is, rather, a constitutional obligation to examine each complaint and to inform the complainants of the results of the same, which naturally requires direct contact with the applicants and the authorities. In view of the fact that a comparable possibility for the Court of Auditors to draw up an audit plan, which could be taken into account in advance of the available resources, is opposed to this unrestricted control mandate, the use of the Public Procuratorship cannot be restricted or restricted. The proportion of mandatory testing procedures increased from 4 977 in 2001 to 7 798 in 2002, which corresponds to an increase of 57 percent and the processing of some 22,000 inputs (citizens and authorities) – they have to be questioned again and again – “went on. From the beginning of the current term of office in July 2001, the volume of files even increased by 84 percent... The resulting burden on the office now requires appropriate budget arrangements for 2003.’ I have read this out because the People's Procuratorate really deals with a lot more requests, has much more to deal with complaints and thus simply does not deal with the personnel resources anymore. So this is where remedial action has to be taken. We cannot give orders as federal legislators whose completion with existing resources cannot be done. In this sense, I hope that this letter will receive attention. I haven't read it completely with regard to the time now, but maybe there is another opportunity. [[Abg. Oils: Shame!]] This letter was signed by the Volksanwalt Bauer, popular attorney Mag. Stadler and also the Volksanwalt Dr. Kostelka. It is obvious that this problem is seen in a uniform way in the People's Procuratorate. Therefore, I assume that the parties to the budget negotiations take into account the need for such a donation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14891	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14910	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Wurm, I believe that the complaints due to the delay in time are not necessarily necessary and appropriate. We already have the Committee on the Rules of Procedure tomorrow, and tomorrow we will also be one of the first committees to work at all on these requests. It is therefore all his proper course. [[Abg. Gradwell:... the Budget Committee has already worked hard!]] Mr President, all of this is his proper course. In principle, we agree to the justification of your request that the constitutional situation of the public prosecutor should be reviewed and discussed accordingly. The People's Procuratorate is an important institution for us, also as an auxiliary body of the National Council, to which we, of course, give due attention and importance. In this sense, of course, we will also deal with the letter and the concern expressed here by the public prosecutors. However, we believe that, in particular, the previous steps in the administrative reform and the further reforms that this government is taking with regard to the administrative reform must lead to an adaptation of administrative control and therefore also to an improvement in the capabilities of the public prosecutor. That is why we believe, Mrs Colleague, that your request is a little too short. He is not yet a real basis for parliamentary discussion, because the People's Procuratorate itself has already expressed much more extensive wishes to the House in the past. I recall that the People's Procuratorate has called for it to be given a competence for the examination of distributed lawyers. It says here in her report: “The current College notes that, from today’s point of view, it is more necessary than ever to bring about equality of the public prosecutor’s audit competence with that of the Court of Auditors” – with regard to the major distributions that have taken place here. The People's Procuratorate argues that it is granted the possibility of an official complaint to the courts of public law. The People's Procuratorate wants it to be authorized to challenge both federal and national laws relating to its constitutional illegality. And the People's Procuratorate would also like to be able to standardise a limitation of limitation periods in proceedings in which complainants can claim legal claims. These are not all the proposals and demands that have come, there is a complete catalogue here. We will, of course, deal with this. We need to discuss these issues together, and we want to achieve appropriate political consensus. Of course, however, it is also necessary to clarify the meaning of whether or not Reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office are indeed to be dealt with in the Committee on Petitions and not, as has been said, in the Constitutional Committee. The latter has so far been the case and has also proved its worth. In this respect, we have a certain scepticism as to your proposal. The fact that the reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office are the examination of possible abuses in the execution of the Federal Republic of Germany is also the case against this requested committee transfer. In our opinion, these belong to the Constitutional Committee. The petitions and citizens' initiatives are quite different, quite different concerns and initiatives of citizens, which we believe are of different importance and should remain where they are now being dealt with. [[Abg. May. Worm: Federal affairs!]] So you see a whole slut of open problems, of suggestions and wishes that we have. We will start to deal with this matter tomorrow in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We are also open to all suggestions. We want to achieve consensus throughout the house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14962	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e14981	Mr President. High house! It is therefore my concern to speak here because there is a reluctance in the field of public prosecutors, namely a constitutional restriction on the rights of the public prosecutors, according to which they are allowed to report only once a year and are not allowed to issue individual reports in particularly important materials. I believe that it is a very useful suggestion from the public prosecutor's office to get rid of it and also to allow individual reports. If the People's Procuratorate is already making the effort to explain individual issues for importance, and to provide, as it were, intermediate services to the House, by raising these issues and then bringing them into the House, then we should also be able to: to deal with these issues in a timely and up-to-date manner, and should not impose a constitutional barrier on the public prosecutors that such reports cannot be given. We all know that the People's Procuratorate is doing excellent work. It should therefore also be given this opportunity, which would be a service or an intermediate service for Parliament. I think it is no longer timely to maintain this constitutional barrier.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15016	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15034	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: I think it is good and useful for us here as parliamentarians to discuss the rights, but also the way in which the public prosecutors' actions and possibilities are done, to review them over and over again, and, I would say, to work out the problems together with the public prosecutors. It would certainly be interesting to discuss and develop these things in one committee or another together with the lawyers. For we do not want to make reforms for our own purpose here, but we really want them to improve the way the institution concerned is doing. This is certainly to be done at regular intervals. I too, of course, have received the letter of the Volksanwälte in which they complained about the critical working conditions, and that should also be discussed. Because there should be no argument that citizens' concerns with the complaint cannot be treated optimally or as quickly as possible because the material resources have been missing. However, I believe that the reports of the People's Procuratorate should be dealt with in the Constitutional Committee, also as a signal that a constitutional institution will return these reports to the legislator for whom it is working. I think that's really an important signal. Of course you can discuss everything, but it is also the legal purpose of the public prosecutor's office – and that is why it is located in the Constitutional Committee – as that of the instruments of direct democracy such as petitions and citizens' initiatives. [[Abg. May. Worm: The People's Procuratorate has suggested this itself!]] – Yes, it is also good for parliamentarians here to bring in, so to speak, the public prosecutors’ proposals as their own, so that we can discuss them. It should be discussed in full, in an open dialogue. [[Abg. May. Worm:... a dialogue!]] But I think that the People's Procuratorate is only an area of important constitutional materials, which we might also need to negotiate intensively in the Constitutional Convention discussed in public. It will be important for parliamentarians to be involved so that we can also discuss and possibly improve all other control mechanisms, such as the question of the Court of Auditors, and the structure of these control bodies within the federal constitution. If we all find ourselves on this mechanism, then something could even come out of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15085	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15104	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the Greens support this request in the intention. I believe that the speeches have now gotten a little bit confused because they don't really meet the problem. We recall the report by the People's Procuratorate on heating aid and the problem we had in this regard in the House: that we do not have it at all. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I would like to point out here that this argument with the Constitutional Committee applies only on condition for me. If I look at how reports from the Court of Auditors are dealt with, then there is a qualitative difference in discussing the sub-areas on which the report is returned, in the Court of Auditors' Committee, and at this level, trying to deal in some way with what is being taken up and proposed for improvement. There is a problem in the reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office that this possibility does not exist here as well. There was so far the annual report in the Constitutional Committee, but all the sub-areas that were included would probably also be useful to discuss with the trade ministers and would ultimately also reflect the mandate to act there. This is partly done by means of the regulation. I can judge this from my field of education, because I have the feeling that it is the public prosecutor's rightful criticism, and somehow sends this criticism because it doesn't really arrive anywhere. I think we can then look at the Committee very carefully what useful instruments can be used in this area. I would not necessarily see that the Constitutional Committee – because it is a body of the Constitution – is particularly empowered to find out what the public prosecutors criticise. But there's my colleague Kukacka here. Openness has signaled, I expect a fruitful and open discussion to take place in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15143	No further words are available. That concludes this debate. I agree with the request, which has just been discussed at first reading, to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. A meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure will be held tomorrow. That's what we've got on the 7th. Agenda item done. 8. Point First reading: Request by Dr Josef Cap, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Law 1975) (31/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15182	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. This is also a first reading, on request 31/A. The request was signed by Dr Cap as the first signatory. He's coming to terms now. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15204	This request is part of a whole package, which deals with amendments to the Rules of Procedure, whereby we believe that we are bringing in proposals that make Parliament closer to the citizen and that, above all, the discussion processes, i.e. the example of the committee negotiations, for citizens, for the institutions concerned, who are here on the subject of treatment, or for the media, make it more transparent that citizens, if there is room and locality, have the opportunity to participate in these committee negotiations as listeners. I think that this is a very positive process that is being initiated here to take away the aura of often mysterious, that unfiltered information, interpreted information go outside alone, but if the need exists, you can be authentically informed. In the same way, it would, of course, be necessary to ensure that plenary sessions are always public in principle, in order to enable media representatives to participate. It would also help to overcome the distance there and there between voters and those who are elected by them as Members of the House. For those who are concerned, I would like to say that there is a possibility – in order to return to committee negotiations now – that there is a certain degree of confidentiality where it can be argued and where it is necessary, that it can then be decided upon on request and that, in any case, the public can be excluded from meetings or parts of meetings, if one believes that this is necessary for the negotiation process before going to the public later. But this is the other way round: The principle would be the general public, and in order to deal with this in the course of a general reform to the design of Parliament, to enhance Parliament's appreciation, but also to make Parliament closer to the citizen, there is this request. I hope that he will be treated positively in this House and that there will be the possibility of joining this House by a majority, so that the quality of the committee negotiations and perhaps the presence of the committee negotiations will be one that will make it possible to achieve optimal results. Small addition: I still believe that there should be an opportunity for the minority to convene investigation committees. By the way, we are also in favour of this public being given especially when experts occur. In this case too, one should provide for the public.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15249	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15267	Mr President. High house! As Mr Cap has already said, it is a question of introducing the public in general for committee negotiations. Now, transparency is certainly something that for all of us is a point that has to do with our daily work and that we deal with every day. Politics has to do with working with the public and the public. However, I would advise you to do so with regard to amendments to the Rules of Procedure, because the Rules of Procedure do have a system that has developed for many years. Anyone who knows the system under the existing Rules of Procedure knows, it is true that for all the issues being dealt with in this House, the public is guaranteed, because the public here in plenary, where these issues are dealt with after the Committee's deliberations, is guaranteed and because the public in the Committee is already present on the issues of which the finalisation takes place in the Committee. In addition, there are some areas in which the public is already provided for in committee deliberations. We know from the experience of recent years that, in these areas, the possibility for the public to participate accordingly has been scarcely or not used. So this interest obviously does not exist. I would also like to add a certain personal scepticism, because the message of transparency, which I am sure I am hearing, is lacking only faith, Mr Cap! If it is you who is making this request, then the question is whether the wish behind it is more of the one after the TV camera, after the microphone. If we can follow you here or on other occasions in front of the television screen, that is, I think, an objective treatment and the prelude of scientific work and positive negotiations is not particularly acceptable. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Hey! That's a premise!]] Whether this desire, which may be in the foreground of the Committee's deliberations, is really an objective work, a serious and serious debate on the subject, I am not quite convinced of it personally. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Court of Auditors would do well! That would be a good thing for your ministers in the Court of Auditors.]] Nevertheless, we will, of course, consult this motion in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, examine it in a serious way and then decide on it, because I believe that it is important, as I have already said, for the Rules of Procedure, to define the essential rules of our work here, a successful work for Austria, that it is really important to deal with it intensively and then make a serious decision. [[Abg. May. Kogler: And then refuse afterwards!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15338	Next, Mrs Mag. Worm the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15356	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! “Regenerate new”, “reforms in all areas of the state”, “renewal” and many more terms of this kind have been repeatedly brought into the mouth by the government parties over the last few months, and recently also by all the other parties represented here. Ladies and gentlemen! Now you can show everyone you have moved into the House here, whether these were just religious Sunday speeches or whether it is really serious for you to make Parliamentary work more transparent. I mean, we don't need to be so afraid of the public, but the opposite is the case: I think it is very important and necessary for politics and also for a modern Parliament that the people and the media have more opportunity to see through and through. I am therefore quite convinced that this request for an amendment of the Rules of Procedure would have to be accepted by almost all Members here in this House. It cannot be – as Josef Cap has already pointed out – that the opposite principle exists here, that the public must be allowed in and voted on as the public is allowed. This principle is really ancient, and it has relatively little to do with modern democratic understanding. That's not how we imagine modern parliamentaryism. In my opinion, it is very important for citizens that they have the opportunity to understand how the discussion in the Committee takes place when they are interested in it in the areas in which they are often themselves affected. – I hope it is not as few as my previous speaker said. They should have the opportunity to follow the discussion processes and not be dependent on committee reports that are often very poor. Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I hope that this request will be approved by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and that we will adopt ‘secret negotiations’, as is often seen in the population. “In the dark it’s good to munk,” may apply to other things. - It's probably not appropriate here.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15399	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15418	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. The public of committees has always been a very central concern for the Greens. Since 1986, since the Greens moved into this House, this has always been on our points for regulatory reforms. Of course, you can go into the counter-arguments very soberly and ask: Is it really a problem for the committees if they are public if they are actually “negotiated” in these committees? – In reality it is different; we all know this: At the moment, the committees are not really negotiating. The opposition often gets the amendments very close before the meetings, and the negotiations take place elsewhere. I would like to think about this argument if the view of parliamentarianism and the work in the committees changes in this direction. But you can still do that. One should only reverse the principle and say that public access is the principle, and it is always possible to decide by a majority that confidential negotiations are under way at certain times. There is therefore no reason to worry that the quality of work or anything related to the negotiations could be negatively affected. I think that the principle of transparency, maximum access to the public concerned, maximum access to the media should first be dominant. In delicate cases, in important situations, this principle can still be eliminated in the short term, always with the majority in Parliament. So you don't need to be afraid that something could go wrong here. Finally, I would like to point out that there are hardly any possibilities available at this time. But this is not surprising either, because the information about a report being discussed publicly in the Committee does not take place in a form that could include large, qualified parts of the public. I think it is precisely in the reports that we should look at the practice and consider whether the current form of ending it in committee and not bringing it to a plenary session is actually appropriate in many important areas whether this is the art and cultural report, the sports report or many test reports. So: Transparency, the public and other opportunities for participation should all of us be concerned about the future. Parliamentaryism must continue to evolve, and I wish that this idea, which the Greens have long represented, should also be dealt with in a very serious and proper discussion in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and may eventually be answered with Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15463	There are no further speeches at this first reading. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 31/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. 9. Point First reading: Request by Dr Josef Cap, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Act 1975) (32/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15499	We're coming to the 9th. Agenda item. The first speaker to speak was Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15521	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The first-reading request involves attracting the procedures during Question Time and thus Question Time itself. High house! Question Time is one of the institutions of the National Council, which are always broadcast on Austrian television, and therefore also a business card of the Austrian National Council, also to the outside. It is one of the few options for the electorate in each constituency to see their representatives in the plenary room, which is usually only the case with the first speakers in direct transfers. We should therefore ask ourselves, in our own interest, whether Question Time is still in its present form or whether it could not be completely improved. The Socialist Group has tabled a proposal which sets out the following principles: Abstain from written submission of main questions. 48 hours before the beginning of Question Time, written notice by the President to the Members of Parliament, which members of the Federal Government – that is, several – will be present at Question Time. Any Member who wishes to ask a main question shall inform the President before receipt of Question Time. The President then calls on Members to take into account the size of the club and the diversity of the political groups. The honourable Member has to ask the main question, which he may justify briefly. – This was not possible so far and sometimes led to unworthy calls, although it must be clear to a self-confident Parliament that Members should also have a right to justify their questions, ladies and gentlemen. In consequence, the Minister would have to answer as before. The additional questions should also work under the previous system. I would like to give a few examples of the benefits of this proposal: The President may take into account current or foreseeable current political events in the presidential conference when determining which member or members of the Federal Government should be present at Question Time. So far, the question time followed from the list of members of the Federal Government in the Federal Ministry Act, which led to complete inflexibility. – You all know, ladies and gentlemen! Each Member has a greater flexibility to address current political issues. All Members who want to ask supplementary questions must follow Question Time closely. - We know how it usually goes. The President has a greater right to allow the honourable Members to carry out spontaneously appropriate main and additional questions. This process is certainly far more interesting for television transmission and thus for viewers than the previous one. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Such a reorganisation would benefit all of us. . I think that we should be guided by the example of a Parliament with great tradition, namely the British House of Commons. I believe that, for all of us, it is about our rights, the rights of Members and, if you wish, also the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to invite all of you to join us in the interests of Members, in the interest of the National Council, in this discussion process.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15598	I call Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15616	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that Question Time is needed for a reform is probably what most people here in the House agree on. I am not sure whether the request, as the SPÖ has put it here, is sufficient. There are arguments for and against. In particular, the question of the quality of a response depends, of course, on whether a minister can prepare for it in any form or not. If this is really only possible at the beginning of Question Time, it also opens up certain problems. On the other hand, what would be necessary and should probably be much stronger to speak is the ability of the political groups to decide for themselves where they are currently seeing a urgency and to whom the questions are addressed. The rigidity of the process, as it currently exists, that the ministers of the series appear here and then we have to ask them up-to-date questions, whether the topic is appropriate or not, should be resolved as possible. At least one should consider being able to question several ministers, which is also included in the request. Since no speakers of the government groups have been spoken, I am a little unsure whether there is any willingness at all to talk about it. One thing has to be clearly stated: the question time, as it is now handled, is an instrument of the government. It may not be the sense of a question time that speaking times are very unevenly distributed, that the possibilities of exchange of arguments are very uneven and that, if you look at the practice, they are one of the few instruments that are regularly made available to a wider public, since the question hour is just as regularly transmitted as the current hour. – It would therefore be worth being handled with more durability and more modernity. There are probably other examples that could be used. As I said, I am still a little thoughtful, since there are no speeches from the government groups, which seem to be able to live quite well with this instrument. We Greens also believe that there is a relatively large need for reform here.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15660	No further words are available. I conclude the debate on this item on the agenda. I also agree with Amendment 32/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. 10. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues in a Federal Act amending the Commercial Code in 1994 (38/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15696	We're coming to 10. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Mag. Maier gets the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15722	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This proposal concerns a consumer problem of a particular nature, which consumer protection has been dealing with since the liberalisation of the telecommunications sector and the energy sector. It's about doorstep shops. Companies – mostly subsidiaries, but also foreign companies – are increasingly trying to win new electricity customers for new electricity suppliers. The methods are sometimes hideous. We became aware of cases where older people in particular were threatened if they did not sign, they would be turned off the electricity. Similar areas of problem exist in the sale of magnetic field therapy equipment in backyards and similar but also in the telecommunications area. Now there is the possibility of providing for a ban on the so-called door-door transactions on the trade regulations. This proposal, which is now available, provides for a ban on door door-to-door business for electricity supply contracts on the one hand, but also for the sale of magnetic field therapy equipment, as well as for telecom services or telecommunications services as a whole. So you can imagine something below: We had around 2 000 complaints in this area in Salzburg alone in the consumer consultation last year. The complaints must be estimated at approximately 25,000 or more across Austria. I therefore believe that there is a real need for legislative action here. In order not to believe that the SPÖ Group would have invented this topic, I can only briefly quote the most important articles from the Austrian printing media: ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’ means: ‘Keilertrick’s always threesome.’ ‘The press’ means: ‘Successors for traces of electricity-circuits?’ ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’ means: “Stromkellers are becoming more and more aggressive. Home door shops for telephone and electricity are increasing. With some sales, even the police had to intervene.” ‘The standard’ means: “How strange electric motors are trying to insure electricity customers”. ‘Economic paper’ means: “Ranger in the attack. With 180 men, Ranger Marketing GesmbH goes to customer capture for electricity and telecom companies. For clients it is ‘the future of distribution’. – I personally doubt that. ‘Kurier’ means: ‘Clarification wave against the power-pillars. After Viennastrom and Steweag, Kelag refers to the Court of Justice/Strengere rules.’ ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’ means: ‘Latest door business’. “Zeitung der Vorarlberger Arbeiterkammer”: “Quickly rich with Innoflex: The pyramid lets greet”... Innoflex is a branch of a Berlin-based company that operates in Austria and operates swivel methods for a power pool. ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’ means: ‘Currency case: ==References====External links== ‘Salzburger Window’: ‘Power sales as doorstep business’. ‘Kurier’ means the sale of electricity in Ranger style. Wienstrom laments Ranger Marketing/VKI warns against doorstep business”. ‘The standard’ means: “Direct sales on customer catches. Telephone providers shall supply each other with a hit exchange for ‘door door business’’. ‘Profile’ means ‘Unclean business. Telekom. Aggressive doorkeepers sell telephone connections with questionable methods. More and more consumers are feeling at ease.” One of Deutsche Telekom Austria’s own leaflets: “Okay! Our foreign phone representatives on the road!” Or: “Sunrise agents with Wildwest methods” on the road. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have only brought a small extract from the reporting of the last months. We Socialists see the need for action here. I would like to thank the former Salzburger Stadtwerke, now Salzburg AG, very much, especially the former ÖVP Landeshauptmann Deputy Dr. Gasteiger. Salzburg AG is the first company to voluntarily refrain from door doorcars. I hope that other companies will follow this example, but believe that a legal regime is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15777	Mrs Mitterlehner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15795	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! What has been described here and what is clearly presented in the media really gives the impression at the first moment that there is an urgent need for a legal regime here. I do not wish to conclude such a scheme in principle, but I would ask whether it is the right procedure to regulate the rules of trade, in § 57, or whether, according to my information status, the Minister is still speaking on this issue, it should not be dealt with in the field of consumer protection law, because it belongs there too from the classification. The industrial system has the task of regulating competition, access to trade, and of course also of value to quality characteristics. Would that be implemented in § 57, dear Mag. Maier, the consumer would have nothing of it himself, because de facto it would only open up possible competitors a possibility of complaint within the meaning of the UWG. It is therefore necessary to ask where the problem should be dealt with systematically. Of course, there are also serious providers, and the reputable providers are the vast majority in the field of telecoms, telecommunications services. This does not create disadvantages for the person concerned, but benefits because it will then get cheaper tariffs. Of course, it must also be pointed out that there is the possibility of withdrawing from business within a period of up to two weeks under Consumer Protection Act. [[Abg. May. Maier: Unfortunately not! It's only a week! Two weeks we're asking!]] – Well, in any case, there is the possibility to withdraw. Therefore, it would certainly also be in the interests of consultants, particularly in the area of the Chamber of Labour, to strengthen the information of consumers about this. I too have read some reports and have to say that more consistent behaviour in this respect would not have even created some of the discrepancies. If this were summarized, I would say – it is only the first reading, the request is probably assigned to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs – that there will be plenty of opportunity to discuss the whole subject in detail, to advise and to find a consumer-friendly solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15833	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15851	Mr President. High house! Mr Maier, I agree with you: It is true that in very many cases there are abuses in the electricity sector and in telecommunications applications, and of course there is an acute need for action here. We liberals also share the view of my previous speaker that it would not be the right way to solve this problem on the rules of commerce, since the rules of commerce have been far overstepped in recent years and decades and can already be found in them so much regulation that it is increasingly difficult for entrepreneurship to come into business. Instead of adding something to the trade order, it would be useful to put something out of the way to put a real, modern market economy in Austria in swing and push it. Of course, a change in the trade regulation would also have a major impact on the liberalisation of the electricity market and the telecommunications market. In general, however, liberalisation must not mean that abuses are allowed. We are opposed to abuse, and we are also in favour of using methods that prevent this abuse. Especially the mobile and telecommunications industries have shown only a very slight willingness to change over the last few years as regards door-to-door operations. Telekom Austria has introduced a code of conduct for its agents and has also established its own sales partner in Austria, who conducts house visits. I would also suggest questioning the 0900 numbers and the abuse that exists in this context. This is extremely inconspicuous, because there is no protection for consumers. This question should be accepted in the near future. In the field of energy liberalisation, we know that there have been large savings over the last one and a half years, accounting for up to 50 percent. I therefore believe that this liberalisation has a positive overall effect. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Our proposal is the same that my previous speaker has already made, namely to address the problem of consumer protection law. This is above all because it is also a matter of foreign companies, as you have already mentioned, Mr Maier, and these foreign companies can only be trained into a reasonable and serious business practice if we develop consumer protection in Austria. In view of the enlargement of the EU, it would therefore be useful to use consumer protection as a platform for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15905	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15924	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! 25 000 complaints across Austria on door door business in the liberalized telecom or electricity sector speak a clear language. That something has to happen is probably undisputed. This shows both the reports of the VKI, which are also shown by the workers' chamber research, and we notice this daily when we have to take note of complaints from those concerned. That is why I very much regard it as justified, Mr Mitterlehner and Mr Colleague von der FPÖ, that we regulate this in the trade regulations, because from the legal systems only a ban on commercial practice is possible there. Look You're looking at the existing § 57! It already prohibits private individuals from making calls for orders of goods or services in the case of poisons, pharmaceuticals, consumer products, healing aids, watches, gold, silver, platinum, jewelry, gemstones, weapons, ammunition et cetera. So there is already a legal point, and we just have to expand it. On the other hand, if we were to take your path to the Consumer Protection Act as a whole, we would only take a defensive position. On the other hand, we want to act offensively, and that is simply to prohibit this trade. That is what we think is more efficient, and we not only speak of the numerous incidents, but also speak of the legal system. The fact that we are no longer allowed to delay this can also be demonstrated by these current newspaper reports, which have already been presented here. The newspaper reports also point to other areas that we urgently need to deal with in order to protect consumers. In this context, I only refer to the question of advertising. Advertising is also a painful problem. In particular, older people are repeatedly asked to check out and lured into purchases that they would never have wanted on their own. I also refer to the question of competitions. This too is urgent. More stringent criteria need to be applied to prevent people from being fooled. In view of this, this first reading should lead to rapid treatment in one of the committees, from me to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, but equally well in the Committee on Justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15966	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. Amendment 38/A, which we have just discussed at first reading, I agree with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The agenda for today's sitting is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e15999	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Cap, Mr Mag. Kuntzl, Mag. Gässner, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of an investigation committee on the procurement of combat aircraft. The request has been made in writing to all Members, so it does not need reading. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e16150	On the grounds of the request, Mr Mag. Gaßner to speak. Speaking time up to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e16183	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A very fun remark: “Put on high-water boots!” – Yes, I put them on, and come back to this afternoon’s debate, in which Mr Scheibner, Federal Minister, said – it was about European defence policy – that he could not imagine that in Brussels it would have to be asked if soldiers went into the flood. I think this is a very cheap polemic that neither the flood victims nor the very dedicated soldiers in this mission deserved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A second comment: The Federal Chancellor has tried to explain to us that six Eurofighters are bought less and are paid with this savings flood damage. I think this is an increase of those who still suffer today and will suffer for a long time. Explain Please ask these people if in 2005 pilots, fighter jets are purchased and eventually financed, how then the flood victims can have some of them today! Explain this to the people, please! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Much more interesting for the people who suffer from flood damage, is the question: How is this huge waste being financed? How will these 2 billion be financed at all? [[Abg. Murauer: What does this have to do with the flood offerings?]] In a committee of inquiry, we are interested in the question of when you will finally present a financing plan which must be submitted to the National Council for such amounts. - First question. I no longer want to address the statements of the head of state of Carinthia in order not to endanger the government stability of the FPÖ. In an investigation committee, however, we are already interested in how you deal with the fact that follow-up costs such as operation, how maintenance doesn't mean that you don't know how these fighter jets are armed at all. Is the price even a weapon included? That's what interests us in an investigation committee! Ladies and gentlemen! We are also interested in the statement by the procurement expert of the Ministry of Defence, who believes that the EADS offer should be eliminated because it does not provide for the period of time when the Dragons would be eliminated and the new jets would not yet be there. We are interested in why Mr. Grasser, the Minister of Finance, first said that the acquisition of this war apparatus – so he has called it – should be rejected at all, and why, suddenly, he is for it, and even for the most expensive solution. I wonder, Did Uncle Frank say hello? Was there perhaps a bit of pressure exerted on this Minister of Finance, or did he buy the opportunity to remain Minister of Finance? It may also be a possibility. Ladies and gentlemen! We are also interested in why Mr Rumpold, the ex-business leader of the FPÖ, as far as I can remember, who received a huge PR order, said that if one did not show up in Austria with a cash case, nothing would work at all. We are interested in these statements in an investigation committee. Why does CSU Chancellor have to intervene with our Federal Chancellor? There was something at the time of the acquisition of radar equipment by Thomson. Even then there was this intervention, even then the most expensive device was purchased, and even now this was obviously necessary again. These questions are of interest to us, ladies and gentlemen. The third President of the National Council, who meant that a SAAB offer was available, which is €700 million cheaper, and if this was not taken into account and would nevertheless be bought by Eurofighter, then he would be for new elections. These statements are of interest to us, ladies and gentlemen. And one last question is also very interesting in the context. It refers to a statement by the head of the military aircraft division at EADS. He has publicly said that nowhere will more be lied than in counter-businesses and in funeral speeches. Ladies and gentlemen! These are questions which are formally cried out by a committee of inquiry. And I wonder why you are so vehemently opposed to why you do not use the opportunity of an investigation committee to show how white your vest is and how much this is not true. [[Call the ÖVP: Because you don't have good arguments!]] If you want to, please agree to our request!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e16245	The next speaker is Mr Amon. A maximum of 5 minutes of speaking time from now on. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e16263	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can make it a little shorter than Mr Gaßner. We have, in fact, already held a comprehensive debate on this subject today. The Federal Chancellor has demonstrated in an impressive way that the SPÖ, as long as it was in government responsibility, has always acted for airspace surveillance, has always been for interceptors and that, since it is in opposition, it has simply not wanted to assume any more state-political responsibility and is opposed to airspace surveillance. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: This is a committee of inquiry!]] The SPÖ has even gone so far as to try to convert the National Council election into a referendum on the acquisition of airspace surveillance aircraft. This attempt has also failed relatively easily. What you are trying to do here is to commit criminalisation through a committee of inquiry. We are certainly not available for this, especially because the entire procurement process is accompanied by the Court of Auditors. The EIA will therefore certainly not agree with this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e16315	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e16333	Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that there is a very broad public rejection of the acquisition of interception hunters. [[Abg. Grossruck: And we need an investigation committee to do this?]] But this is not the subject of this debate at all. At this point, we are not discussing the political meaning of the acquisition of interceptors, but we are discussing at this point the question of why exactly this decision has been taken in this form, why you have decided to acquire the most expensive fighter aircraft, and why it must be fighters. This decision was also taken against the military evaluation, against the recommendations of high-level military experts. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the formation of government, the question marks that have been raised regarding this acquisition in the public sector have not become even smaller. On the contrary! Both in the negotiations with the Greens and in the preliminary talks with the Social Democratic Party, the question of the acquisition of combat aircraft was the question of the ÖVP. In this question, you have not shown any willingness to move even a tenth of a millimeter. In view of this, the public is already asking the legitimate question as to why this is so and which interests are behind it. And that is what we need to clarify, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The cryptic accusation of the head of the Carinthian state in the area remains that economic interests exist behind this decision. This has also struck great waves in the Freedom Party, and this accusation remains unanswered and unexplained in space. Today, with our urgent request, we have made the fair attempt to bring back a little more light to this story with a normal parliamentary instrument. It has not succeeded, because in a particularly not impressive way, the Federal Chancellor has not answered the questions and has not really contributed to the elimination of these signs. We made a request to set up a committee of inquiry months ago. You rejected this request months ago. We are making this request again today. If, in fact, everything is as clean and correct as you represent it, then take the step to set up the investigation committee to convince the public too! Ladies and gentlemen! If you really have nothing to hide, then there is no reason not to agree to the setting up of the committee of inquiry today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the light of this current issue of the establishment of a committee of inquiry, let me also point out that, from our point of view, it would be particularly important – and we would have done so in the case of government participation as an important point of view – that the establishment of committee of inquiry would be a minority right in the National Council. I would now like to give you the suggestion for the ongoing coalition negotiations to take this point very seriously and to implement it very seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e16395	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e16424	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This SPÖ request is a repeated cheaper attempt by the opposition side to criminalise a state-politically important topic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] We have already been able to discuss this in the context of your bad urgent question today. I have already mentioned that the tendering arrangements have been examined by the Court of Auditors. This test is under way. We will also have an audit report in Bälden on the entire procurement process. That means to me: We don't need an investigation committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e16457	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e16475	Mr President. Whether the way in which the Federal Chancellor replied today was impressive was allowed to remain. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] We have ended the debate on the point that we may not be able to do anything but continue to demand an investigation committee on this matter if this remains the response quality. I can come back to a few questions that the SPÖ Group has asked today. For example, it was asked how high the financing costs for the type Eurofighter and for the type flu were. – The Federal Chancellor said that he did not know correctly and that, even if he knew it, he would not say it. – Both are wrong! He knows, and he doesn't say it for a certain reason. He therefore does not say it because, in all payment targets and conditions, Saab Gripen is clearly superior to the Eurofighter. See, this is what we are discussing now, Mr President, and not: Take-off hunters – yes or no! The application for the establishment of a committee of inquiry is clearly aimed at examining how the procurement process has been carried out. And I'll tell you again: What the Federal Chancellor conceals is very interesting for Parliament. If a question is addressed to him and he does not answer, then a committee of inquiry is the right instrument, and that is why everything insists on it. As I said, In each of these financing variants, the alternative – if you want to call it so – is significantly cheaper for Saab grips. As this will still be justified, we are very eager to do so! In any case, this aspect is very much in need of information. The next aspect is not necessarily new either, but becomes more and more relevant legally: If, during the awarding process, the withdrawal hunters are returned from 24 to 18 then – we claim: then – the same conditions should be submitted to the second provider. That was not the case! He doesn't even come into the door at the Department of Defense. The doors were closed to him, although the next offer would be much cheaper on 18 catchers! That's where I wonder: Why does that have to be like that? Why does that have to be so, Federal Chancellor? It's hard to find out! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Therefore, you should not be so offended if a committee of inquiry is required if the request has just been failed or not answered at all. In my last point in this regard, I come again to the counter-businesses. Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein is here too. There's nothing like that in the back and in the front! I would mention this at this point because we will all experience that at the end of this whole painful matter the argument will have to bear: The opposition was right, the grip was much cheaper and no worse military, but the concern for the stategant and the economic needs gave us the Eurofighter. Federal Chancellor! Doesn't that seem familiar to you? Didn't we have that with Thomson? This screenplay for Eurofighter procurement is one of Thomson's purchases of radar equipment. At the time, it was also intervened that the beams had bent – you know that very well – and unfortunately in some respects also successful, and this to the damage of the Republic. And it will not help you now if you continue to talk with the esteemed President of the National Council. You will have to speak and answer sometime and somewhere and hopefully in this investigation committee if you don't want to give the answers anywhere else! I'm coming back to the sequence: At the end of the day, there will be the counter-businesses you will be straining as a reason why you could not decide otherwise. To date, however, there are no counter-contracts. As far as we could, we've gotten documents. We have documents from the Ministry of Economic Affairs from which it can even be seen that massive pressure is exerted on the decision criteria. For example, transactions that have been proven to have been carried out without the Eurofighter acquisition should be booked and counted as counter-business of hundreds of million euros. It's no longer understandable! Either it's a counter-business, then it's related to the Eurofighter acquisition, or it's not one, but it's not allowed to be rehearsed. With these old one-seriouss, we are now going home again, and I believe that as a Member of Parliament we cannot actually afford it if the answers are left out on these points. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] These were the most important arguments. I see my speaking time is over. I should call on all Members, including those of the ÖVP, to finally ask why it must be the most expensive device. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Perhaps the most important thing for you is the Committee of Inquiry, not just for the opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e16554	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on Mr Cap's request for an investigation committee to review the purchase of these fighter aircraft. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the request to set up an investigation committee to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application for the establishment of a committee of inquiry is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-02-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e16590	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 43/A to 60/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 122/J to 148/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened for 8 p.m., i.e. immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
