ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e1644	Ladies and gentlemen! The meeting was opened. I very much welcome you all and ask you to take the places. Deputies Dr. Peter Pilz, Helga Machneund Gerhard Steier, are reported as prevented. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e1684	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Health reform instead of health tax – No to increase self-retaining’ First of all, Mr President, Mr Grünewald, spoke. You have a speech time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e1708	Dear Mr. Universitätsdozent, First President of the National Council Dr. Khol! I asked myself: You are as professor as I am, therefore: In the future, please say “Lord Doctor” to me. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] I think we can agree here that health policy is certainly one of the most sensitive policy areas, for the following reasons: on the one hand, because of the rising costs – that makes many nervously – but on the other hand also because of a particular concern for the population as regards health. This concern is characterised by – and we should all understand this – that sickness and suffering are not only monetary, that is, to be measured not only in monetary values, but also on very concrete persons, on their partnerships, on the family, on their environment, on society – and, of course, on the Austrian economy; if you like to hear this, you can of course hear it. Well: How to deal with these sensitive policies? – All knew – including colleague Rasinger, also Chancellor Schüssel – that health costs, for various reasons, are increasing. Everyone who has eyes, ears and brains knew that. And so I wonder – of course I assume that the representatives of the government parties also have these three bodies: Why could one deny, suppress and claim that there would be no increase in contributions, because they would not be considered because one does not want to expand the burden further? It was a blasphemy to ask for such a thing, or to call it necessary. And now – not only since the coalition talks with the ÖVP – one hears that there is a rethinking there. But how do you think about it? I'd love to get on track of this thing. It is clear that medical advances are costly because they open up opportunities that have recently been inconceivable or have not even been remembered. That the increasing ageing of the population, the increasing life expectancy of more chronically ill people, who of course also need care, diagnosis and therapy, was always clear. In this context, however, Mr Rasinger von der ÖVP has spoken of the fact that the burden on patients is already “achievable”. – But now we are in a “house” of a government program in which I no longer see a ceiling. I do not want to say that the view of heaven was released, that would be too beautiful, but at least this “house” does not have a ceiling anymore. The population – and this is also important for the visitors to the gallery – has a legally curated right to equal opportunities in the diagnosis and therapy of diseases, and it also has this equal opportunities in connection with all advances in medicine, i.e., a medicine at the state of today's science. This is undoubtedly a very high latte. Although we now have an obstacle runner in Parliament, we rarely have high-steamers in the Federal Government – and this latte is beginning to wake up. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The government promotes the “unfinancing of the health system” without a break, and this is linked to the Damocles heavy “restrictions of performance”. – The fact that people are worried, scared, insecure is clear, but: The answers are still missing! It seems to me that one is very inclined to raise something very quickly to the dogma, and I consider the thought: “Whoever is sick is to blame!” already as something like a dogma that the government is predicting for so long – perseveringly just – until those who previously were still very critical of dogmas. Dogmen cannot replace knowledge, even faith. They are merely seductive, comfortable because they are delegated responsibility – and such dogmas, as it were, also save a fight. With this thought of self retention – at least I have this feeling – the association immediately begins with the fact that the “wonderful” control and steering instruments are, but also “wonderful” financial instruments, and that your thoughts obviously only galop in one direction. According to my information, this invention of self-retaining was one of the private revelations that attacked the bowl, and I already have the impression – please do not be evil now! – that everything is then galopted in one direction before he begins to think before he has begun to reflect on what consequences and effects it has. – But I don’t believe it can be! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What is left behind in such a case is the sick, patients and patients who are relatively helpless to such dogmas. And: The word “self - preservation ” alone is already a bit of infammation in itself. Who keeps something himself? – The sick don't keep anything themselves, but they pay something! To believe that such control effects arise, says a study recently commissioned by the Waneck State Secretariat. It says that only overly high, socially unbearable, patients could really stop them from demanding benefits that they, I say, really need at a high percentage. I wonder how valuable it is for health policy to try to stop people from going to treatment when they feel sick. – I don’t like that anyway! Sick ones, whose autonomy, that is, their independence and free will, and their cost-consciousness, are not “normal consumers. ” Their behaviour is not only to be assessed according to the rules of the market, but they must consider themselves – and that is a difference! – whether they go to the doctor or to the doctor, operate or have a tooth pulled. Who's doing this on a voluntary basis?- Oh, my God! This is something different than buying a CD player or a movie card! That means: Such market behaviour should not be transferred in this area. The sick can't choose. To all of this, one must also say, and Mrs. B. Rauch-Kallat will certainly understand this, but of course she is only a member of this federal government – that patients can only decide on one thing, namely to go to the doctor or not. After that, however, the doctor or the health care professional decides what happens to this patient. Sick people have no influence at all on what costs they cause, because they depend on trust and trust on the advice and instructions of colleagues from the health professions. So: What are the dangers of self - preservation? – These are diverse natures. The fact that diagnostics are being dragged away certainly makes the system even more expensive, because diseases can be synchronized, fast-eating and are even more difficult to treat. Further: The danger of self-medication is increasing. Patients will try to get anything out of the pharmacy they think might help them – and that without knowing the diagnosis. There are social hardships and a huge red tape if you want to dispel these social hardships enough, just as much as you do in the case of ambulance charges. That the health costs are reduced is not just a flatitude, but simply and simply wrong! Health costs will only be shifted; they will not decrease, but will be transferred to the sick by the public sector in private. That can't be! You, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, should also note that Austria is already third in the world – according to the USA and the Netherlands – as far as health costs are concerned, the private must spend proportion of the total cost. I will come back briefly to our coalition talks with the ÖVP. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is interesting!]] However, we have spoken about harmonizing self retention at a uniform level, but we have spoken against declaring self retention as an additional source of revenue. Bartenstein even admitted that he was afraid of the same as the ambulance fees; one should do a pilot study in a federal country. – Nothing of this has happened! Nothing of it has remained! The new loads of the Federal Government, if subsumed, affect 88 percent of the insured – and only 12 percent of the service providers. That is, the balance, the parity between service providers and service providers is becoming sensitive and increasingly disturbed. The fact that one still wants to delegate this to the main association, which you always think is incapable of, and to the cash registers, that they decide how high the self retention should be, is fatal in that we want a federal rule. The danger of nine federal regulations and increased inequality is thus increasing. To conclude: Poor checkouts will be forced to demand more. But why are these cash registers poor? - Because their insured are poor: Unemployment, maternity protection and cetera. That means the cat's biting in the tail. Health is not coming forward! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I would recommend a dialogue. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic has spoken of both hands that would be stretched out. – My appeal: Let's have this dialogue as long as we still have it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e1819	Mrs President, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, spoke on a preliminary opinion. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e1840	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear Dr. Grünberger! [[Call the Greens:Green Forest!]] Green Forest, excuse me! – Mr Grünewald, the title of the current hour, whose theme has been set by the Greens today, reads as follows: “Health reform instead of health tax – no to increase self-maintenance.” Health reform instead of health tax – here I am entirely with you, Dr. Grünewald. We are concerned with ensuring a high quality health system in Austria with low social access. That is, everyone who is sick in Austria and needs help will get it, regardless of age, income or place of residence. And this system, which is good, we want to maintain in the future. It is not to be shaken! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We know, however, that this system has to face two very big challenges: on the one hand, medical progress – thank God! – who makes much possible, which was unthinkable ten or 15 years ago. Thus, for example, high-rates, more than 80-year-olds after a boneneck, who often came back ten or 15 years ago as a death sentence, can now be thanked for an operation, often after a few days, to return home. However, medical progress costs a lot of money, and that is why it is to be financed. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a demographic development which is God's thanks to many Austrians to be active until old age, but of course there was and also there is a very high need for care. We would like that in the future, even in Austria, there will be no English conditions, that perhaps a 70-year-old will no longer get hip surgery, as is the case in England. We would like every patient in Austria to receive everything he/she needs for his/her health in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In order to address this challenge in connection with rising costs, there are several possibilities: One could – for example – constantly increase health insurance contributions. This would, however, lead to the fact that the administrative burden is probably not really reduced. That is why we reject it. We have now reached an agreement. I would also like to thank you very much for being accepted. I am particularly grateful to the pensioners for helping to secure the system with a contribution increase of 0.5 percent in 2004 and one of 0.5 percent in 2005. In our health insurance system, there is already a wealth of self-maintainment that has been introduced by social-democratic health ministers over the last 30 years. Until 1999, there were always only Social Democratic Health Ministers. Only the ambulance fee was introduced by Herbert Haupt, a free health minister. However, we also have the various contributions, the various forms of percentage, flat-rate contributions for the doctor's visit, for the prescription fee, for relief, for aids. A wild increase in contributions, so to speak, which is difficult to see and where, therefore, the Federal Government, including the Government Declaration, has been held, is to make this as uniform and as manageable as possible during this legislative period. Then there was also the idea of introducing a self-retain for the doctor's visit to ASVG-insurers, who should be socially designed and covered for chronically ill or child-rich families – all other health insurances already have this self-retaining during the doctor's visit – so that the health certificate fee, which is intended as a transitional solution, can be replaced by such a unified system. And precisely what you, Dr. Grünewald, asked for at the end of your speech, we have also provided for this regulation that the main association, together with the social security institutions, should develop a model which is socially designed, which is covered, does not also bring an overload of chronically ill and child-rich families and is to be designed together with the self-management of the social community in social security institutions. The two outstretched hands you asked for are exactly this model, and no one is trying to overwhelm anyone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Her criticism that this is to be done by the main association, Dr. Grünewald, is totally unwarranted, because only this can guarantee that not in each individual federal state a different regulation is created, but that we come to a common, manageable arrangement. That's exactly what this sentence says! Ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore ask very, very cordially, that you do not try, as some people in Salzburg do, to insure patients in connection with this regulation now, to already work fear-making now, to try, above all, to scare older people who are more likely to be insecure. We will ensure – and this is our goal in the field of health reform – that the Austrians will continue to have fair access to medical services in the future. But let me also use this current hour to say a few things about the objectives we have in the health reform. We have undertaken to make health insurance health service centers out of the health insurance so that Austrians do not get sick as far as possible in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We will therefore put a focus on our work in addition to the exercise of duty, namely the rehabilitation and financing of the health insurance system, especially in health care. We want to rethink health policy. We simply want every Austrian and every Austrian to know that illness is not only the highest good, but that it is not a matter of course either. [[Abg. May. Posch: Is Illness the Most High Good?]] - Excuse me! Of course, I wanted to say that health is the highest good, but it is not natural, but that we also have to do something about it. [[Abg. Parnigoni: For the doctors, illness is the highest good!]] It is therefore particularly important to me to raise the health awareness of the Austrians and to ensure that they also know about their health care. I think that health care has five important pillars, and based on these five important pillars, our active information work will also move. It's about living healthier, it's about more movement, it's about relaxation and better stress management – especially at work, but increasingly also in leisure –, it's about better anchoring accident prevention in the leisure and household sectors – in the business sector we've managed – and it's also about implementing medical screenings so that as few people as possible have to die from people's diseases such as high blood pressure, diabetes or cancer. I ask you to support this national movement, which we want to achieve in all ages over the next three years – starting from the students, the professionals, to the pensioners – and to do something together to keep the Austrians healthy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e1959	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are now entering the debate. All speakers now have a speaking time of 5 minutes. I call Mr Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e1984	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Grünewald, you have today raised an accusation from this speaker's desk, which I do not wish to leave as a doctor. They have said so “locked by the stool” that the ÖVP or the government would treat the Austrian sick according to the motto: Whoever is sick is to blame himself! – I think as Doctor should deal with such accusations more carefully. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In fact, this is an injunction that is supported by nothing, by nothing at all. You have participated in negotiations, and you know exactly – I can read to you the corresponding passage of the Government Declaration – Federal Chancellor Schüssel has explicitly known himself to the world-class system and to access medical care regardless of income, regardless of the region and regardless of the type of disease. [[Abg. Parnigoni:... Special class!]] This is an essential point, that is Austrian tradition. But if we want to be world class in Austria – and this is what the WHO confirms: Place 9, EU satisfaction: Place 1 – then we have to call things by name. Then we have to see where there is a need. The Minister has already said: Medical progress and the higher life expectancy of the population are welcome, but cost. As a doctor, you know very well that 20,000 people suffer a stroke every year. This would correspond to the population of a city in the size of St. Pölten in two years. Caring for patients costs money, and we confess to it. [[Call the Greens: Pay yourself!]] Secondly, If you use an artificial hip every year for 14 000 Austrians, then the quality of life, but not the extension of life for these patients, means no pain, no more awakening at night. But it costs money! And if 15 000 heart attacks are performed in Austria, where vessels are extended, that means quality of life for the patients concerned, the survival means. This is not a matter of course, Mr Green Forest, as you seem to believe. Look at America! 40 million people are not insured there, and if someone cannot pay there, he can turn around and go home before the hospital, because then the treatment will be stopped. Look at Germany! [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: We are in Austria!]] In Germany, red-green took bureaucratic measures – please: Red-Green! – the patient refuses a whole range of medications. And you also know very well that in Germany only every tenth Alzheimer's patient gets his medicine because that was “turned off” by the bureaucracy to the doctors. So do not pretend to be on the island of Blessed Ones and you would have invented solidarity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Self retention is necessary, however, self retention should not stop patients from benefits, and the government's mission to social security is very clear, very simple: Self retention must be socially compatible! The magnitude we're talking about is about one percent of cash revenue. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] There you really can't say that this is an overload, nor to it, as no one yet knows how the model looks how high that amount will actually be. But they are obviously enlightened! I'm just like you're a doctor and I'm gonna leave this allegation. Whoever is sick is to blame himself!, don't stand that way. I find this accusation to be scandalous. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Because only the sick pay!]] In my opinion, they are advocating reality. If you don't give the health care money, what happens? – Then you have to ration covert! [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Mr. Rasinger, you're always talking about something else!]] Then you have to ration covert! And no performance – do you know what that means? – That means 100 percent self retention! We need money to improve our care. It would be a nice goal if you would go with us and say: We reduce the mortality rate in women with breast cancer by 50 percent! If you said, [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: This is Utopie!]] Let's fill the white spots if you say: If we do something about child cancer rehabilitation, we do something about cancer rehabilitation, we expand the hospice! [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: You don't do that!]] We from the ÖVP, we from the government want equal access – regardless of income! That's our credo!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2161	I now come to the floor, Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2179	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't want a two-class medicine, I don't want any increase in contributions, and I don't want new self-holds. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What do you want?]] – So far as one of the other or the many forward promises of the Federal Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. ==References== However, the facts, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, speak a different language. “We” – said the Federal Minister of Finance yesterday in his budget speech – “ have therefore authorised social security companies to withdraw from all insured persons a socially designed self-retain.” Let us now examine this neoliberal announcement for its plausibility! It has been shown, ladies and gentlemen, that health opportunities are different according to income and social status. It is therefore important for me to bear in mind: Health care is a public concern and not the private matter of the citizens of this country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This experience, ladies and gentlemen, also leads to strong doubts about the sense of general self-preservation, for one thing is clear: The use of health care decreases with increasing self-sufficiency. However, this effect is only short-term and is compensated more than just by increased intensity of supply. Self retention is generally dissuasive without distinguishing between necessary and less necessary treatments. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, the dissuasive effect, especially on low-income stakeholders, results in adverse health consequences and additional costs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The total revenue from self-retaining is mostly below expectations, and exceptions cannot guarantee real protection for poor and chronically ill people. The high administrative costs of exceptions are underestimated by many. The funding is, of course, regressive. In place of a solidaric risk compensation, sick and socially weak people are directly burdened. Therefore, health analysis assesses self retention as an inappropriate instrument to contribute to the objectives of justice and efficiency. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Against this background, self retention is primarily used as a political instrument. They serve as a symbol of a liberal, market-oriented policy approach that highlights individual responsibility. However, a contribution to solving structural health problems will not be made. [[New condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! It was said yesterday by you very much about credibility and trust. How would you now say the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany? In view of the enormous burden on sick and socially weak people in this country, do we assess this on July 2002? – I can take the answer for granted: That is, and there is nothing to blame for, a massive breach of the Federal Chancellor's trust towards the people of this country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Even yesterday's announcement by the Minister of Finance that there may be reliefs for people in this country is probably only to be considered as hollow rhetoric, given the burden on health care alone. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Not reforms in the health field are the guiding principles of your political action, but the handling of the wallets of sick and socially weak people. This will be condemned by us, and this path will certainly not be possible with us! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2250	Mrs Rosenkranz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2268	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Grünewald, you have begun your speech by agreeing that this field of policy is a particularly sensitive one. Of course! We will also be able to agree on the fact that the high level of our health care is a result of overall social efforts and that it is therefore also necessary to obtain the benefits from all; that it is inconceivable that there is a two-class medicine, as we see it in other European countries. We will, of course, be able to agree on this too. That's what I'm following now: There must be a reform, because if nothing happens, if not active, then something will happen. Then the level of the public health system will shrink. Some will notice that it will not be so conscious at all, and only those who have sufficient capital to buy private services will then be able to benefit from everything that is ultimately financed by everyone. And that must not happen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is a need for additional funding; there is no way to close your eyes before that. It has already been said twice – and it is pleasing in itself –: The high life expectancy, the high level of medical treatment, requires more money. You have to take note of that. For example, yesterday, the head of the Lower Austrian regional health fund stated in an issue that by 2005 an additional financing requirement of € 900 million is required. It's got to come. So the question is: how? I am now surprised that, at the beginning of a debate, the means of self-preservation are completely excluded, because I can remember that in the 1990s there was a number of self-preservations among only social-democratic health ministers, but at that time it was only for the acquisition of money. It was a kind of wild growth: sometimes the health certificate fee, the prescription fee, the high self-maintenance for remedies such as glasses, prostheses; those who have children know the story with the gears. Es gave a number of self - preservations, and they still exist! – So much for the “reality” of the discussion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In principle, however, it is already to be said that the means of self-holding, if it is not used for pure money collection and reasonable and coordinated, can also have good effects, because it forces – not only the patient, but above all those who work in the health field – to take care to deal with the existing resources. Things like double treatments and triple X-rays will then become because the customer – parentheses: Patient – it must be wondered that he has to be held back a little bit to the X-ray in which he will be involved costably. So I don't think that's so negative. The second thing I find unpleasant: They complain in other areas of politics, just like yesterday, that there is no discussion. Here one gives the self-government the opportunity to make a proposal. So what now? That's bad again? . I think it is excellent that self-management is called on to make a proposal, and therefore, of course, it is also appropriate to use the potential for savings in itself and then make a reasonable proposal on what is still open. There are also examples of which you cannot tell me that they are unsocial. I am thinking, for example, of the railways' health insurance fund. It's been working there for 30 years, and I hope you don't have the forehead to criticize it now. We will have to talk about the reform of health policy. You can certainly assume from us that we are aware that the most important goal must be that it does not come to a two-class medicine. That is why there must be a reform! It will be necessary to make this reform socially justifiable, i.e. chronically ill people, children and people with very low incomes will have to be taken into account accordingly. I am convinced that if you distance yourself from polemics, we will find an agreement here. I'm appealing to you: A politician who takes his responsibility seriously is not called upon to say what is most appropriate, but he is called upon to recognize the need and convince the citizens of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2348	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2366	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I do not want to make the mistake and you, Mrs Federal Minister, are now responsible for the shortcomings in health policy and also for the experience of the health policy of recent years. They are now making a new chapter and can also do some different things. But this requires a condition, Mrs. Federal Minister: You should learn from the past few years! I would like to begin by saying that in the year 2000 the Federal Government found a formulation on the self-maintainment, as it is now standing inside again; as nothing has changed, that is in fact word-identifiable: The coalition parties want to empower the main association to develop self-retaining arrangements. 2000 – 2003: In between, there are three terrible years of health policy, Mrs. Federal Minister. You are not responsible for this, and you also notice the result: Health policy has changed from FPÖ to ÖVP. But I'll tell you one thing: In 2001, that is, after this first statement, your first project, which you have actually implemented, was to recolor the main association. A catastrophic policy! In 2002 you harvested the chaos in the ambulance fee. And it was actually chaos that caused you there. That was bureaucracy, it was extra cost without revenue, and every person asked himself: What is this fee for? – That was the responsibility of this federal government. In 2003 the chaos continues with the chip card. The managing directors in the main association, at least those responsible for the chip card project, have left the pension, says: I'm no longer responsible! The contract for the chip card is dissolved, there are huge disputes. Yes, please, who is responsible for this, ladies and gentlemen? The main association has been recoloured. There must also be a political responsibility for this! - But they're not here anymore. One thing you know as well as I do, Mrs. Federal Minister: That with all the criticism that we Greens also practiced and still practice on the chipcard project, the chipcard is certainly the prerequisite for it to work much better in self-holding than it has worked in recent years. But you won't be able to implement the chipcard in about until 2005, and you must be happy already, and you know that too. What does that mean? . We are now faced with the fact that the main association, together with the cash registers, is to work out self-retaining arrangements which it cannot implement in a meaningful way before 2005. And, Mr Rasinger, the statement from you does not help me that the additional self-sufficiency is only one percent of the total health costs. That's not true, and you know that too! € 250 to 400 million is the expected revenue from self-reservation. We were told again and again: That's what we're expecting. That's not a percentage of the cost, that's much more! [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: You're a dream interpretation! You're insecure the patients!]] If you believe with a percent you can finance the health system, then deceive the population once again! It needs much more, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: You're insecure the patients! You think that's fair?]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we also agreed and called for it during the last legislative period: Let us increase the social security contributions! It doesn't make anyone happy, no one's fun, but it's the fairer solution. We also called for the government negotiations: Let us make concrete guidelines, targets for health care! For example, in the case of the diseases of the support and musculoskeletal apparatus, where it is really possible, in the diseases of the rheumatic formal circle, let us change the scope of such diseases – a target! – one, two or three percent reduction! That's where you can save money. Therefore: Let's make the precept! We save on occupational diseases – yes!, but not on costs and expenses, but actually on occupational diseases. But what are you doing instead? – They break down the only institution that would be in question for this to actually improve!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2426	Your speaking time, honourable Member! Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2441	They break down the only institution in question, namely the AUVA. That's your plan. Return to dialogue, make reforms – and not party politics!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2478	Mrs Riener has now spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2496	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the context of this debate, it is important for me to keep track of the following: The draft law is a first essential step towards harmonisation in the area of the already existing self-interest system, which has become inconceivable. We all know that self retention has grown to around €800 million in recent decades. Changes to make the system easier, simpler and more socially just should be welcomed by all of us. Self-retaining would mean endangering our world's first-class health system. In the future, however, an area in our society is a particular challenge to our health system, namely that of mental stress with consequences for illness. In my psychotherapist practice – and my professional colleagues are doing the same – I work more and more with people who suffer from depression. Imagine the following: You would be in my place in my practice. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The FPÖ is already depressive!]] A woman is crying in front of you. She's no longer able to care for the children. She can't do her job anymore. It has no strength for the daily requirements of life. – This shows the urgency of helping such people as best they can. But: Especially in this field of psychotherapy, we clearly have the highest level of self retention through the grant system. So there is a need for conversion. As a staff representative, I am also confronted with increased mental stress on my colleagues, such as burn-out syndrome, fears, mumbing and depression. Significantly, the WHO has proclaimed this century as that of depression. Since 1991 – that's 12 years! – are the health insurance companies through the 50. ASVG-Novelle called on to ensure Austrian-wide psychotherapy. Few federal states – and as the first federal state of Tyrol – have implemented their own solutions. Finally, it is about supporting people, staying fit for life and thus maintaining their employability. This is what I see as our duty to do. I am particularly pleased that our Minister of Health Maria Rauch-Kallatund Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel places a focus on health care in the health system. Health care in the psychological field means not only preventing suffering and long-term illness, but also strengthening responsibility for one's own life and health. Finally, a patient who cannot tell the doctor the symptoms cannot be helped. Finally, I would like to make one more proposal in the sense of this provision: Let us extend the health examinations around the mental realm so that we can live up to the holistic medical approach in the sense of unity of mind, soul and body! Many Austrians will thank us for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2539	Mrs Bures. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2557	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very happy about the topic of the current hour and this discussion, because of course the current discussion on the pension reduction action of this Federal Government overshadows everything else. That's clear. This pension reduction action is also the most massive intervention in human life planning. However, this overshadows a number of other unreasonable intentions that this Federal Government has incorporated into the budget accompanying law. The introduction of the restraints we are now discussing is one of these further unreasonable intentions of this federal government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] With the introduction of self-retaining, you will unfortunately make it difficult for people to access optimal medical care in the future. They will thus continue on the path towards two-class medicine, where those who cannot afford it do not find the excellent health care. In reality, they only continue the black and blue course of the last government period, because if it were in the past or if it were up to now the sick ambulance charges with which you have tormented sick people, it is now self-hold that you will introduce. The important questions for people, namely how high these self-esteems will be, how the type of introduction of these self-holds and the form of accounting will look, have you not answered these questions today, Mrs Federal Minister, and have obviously not answered them either. You are trying to make it easy to do so, and you are putting this very important question, namely Austria's health insurance companies and doctors. That's proof that you don't learn from mistakes, that's proof that you obviously haven't learned anything from the error ambulance fee and therefore, in fact, only insecure people. I believe that it is not a policy task to insure people, but to give them security. Unfortunately, they do the opposite. An example of this: In the budget debate, the Minister of Finance said yesterday that the tax and tax rate had to be reduced. Today, we are discussing self retention – a tax invention for sick people. The “standard” also evaluates yesterday’s budget speech in such a way that it could be said that the motto of this government is based on a guiding principle of Konrad Adenauer, that is: What's my joke about yesterday?! ==References====External links== In June, there will be no new restraints. We've got them on the table now. His motto is: What's my joke about yesterday? Mrs Bundesminister, you promised people that there would be no changes in early retirement pensions. Also Your motto is obvious: What's my joke about yesterday? Now it may be that you do not “shear” your own “swallow. ” Sad is just that You don't care about people's concerns that you don't care about how sick people are and especially those people who don't have income like you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You didn't learn anything from the mistakes. We will experience the ambulance fee II with the self-preserved. This will put in place a measure which will result in not all having the same access, but will, as has been said, be dependent on income. I think that, apart from this government, the population is glad that the ambulance charges are gone. The population has not deserved that you try to hide in a budget-accompanied law further self-hold and thus the ambulance fee II, but Austria would already need a health reform, a health reform that is going to ensure our excellent health system and further develop it so that it can respond to new diseases, to new challenges as well. Austria needs a health system in which all receive first-class care, regardless of income. You don't guarantee that. So you're going the wrong way!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2620	Mr Lichtenegger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2639	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Minister! Oh, my God! I think that what most insecures people is when someone turns out and says how bad everything is. I can tell you – I am very often with doctors and know it from various studies – that we have a very good system, and that is always confirmed to us. I am also very satisfied and still healthy. What people don't want to hear at all or what they can't understand is if someone makes himself and says how bad everything is and what we don't have. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There are proposals to withdraw € 5 or € 10 per doctor's visit. On the other hand, we prefer a uniform system, a self-retaining solution, as we know, for example, from the ÖBB, where it actually works very well. And you don't have anything against it, strangely, because... – For example, there it works very well. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Is it unsocial at the ÖBB?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's it!]] The system has proved to be successful, but there is no excitement from your governments, from trade union hedge protectors, for example. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This system is quite good, we could imagine a similar one. There are, of course, exceptions for social weakness, i.e. for those people who cannot afford it, or for chronically ill people who use a lot of benefits. There are also surveys that show that the population is in agreement and that there is a great deal of support for the introduction of self-maintainment. We are not afraid of a two-class society, because what we find right now is a multi-class society. This has been left behind, and it is not acceptable that two patients receive different benefits for the same contributions, for example. The difference between Vienna and Vorarlberg is huge, even in dentistry. I know from Vorarlberg that there are big differences in the basic services and people are asked to cash out. With self-preservation, we want to ensure that everyone gets the necessary performance for him without being socially disadvantaged. The SPÖ, for example, is in principle for self-retaining in health care. Of 17 different self-holds that are currently available, 16 have been introduced by ministers who have come out of your ranks. That's been introduced over the past 30 years, they were your people. It is strange that no one has said anything. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's it!]] The main association, as I believe and hope, will also present a fair model, which should firstly strengthen the health awareness of the Austrian population and, secondly, cause a certain cost awareness to arise and also the awareness that health is not a matter of course. I know enough countries where it is not a matter of course, for example in America or Australia, that you go to the doctor, take benefits and get everything paid. With a certain cost awareness, a certain quality of the health system can also be ensured. The economy believes that self-retaining in the health system is an essential means of achieving better and more efficient control in the health system. We, also I personally, consider the self-holding to be a good thing, because the quality of our health is simply the most important thing. For certain services you can also pay a corresponding amount of self-retainance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2732	Mrs Haidlmayr has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2750	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister, you said today that everyone who needs help will get her too. That's basically true. The question is, however, too well- chem price. And the question is: Can anyone actually afford the price you demand for it? That's how it's going to be with the self-serving. Mrs. Minister! You need to know that it makes a difference whether in the quarter of 10, 15 € I pay at an income of 600, 700 € or at that income, the woman minister Gehrer has. Mrs Gehrer said recently on TV: Why are you all so upset? I'll pay for it, too. – Of course, she pays for self retention, but the income she pays lies in the Promille area. For someone who has an income of not even €1,000, the amount of self - retention may be a double-digit percentage. There's the difference! That is why I mean, that is exactly where we have to sit, Mrs. Minister. If you say that we are doing so anyway, we are making it dependent on income or socially staggered, then you already know that the administrative burden for income surveys will be much higher than the self-sustaining will actually bring. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We all know that, and you know it. Mrs. Minister! Another point: If you say that the quality should rise by self retention, then I must resist this: That's just not right! This does not increase the quality and performance of ASVG insured persons. They do not have any more benefits, they are not aligned to the benefits, for example, of those insured at the insurance institution of public servants. If the offer of services would automatically have increased with the introduction of self retention, we might have been able to discuss it. But they only want a money acquisition action without increasing the quality of the services for the insured person, and I reject that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister! Not everyone has the same access to health care. You know that. I only mention the structural circumstances. I do not have a free choice, Mr Huainigg, but we have to go to the doctors we can reach on the basis of the structural conditions. Those who have a low income can also not drive to the specialist in the next place or to the nearest city because they can usually not pay the travel costs. So they have to stay where they are. Mrs. Minister! You know, health care or health care in the event of illness is always a question of income. If you have a high income, you can judge it relatively well. Whoever has a low or no income, has to accept what is there, and that's not much anymore. Therefore, it is really not to be seen that you now require taxes from people who are sick – and self retention is quite easy to tax, you can call it as you want, it is taxes – without increasing the quality and performance offer. Nor have you mentioned that there is still no equal right of rehabilitation for all throughout Austria, and it is a huge difference why I need rehabilitation and what income I have. Let's talk about something else, let's not talk about restraint! The collection costs more than the yield will be. Let's talk about the same right to rehabilitation and equal opportunities in health care for all people in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2817	The 60 minutes of the current hour have expired. By the way, no one has made any mention either. The debate is closed. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2838	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the response 42/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3061	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply 42/B of Question No 56/J by Members. Mayer, colleagues and colleagues in relation to the right of inquiry under the notification law by the Federal Minister for the Interior. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3086	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. We are therefore going into this agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3115	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debate. We have agreed on a day block time of 9 “Vienna hours”. ÖVP and SPÖ each 157.5 minutes, Free 108 and Green 117 minutes. The following speech time agreement was also reached for the debate from 10.10 a.m. to 14.05 a.m., transmitted by the ORF: First of all, one speech per group of 20 minutes, then a member of the government with 12 minutes, then one word per group of 10 minutes each, then a member of the government with 6 minutes each, then one word per group with 5 minutes, then a member of the government with 5 minutes, then a member of the government with 5 minutes, then one word per group with 5 minutes; then a member of the government with 5 minutes each, and another one word per group with 5 minutes each. Before the end of the final round, remaining periods will be evenly distributed among all political groups. There is also agreement that actual corrections will be called after the television broadcast time. The intention is to interrupt the meeting from 13.00 to 13.15 in order to give the ORF the opportunity to send out its normal programme, namely news. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal of the Presidential Conference to give a sign on this point. – This is unanimously adopted, and we are therefore doing so. 1. Point First reading of the Government template concerning the Federal Finance Act for 2003 and investments (60 of the Supplements) 2. Point First reading of the Government template concerning the Federal Finance Act for 2004 and Appendices (61 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3167	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The speaking times are now known. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Mag. Molterer's word. Desirable 20 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3192	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A few weeks ago, exactly nine weeks ago, this Federal Government was praised. In this statement of government by Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, which is under the motto “Future needs responsibility”, key key points have been held in the key future projects of this Federal Government for our country Austria. In this statement of government, ladies and gentlemen, Wolfgang Schüssel has stated that it is the first and essential objective in Austria to continue an offensive location policy, to enable an offensive growth policy, to make offensive efforts so that employment – with the aim of full employment in Austria – remains a reality. Building on the solid performance of workers in this country, the strong performance of the economy will succeed in implementing the goal of full employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the time, it was also clearly defined that offensive location policy, offensive economic policy, offensive employment policy of course also needs a dynamic, offensive educational policy, offensive strategy in the training of our young people – from apprentice to university graduates – and, of course, an offensive research policy, because research and development are the potential for our country, where we want to promote the bright minds, so that work through creativity, through innovation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This declaration sets out as the third level of equality that we want to expand social security and where it is necessary, this expansion and the safeguarding of the social system through the necessary conversion – the necessary conversion! – and want to ensure the further development of our social system, through reforms where they are necessary, through reforms where people recognise this need, and by the basic idea that only if we are ready for these reforms in the field of social security can in the long term the most important good in this country, namely social cohesion between generations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is just as important as the question of social security. Security is for people in this country, for citizens, of course, internal security and external security. There is therefore no doubt – and I say that quite clearly on behalf of the Austrian People's Party: For us security is not interchangeable, for us there is no security either or, but only one as well, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It's clear to us: It is not interchangeable with social security, nor is it possible to replace social security in small-scale politics on the market, nor is it possible to defend the sovereignty of our country. Ladies and gentlemen! It is too important to have the exact same level of attention on the one hand in the perspective of social security, but the consequence on the other hand, when it comes to internal and external security policy. The aim of this declaration is to relieve citizens, workers, the economy. We want to make this discharge possible by allowing us to undertake a comprehensive reform of tasks in the state and thus achieve an essential objective, namely a sound, responsible budgetary policy in this country, a budgetary policy that does not put the young at the expense of the future, because it would be irresponsible and unsocial and would therefore certainly not be made by the Austrian People's Party and the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is therefore to be thanked that it is this federal government in the very shortest time – in these nine weeks, ladies and gentlemen! – has managed not only to present a comprehensive budget accompanying law, but – and this is very important for the future of our country – also a double budget for the years 2003 and 2004, a budget that is rightly referred to as a future budget, a budget that, from my point of view, can be described as a budget of responsibility, a budget that meets the motto of “responsible for the future”. The key points of this double budget, presented yesterday by Mr Finanzminister in an impressive way, ladies and gentlemen, are first of all: [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] We want – and this federal government will ensure – that the path of consolidation, of course, the path of sound budgetary policy continues consistently in this legislative period in the Cabinet and the Cabinet Schüssel II. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen – and this is simply a matter of political sense on the one hand, but of economic sense – that a state cannot act differently from a private businessman or a household: You can't spend more time in the long run than you take because you're otherwise drawn to the future with an uncovered change. And that's not our policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Eder: There's a difference!]] It therefore remains, of course, the zero deficit as a goal, because I believe that the state must put itself out of its economic and social responsibility. But it is necessary to go the way to this goal in such a way that we finally take account of the economic needs and the economic situation. Therefore, the way is to go towards a zero deficit in such a way that it is achieved over the economic cycle, resulting in a balanced budget. I think that the figures given in these two budgets will ultimately meet that objective. And I just remember, ladies and gentlemen – had you heard very attentively yesterday “Medtagsjournal”! – to what Professor Kramer said. [[Contradict with the SPÖ and the Greens]] He first noted that the Institute for Economic Research: This is a solid budget based on the careful forecasts of the Economic Research Institute. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, he said clearly: It is particularly necessary in this economic situation that the budget should also give the right impetus. It therefore considers a deficit to be quite acceptable in a certain period of time and in a certain dimension if, in good times, the surplus actually comes back to a long-term deficit. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: But there are no good times with the ÖVP!]] The second cornerstone – Mr President Fischer, perhaps interested This is particularly so – it is that in the area of the budget we continue a consistent path also in reducing administrative costs, according to the motto “better for citizens and cheaper for taxpayers”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And I tell you that this was and is the Federal Government, which has already achieved a very important step by reducing, for example, the Federal Staff expenditure, the Federal Government's personnel costs from 5.27 percent of GDP in 1999 to 4.5 percent of GDP in 2004. We do not talk, we act according to the motto “Better for the citizen, cheaper for the taxpayer”! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, we know that the end of a process has not been achieved here, no, I am very grateful to all the parties and the local authorities here in Parliament that it is possible in a comprehensive Austrian consensus that the Austrian Convention is about the major state reform in order to ultimately increase the scope of public budgets in the Federal Government and countries for necessary future investments. Assuming future investments: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The budgets for 2003 and 2004 provide the right impetus for our country's future investments, which are necessary so that we can actually achieve the common goal of becoming Top III in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! Budget expenditure for education and science is increasing to over €9 billion by 2004. [[Abg. Mandak: That's not true!]] That is as much as never before in this Republic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For research, the budget expenditure increased from 1.2 billion in 1999 to 1.56 billion in 2004. This is a dynamic in research and development that we have never had before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] In the infrastructure – one of the most important investments for the site – expenditure will grow from 2.1 billion in 1999 to an all-time high of 2.85 billion, ladies and gentlemen. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] This is important so that we can take advantage of the opportunity of enlargement by means of infrastructure investment. Ladies and gentlemen! I have spoken about the necessary investment in the field of internal and external security. Here, too, you see – and these are the facts and figures in this budget – that we spend 4.3 billion on internal and external security in 2004 compared to 1999, where 4.1 billion euros have been spent. We're not just talking about security. We give security by acting and investing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Take-off hunters!]] In the field of social policy, I would just like to mention two examples. One concerns the area of family benefits. [[The speaker shall keep another document up to date.]] It's in this country... – Maybe you can put yourself on the head, ladies and gentlemen, so you can see it properly. [[Abg. Sburny: That's wrong!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this country, family benefits have never been spent as much as they have by this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Families and children are so much worth to us that we are also willing to make over €5 billion available for family benefits in this budget in 2004 to give the right perspective as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will also make the necessary expenditure in the area of pensions and pension insurance in this budget in order to ensure pensions for old and young. But – I emphasize this in a special way –: We are not going the way of refusal of reality, but at the same time we are also going the way of reforms with the necessary budget expenditure on social security, because in the field of social security security, security is only guaranteed in the long term if we take care of it in good time. [[Abg. Sburny: But the risk! That's what we heard yesterday!]] [[Abg. Sburny: Increased risk!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This, too, is one of what a budget does quite naturally, namely to ensure that security and social security are guaranteed in the future. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Which budget are you talking about? Talk about it!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! First of all, do not deny reality, and second of all, do not be insecure to the population! [[Abg. May. Kogler: You're talking about Las Vegas!]] I don't know if it's new to you, but if it's new to you, it would be a shame. But I can recapitulate this: Austria is the number one in the field of social security worldwide! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In total, we spend more than 14 percent of the gross domestic product on pension insurance with contributions from insured and public budgets in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Do you want to break up?]] No other country in the world has this level, and no other country in the world will reach this level even after the reform implemented. [[Abg. May. Worm: You're breaking it!]] I appeal once again to the basic consensus in the population and the political parties that I believe is also given, because the need for a pension reform cannot and must not be challenged, because it cannot be disputed that people are in training for three years, spend six years less at work, and enjoy the pension for twelve years. [[Abg. May. Worm: Not everyone!]] Thank God! But if that were the case, it would be just as negligent to the future generation if we did not now take these measures. Ladies and gentlemen! I have the impression that there is a fundamental consensus about creating a uniform pension right. We'll do it. We will present this uniform pension right. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: You are afraid of a referendum!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have the impression that a basic consensus exists, for example, in the question of calculation. I recall the last debate here in the House when you, Mrs Prammer, said that you have always been in favour of lifelong throughput for reasons of justice. [[Abg. May. Prammer: But!]] We now propose to increase this calculation to 40 years by a 25-year transition. [[Abg. May. Worm: Half truth!]] I have the impression that there is a consensus on the question – Mr Gusenbauer has this also in his model – that after 45 years of contribution, 80 percent of net replacements are to be achieved. This results in an increase of 1.78 percent, as we propose and implement it in a three-year transitional period. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] In the same way, from my point of view, I see a consensus that it is necessary to bring the actual retirement age to the legal level. I therefore appeal to all parties involved: Let us bring the way of this consensus to a good result, so that this pension reform deserves the name, secures the future and looks to the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and does not turn people's eyes to sand! This is the responsible way for the future! [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You don't know what this is, the truth!]] I therefore also appeal from this point of view: Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the way in Austria to force something through strikes and the pressure of the road. I remind President Vergestnich that a long-standing, I would say, consultant to the ÖGB, my labour law teacher at the University of Linz, Professor Strasser, about the question: How do you assess the strikes against the pension reform?, answers: The action falls under the category of political strike and is illegal. He's against a state body. – That’s the ruling opinion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I appeal to you that in the actions you seem to have to do, you must also step up the political dimension. [[Abg. Sburny: This is the ruling opinion!]] [[Abg. Sburny:... there is no more opposition!]] Mr President of the Council! It cannot be said that, on the basis of these actions, a Member of this House should be put under pressure and therefore clearly restricted in their exercise of the free mandate. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Put up the club force!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr President, this is my last sentence: Nor can it be – I take this from a weekly newspaper – that the strike is based on who is in the Federal Government or who is adviser to the Federal Chancellor. This is the fact of the mask from the face...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3635	Your speaking time has expired, Mr Klubobmann. Klubobmann Josef Cap has requested that the Stenographical Protocol of the speech of Mr Lichtenegger be drawn up at the "Current Hour" – it is before me – and he has requested a call for order I have given him. Lichtenegger said: “For example, there it also works very well. The system is well established, but no one is upset by your rulers, by trade union snipers, for example.” That's the call for order. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: You don't have to be that delicate!]] Mr Gusenbauer, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. The speaking time is 20 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3667	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Yesterday we learned some new things, namely: [[Abg. Grill: Hopefully!]] If the Minister of Finance raises taxes and taxes, he calls it the “the biggest tax reform ever”. If he shortens pensions, he calls them “pension insurance. ” And if the deficit, the debts of the federal government grow, he calls it “consolidation”. – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen, this is unacceptable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The impression at all is that both Mr Finanzminister's speech yesterday and Mr Molterer's speech on behalf of the honourable Member and Mr Klubobmann Molterer have very little to do with what is actually reflected in this numbering of the budget. [[Abg. Scheibner: Here we are excited about what you bring!]] Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner! I understand your unrest. [[Abg. Scheibner: I'm very quiet!]] If I were to belong to a government which has such a budget, I would be quite concerned, ladies and gentlemen, too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I just hope you will say something about the numbers!]] The most beautiful sentence of Mr. Finanzminister was yesterday: Reduce taxes, give freedom. That was a wonderful sentence! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Bravo! That's right!]] If you apply this sentence to the Minister of Finance and look at what he has done in recent years, you have to find out: He was a finance minister of insecurity, because he has permanently increased taxes, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But the attitude behind it seems particularly interesting to me: Give freedom. In other words, the Minister of Finance believes that it is his task to give Austrians freedom. Ladies and gentlemen! I assumed that we are living in a free democratic country and do not need a government-oriented finance minister who gives us freedom! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But you could also philosophise about the quote!]] But obviously the Minister of Finance has great problems with individual freedoms, because he spoke several times yesterday against the measures taken by the trade unions who have employed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] More than that, he said he was in favour of restricting the right of strike. That would have been the consequence of his statements. But the most depressing thing about his speech was that he referred to former ÖGB President Anton Benya as a witness to his position. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: That hurt, I understand!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Olah!]] - He mentioned both. And I would just like to say that if in recent days the social partners and their traditions have been referred to, then I would like to point out that former ÖGB President Anton Benya was very touching in a speech on 6 June. Austria has been the world's model for many decades, thanks to the social partnership, and the EU is building its future on the model of social partnership. [[Abg. Scheibner: Wrong speech!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Benya didn't happen yesterday!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But he quoted Olah and not Benya!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Very inaccurately prepared! That's not a real speech!]] And he exhorted toward the black and blue coalition that free trade unions and self-management were also disabled in the Austro-fascist state. Anton Benya was in deep concern. And now, as it has been the case in recent days to make Anton Benya a witness against this trade union policy, that is unheard of, disrespectful and repudiate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the ÖVP:Olah!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Molterer pointed out that it would be irresponsible to make debts in the future. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The budget that we have available for the years 2003 and 2004 leads to a new debt of €7.3 billion or €100 billion in this year and next year. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: These are the interest rates for the old debts!]] That is to say, in its own division, this Federal Government is pursuing an irresponsible policy by further increasing the debt of our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: I'm just saying Kreisky!]] If you say that in an economically bad situation, it is reasonable to buy deficits, then I would remind you that in the year of the worst recession, namely in 2001, you said: There must be a zero deficit, the state cannot do anything against the economic crisis. – Now that times are going to improve, there is no problem at all with deficits, even if they make up 100 billion schilling! That is to say, you are not making a shaping economic policy, but your deficits are the result of increased unemployment and low economic growth. That is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Kreisky!]] They have said today – I really think that is significant how to deal with the House and the public – that: The science and education budget will be greatly increased in 2004. I was impressed by it myself! [[Abg. May. Worm: Nebuliser!]] I was impressed and read this in the documents provided to us by the Ministry of Finance, because it would indeed have been amazing if the science budget increased by almost 10 billion schilling in 2004, i.e. around 733 million euros. But when you look into the books, you notice that from the year 2004 the university teachers no longer fall directly into the Federal Staff budget, but that they will be paid by the universities in the future. [[Abg. May. Worm: These are the tricks!]] This leads to the fact that on the one hand, the Federal staff expenditure is falling and on the other hand, the educational budget is increasing. That means the government is famous then: We lower staff costs and increase the education budget without a single additional euro going to universities. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, you should get used to these tricks! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Incredible!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] As you continue to talk about the “Education offensive”: You also have to pay attention to the open bills. According to the reports of the University of Applied Sciences Council, there will be around 4,000 additional places at Austrian vocational colleges in 2004. That is very welcome! Only the expenditure for this will remain as high as in 2003 at € 107 million in 2004. That is why my question is: How should there be the additional 4,000 places if there are no more resources for this? Does this mean that the fees for students will be increased in the future, or does that mean that the budget has not taken the right precautions for the additional university students? Ladies and gentlemen! This budget in many cases has nothing to do with your political announcements, it is often the opposite. They should give pure wine to the people and not spread untruths. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Bandolero, Chianti, Green Veltliner! What kind can it be?]] I understand, Mr Molterer: With you, the path from half-truth to untruth is extremely short, I have already noted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What about the wine?]] The Minister of Finance has announced a great tax relief. This tax relief in 2004 looks like adding the increases in taxes and taxes that working people will not have at all a discharge next year, but, quite the contrary, will pay more taxes and taxes than this is the case in this year. If you add the increase in health insurance contributions, the increase in mineral oil tax, the increase in energy taxes, you see that this is more about government taxes and taxes than there are on the other hand due to the discharges. Ladies and gentlemen! I already ask myself the question: What does someone who receives a tax relief of €4 per year through your tax reform, with the additional energy costs and health insurance contributions that will significantly exceed that? Ladies and gentlemen! They do not lower taxes, you increase taxes and taxes, and thus consistently continue your course, namely, to increase the tax and tax burden, without putting real economic policy impulses. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] According to your own documents, your economic policy leads to the fact that next year's economic growth in Austria will unfortunately be 0.5 percent lower than the average of the European Union. I do not think that this is a particular piece of fame given the situation that over the last 20 years, Austria has, in the majority of cases, had an economic growth which is above the average of the European Union. If you are already talking about the internationally difficult situation and say that there is only a small margin of time, then, I would say, at least the objective must be that Austria achieves the growth of economic wealth as the average of the EU countries. At 0.5 percent less we and Austrian workers will not be satisfied next year, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A central part of this budget is obviously the measures taken in the pension area. There is no doubt, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, that we need to do something to secure pensions in the long and medium term, and I am in favour of that. [[Call the ÖVP:But!]] Don't be surprised if he's already quoted it positively before. These artificial excitements lack any credibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is also quite right that we should strive for a system that means that after 45 years of contribution, someone gets 80 percent net replacement. That too is quite right, Mr Molterer. The problem is that there are three serious problems in your proposal for a pension reform. The first problem is: According to what you have presented here in the house, the net replacement rate of today's under-40s will not be 80 percent even after 45 years of contributions, because there is no correct appreciation of the contributions paid. [[Abg. Oils: That's it!]] I am not talking about the design that can come in the future, but about those contributions that people have already paid in recent years. As long as there is no proper appreciation of insurance contributions, there will not be 80 percent pension. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, a serious point that needs to be changed, is to ensure that 80 percent really come out at the end – and not 55 percent. That is at least the goal of our Social Democrats. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The second serious defect is: If two people work in a farm today and one goes to pension this year and the other next year, I ask you: How can you justify that the person who retires next year, with exactly the same insurance periods, will get by 15 percent less than the one who retires this year? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is no single social policy argument that would justify this procedure. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: That's just not true! That's the problem!]] This is an expropriation action that needs to be corrected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: It is immense what you say!]] The third point is: The last years of the Black and Blue Government have led to an average annual unemployment rate of 45 000 higher than before in Austria. At a time of robustly high unemployment, it cannot be the task of the State to artificially increase unemployment, for example by means of this pension reduction reform, but quite the contrary: [[Abg. Scheibner: When before?]] The task of the state must be to create a framework for unemployment to fall and not continue to rise, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I followed with great interest that the Minister of Finance said yesterday: Today we inherit the problems of early retirement actions of the eighties and nineties. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know which employer in Austria is the earliest to release the workers and send them to retirement? – It is the state, and it is the state-near companies that send workers at 55 years or less into retirement, while the rest is said to work up to 65 years. This is not a good employer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Your railers, your ÖBB!]] Therefore, a government should at least be able to do the same in the State and the Government, which is actually required of the other undertakings. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why is the ÖBB union threatening to strike if you want to increase the retirement age there? What about the railways?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Why do you want to strike there?]] In addition, Mr Finanzminister's thesis has also been interesting that we need greater risk and greater risk in our country. I think this is a bold thesis, especially when it comes from the Minister of Finance. The risk of employees in Austria insured with ASVG is either that they have a job or are unemployed or are retired. Mr Finanzminister's risk is: If he no longer fulfils this activity, he can return to his former establishment. Such a risk cover would be desired by many Austrians. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] If you are in the made bed, you can easily talk about being willing to risk others, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Your speech yesterday, Mr. Finanzminister, has been clearly assessed, as I can read in a comment by Michael Moravec today. [[Abg. Großruck: Do you know what a company is, Mr. Gusenbauer?]] Almost all that was announced and invented in the government bowl I with missionary fiery zeal is now no longer true, has never been said so, unfortunately no more is possible. The balance sheet you have presented and what you are planning in the future is: Increase taxes, reduce growth, increase deficit, reduce pensions, increase debt, reduce future investment, increase unemployment and reduce education. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That's not a future budget! You stay with all those where you talk about future tasks, in the dark, using shame and tricks in the budget. They are only where it is about disposing of the population! Therefore, Mr Moravec also summarized your speech yesterday with your own words by writing: “For, as Grasser said yesterday: Winning will be the quick and good. And not the slow and the unconcealed. No good prognosis for him – and Austria.” – Meeting could not be expressed, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For this reason, the nicest rhymes can also not deny that this budget does not do anything to stimulate the economy, that this budget does not set forward forward-looking investments, that this budget remains guilty of everything in terms of structural reforms, and that this budget actually suffers a deficit due to lack of economic and political imagination. It is precisely only for the cuts for the population – truly a witness of poverty, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4234	Mr Bucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speech time: 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4252	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Party leader Gusenbauer made it very easy for me: If you get out of here today and say you learned something yesterday, I have to say that this is a lot late, because we have had 30 years of social-democratic policy to deal with our country. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Rejoicing and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Reheis: Do you like something new?]] But I promise you that we will continue this learning process today. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We would like to continue to provide you with some information. It is absolutely essential, Mr Gusenbauer, to make a brief look back on the past so that you can better understand the future development of the state budget. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The objective of budgetary policy in Austria in recent years has been to consolidate the general government budget, to put it in order first, to spend only what is being used and to comply with the directives of the European Growth and Stability Pact. This is an objective which has been achieved entirely in the same way as the European Economic and Monetary Union in order to ensure the international competitiveness of the EU Member States. Although this was achieved by most EU Member States at the start of FPÖ's government in 2000, this was not true of Austria's so-called Social Democratic leadership until then. Between 1997 and 1999, the general government deficit among social-democratic finance ministers increased from 1.9 percent to 2.3% of gross domestic product in just two years. This was the second worst result throughout the European Union. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: He forgot that, colleague Gusenbauer!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite excellent economic conditions, fiscal consolidation in Austria was cancelled at the time, not started in time, while all EU Member States responded, started consolidations and achieved enormous progress in budget management. The year 2000 ended with the planless SPÖ debt policy, with the panic budgets of a Mr. Klima, with Mr. Edlinger's shudge budget. Government parties ÖVP and FPÖ have recognised that there can be no consolidation in this way and that certain changes are necessary in order to lead Austria into a successful future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let's keep in mind what the cabinet bowl I took over from inheritance! I can repeat this again: 165 billion € Debt, 7 billion € Interests per year. [[Call to the liberals: mad!]] [[New call to the liberals: mad!]] In the meantime, no one is talking about eradication, about a eradication concept, we are just talking about an interest rate burden that we have to cover each year. 7 billion € – these are 100 000 apartments that we could give to socially in need of Austrians! The new Federal Government decided in 2000 to launch the consolidation course with the aim of achieving a balanced budget within two years. The deficit could be reduced with great success. The zero deficit was already reached in 2001 – a year earlier than planned. In 2001, a general government surplus of 0.3 percent of GDP was achieved for the first time after almost 30 years of SPÖ government. The focus on research and development, on innovation-safed employment and supported the economic location of Austria in a sustainable way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Training and higher-qualification offensives led to more business start-ups. The second economic package in 2002 achieved increased investment, growth and employment and youth employment in a very difficult economic phase. Both economic packages permanently relieved the economy with more than €500 million. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In 2002, the general government deficit was 0.6 percent of GDP. This is much less than was assumed in the autumn of last year, when the forecast was still 1.3 percent of GDP. Under the heading, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very good interim report, which can be proud of in view of the difficult overall economic situation of Europe and the whole world. Austria today is considered a stable and secure country in Europe! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We've got 1st with 1st day. A record employment in May. There were never so many people at work before. With 4.1 percent, Austria has the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union, with 1.7 percent the third lowest inflation rate, an export growth of over 4 percent – twice as high as in the rest of the European Union. And Austria has a trade balance, with which a surplus has been generated for the first time since the Second Republic existed – despite the difficult economic situation and the problems of our main trading partner Germany. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Reforms are important, even in economically very difficult phases. It is essential that we make reforms. Only those who trust will trust him! This Federal Government ensures another building block with the Double Budget 2003/2004. This is a way that clearly also carries the liberal manuscript. The declared intention of raising Austria to one of the top 3 economic locations in Europe will provide more investment and secure jobs. Employment ensures income, prosperity and social peace. However, we are only doing this with further deeper reforms – reforms such as in public administration through the saving of service posts, the abolition of parallel structures and the use of modern management methods and controlling instruments in all self-government bodies and social security bodies. In the field of health, as we have already discussed today, we are able to achieve this through a reasonable solution to self-maintenance, through an economic orientation and an increase in the degree of self-financing, by reducing the amount of discretion and safeguarding pensions in the long term. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want to continue the path of consolidation, and we do not want to allow the road to be pressured in the pension reform. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It would be grotesk to give in now and make the bock that destroyed the garden a gardener. [[Abg. Oellinger: What does Haider say about this?]] We will not allow that, ladies and gentlemen, [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Not only do we want a pension reform, but we want a long-term pension security reform. That's the crucial difference! Although Austria has one of the most reliable pension systems in the world, it also has one of the most expensive pension systems. We agree that the pension system in Austria – as we have discussed it today – has changed. We are living longer and longer despite or on the basis of an excellent health policy. [[Abg. Brosz: Despite your health policy!]] The average life expectancy has increased by 8.3 years over the last 30 years. The pension years used have doubled during this period. 30 years ago, the people in Austria worked 43 years, and today they only work for 37 years on average. This development will continue in the future. In order to be able to finance the pension system, we need to make changes. [[Abg. Oellinger: But you do not receive much approval from your group!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of Abg. Oellinger) Take care of your own group!]] So action is underway, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We are not only responsible for what we do, but we are also responsible for what we do not! We should also take this into account in the course of the pension reform. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What happens if, in the course of this pension reform, nothing comes out again and it only comes back to a referendum, as was the case in the past under the Social Democratic leadership, a flicking work is created that does not guarantee that pensions will remain secure in the future? I read this brochure of the Vorarlberg Chamber of Workers. [[Abg. Mandak: This is the black Chamber of Workers!]] It states that if we did not do anything, we would have to increase the contribution rates by 53 percent, cut pensions by 45 percent, increase the retirement age by 11 years, or set measures that had already increased the amount of tax subsidies to pension insurance in 2006 to € 15 billion. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's a shame from yesterday!]] These are measures we do not want! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These measures would be absurd and unsocial and therefore should not be done with us. Every month, my dear ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it costs us several million euros. [[Abg. Oillinger: But that's not true!]] All these problems are due to a lack of family policy over the last decades and to an early retirement wave tolerated by SPÖ in the 1980s and 1990s to enhance unemployment statistics in the nationalized industry. [[Abg. Oils: What's that supposed to mean?]] [[Abg. Hagenhofer: What are you doing?]] All of this is a permanent burden on the pension system, ladies and gentlemen. We can't let that happen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can again quote the SPÖ member and the ex-ÖGB chief Franz Olah, since it has already made the party president of the Social Democrats so strong today. [[Abg. Oils: Don't give us that!]] Franz Olah is right to say: "Streiks may be in a democracy, but they do not solve the problem, and the problem is: too few children, too few payers, too many expropriators. The original sin was committed in the eighties and nineties when the politicians opened the locks and wanted to resolve the crisis of the nationalists by sending masses to early retirement. A fooly!" Ladies and gentlemen! The ex-ÖGB chief Franz Olah must know, he was with us at the time. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Freedom Party has already succeeded in bringing about some improvements in the area of pension security reform compared with the Federal Government's draft. The unjust propaganda of the social democrats does not lead to a reconstitution or a reconnaissance, but to confusion among people and with pensioners. This does not make sense in the interests of the country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Riess-Passer sent everyone to bed with 55! “Great” performance!]] They claim that pensioners must also be afraid of their pension. - That's wrong! [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] In existing pensions is not intervened! They claim that all longer workers will receive less pension. – That’s also wrong! Those who can go now, but stay longer, for whom nothing will change in the future. [[Abg. Oillingers: Don't read your brochures!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I could continue this argument now. [[Abg. Oils: No, please!]] You have extremely uncertain people with calculations that do not agree, you have grossly confused with net. These are falsified facts – a process that people do not appreciate. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Is your text?]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: From the bowl!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of SPÖ) You need it!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Their refusal of dialogue in the area of pension reform goes seamlessly into the 2000 scenario with the creation of EU sanctions and all the consequences we know. You white morning air, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, and you have set yourself the goal of this pension reform debate to eliminate the government. That is the real reason for your rejection! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's it! On the back of the population!]] They have converted the Thursday demonstrators into defensive professional demonstrators, even trying to strike people and primary students. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Where was that?]] They have instrumentalized them for one thing that students cannot understand. They are responsible for a national economic damage that goes into hundreds of millions of euros. They risk jobs in Austria with this measure. You do not work constructively, you refuse the talks at the negotiating table, my dear ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I am going – and this is an open confession – to the draft pension scheme a little too far. Although the rough edges could be cut off, there are still some tips where we have to auction, such as the combination of social security institutions. It must be made more quickly, it must be made more efficient. In the case of policy-making, a grinding system must be introduced, an effective grinding system, which also hurts. And there must be a guarantee for the lowest pensioners. Then the Freedom Party is in the boat! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: That's not even the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Wittmann) Look who's claping at you!]] One thing I must say to you, Mr Commissioner: You can't stretch your hands out with your fists! - You've demasked yourself with this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Return to the negotiating table, ladies and gentlemen, from the opposition! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Apparently the coalition partner!]] Let us discuss a sensible, honest future insurance of pensions! As a young Member of Parliament, who has only been in politics for five months, I wish that. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You can see that!]] I have set the goal that it must be possible to decide on such an important reform measure, which will affect all of us, in a four-party consensus. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What does the ÖVP say about this?]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Back to the start! Then it's okay!]] What happens if that doesn't work? – The next government will then bubble around again, there will be a flicking work again, and the people will be insecured again. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this draft budget, the Federal Government is relying on the largest tax reform in the Second Republic, so that work and performance in our country are again worthwhile. These are measures and objectives that we have also called for in many debates for many years. We are particularly concerned about the relief of small and medium-sized incomes. We have seen a great deal of risk to this principle in recent months. Taxable persons with a gross annual income of up to €14 500 will be exempt from taxes in future. [[Abg. Brosz: What about those who don't pay a tax now?]] In this way, some 200 000 Austrians, who still pay taxes today, will be able to keep every euro of their income tomorrow. This is a great relief from Austrian taxpayers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This budget provides for a targeted promotion of capital formation by halving the tax rate on profits not collected. Farms get more financial scope again. This strengthens the investment incentives that we need right now, in this difficult economic situation. We finally end the 13th. VAT prepayment, a relic of the SPÖ Finance Minister. We will not allow this 13. Sales tax prepayment in Austria celebrates its 10th anniversary. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Where the social democratic government policy can lead us, we can see from the example of Germany: low growth! Germany was once an economic locomotive, Germany is now the economic growth braker in Europe. There is a need for action and the danger that Germany may again expect a “blue letter” from Brussels this year. We want to save Austria. Red-green is not the answer to the problems of time. We want a policy that stimulates the economy in Austria, which secures more income for people in our country. I am convinced that the Federal Government can achieve these ambitious goals, and I wish the Federal Government every good in its implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4831	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4849	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! “Karl-Heinz! That was a brilliant speech!" – That’s from yesterday’s Stenographical Protocol. That's what President Dr. Khol said about Minister of Finance Grasser. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Yes, yes, it was! Really!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: He won't say that now!]] A ‘ brilliant speech. ’ I'm saying, maybe, brilliantly, in the face of reproach. Perhaps, because also to a brilliant – or say – one of an elegant mutilation is at least one prerequisite, namely that the simple home mind of the contact person is somewhat realistic. For example, you dare to count two and two together and then decide whether the +4 is or – 4 or zero depending on which sign the two have. In this respect, I do not think the terms of the Minister of Finance are brilliant, but rather insulting Members of this House, Mr President Khol. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I would like to prove this diagnosis – unfortunately – on the basis of two key points from the Minister of Finance's budget speech, namely on the basis of his statements on the so-called net tax relief and his statements on the alleged focus of education, science and research. In the budget speech issued by the Ministry of Finance, it is said – slightly shortened, I quote – that: "This first stage of the tax reform is... becoming a net relief of 500 million. Euro. ... These are substantial first steps. The discharge is coming! Let us inform the population! Extensive and together! These are important impulses to lift the mood.” What is my mood now, following this statement? – My mood will not be lifted if I have to discover, even by more or less detective research, that this net relief of €500 million in reality represents a burden of €200 million and cannot be a talk of a net relief at all. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Today I heard this from, I believe, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer. The same statement was made yesterday by Federal Chancellor Schüssel. There can be no mention of this at all – not of the tax measures and of the taxes as a whole! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Naiv, as I am – just two sentences to my personal way in this labyrinth –, naïve as I am, I first look into the budget accompanying law. In this, I must say, good data – at least in certain sub-areas – about the fiscal impact. That was not always the case, it can be emphasized positively once. However: The fiscal measures on the purely fiscal side – income tax, energy taxes and so on – are indicated in the explanations in effect with minus € 221 million in 2004. And I have to say, Depp,...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4928	Please, my colleague, I must protect you from yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4949	Thank you! – I say Naivling in my first opinion: Nice, fiscal measures minus 221 million, overcompensated by health insurance measures and so on. In the evening I look at this again and don't trust my eyes, count the numbers together again: It is not minus € 221 million in taxes. Have you noticed, Mr Molterer, that this is plus € 221 million in fiscal measures alone? Now I am not as brutal as apparently the Ministry of Finance itself, which has only exchanged the sign; a discharge of 221 million is actually a burden of 221 million. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] That's what I'm saying, that can happen to anyone, maybe just a print mistake. A problem arises, however, if the Minister of Finance believes that there are minus 221 million, although it is plus 221 million. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Personally, I am not as hard as the Ministry of Finance itself. For example, I would simply ignore the import taxes of €250 million – a unique effect, a pure liquidity effect – in 2004. I don't think that's what I'm gonna do. Let's get rid of this! However, we also leave the waste of the road use charge away, because it is horrified, it is – perhaps also horrified – by the truck toll, by road pricing. It's totally absurd to mention this. Even if you are so generous, the purely tax measures, the tax measures in the narrowest sense – those are essentially the wage and income tax measures or the energy taxes – a plus of €50 million in 2004 – are calculated by the Ministry of Finance itself. We are talking here about the 2003/2004 budget and not what might have some effect in 2012. If the Minister of Finance assumes a minus of €500 million, then he has to cumulate something if he even has an idea of what he says. For years and years, sometime maybe, yes, if you cumulate, but not now for the 2004 budget. That's not your own data, ladies and gentlemen! I agree that what the Ministry of Finance is presenting here is quite right. That's not where we're fighting for a million on or off. Let us say 50 million plus in purely fiscal measures, around 300 million plus in health insurance! That's good, ladies and gentlemen. On the so-called structural measures, which you used to talk about, I do not think anything about the drug measures. Increase in health insurance contributions: 300 billion. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: 300 “billions ”?]] - Around 300 billion, 317 if you want to know exactly. [[Calls:Millions]] 300 million one. Sorry! Millions, bad enough! – Minus of around €150 million in the corresponding contributions for workers over 60 and more than 56 respectively. We come to an amount of €200 million in 2004. And now I haven't lost a word about pension insurance. I will not do this in this speech today, but I will concentrate on the “normal” – under quotations – budgetary measures. No word for pension insurance! I have not yet taken into account the changes in self-maintenance, the increases in self-maintenance in health insurance, for the simple reason, because neither in the budget speech nor in the budget itself are figures to be found, because you do not know what you really want and can do in this regard. Let's see. What's the result now? Let us try to continue this outcome to 2005 when the next reform comes. I always try to learn something. It has been told us: minus 500, but in truth it is plus 200. That means: One takes the amount that is claimed, of which 40 percent – of 500 are the 200 – exchange the sign, and that is the real result. So: According to this invoice, it is €2.5 billion in 2005. Isn't it, Mr. Molterer? [[The speaker laughs at this sentence.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: You have to laugh yourself!]] 40 percent is € 1 billion. Then the signs are exchanged. So 1 billion plus in 2005 is what the Minister of Finance really means. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Of course, with tonguenue in check, that's clear, but this kind of handling of data is meant to us today. I'm gonna have to send you the following: In principle, I do not find the structural reform of taxes and taxes wrong. On the contrary! You can certainly talk about it. Taxation on workers' and employers' work is, in turn, a reduction in taxes on non-renewable resources, which is in principle the right way. We would have done something different in detail, but we could have talked about it. But you can't do that when you first get from the Minister of Finance – what does it say? – “grassed”, that is, when the nose is carried around, when it has held us to shame. What are you doing? Is that brilliant? If you use data that diametrically contradicts the budgetary truth, that's brilliant? – In order to characterise this, I already have words, but these words have an unfortunate similarity with those for which a Member of Parliament has received a call for order yesterday. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But at least as bad is what we find in the field of research and development, education and science. Mr Gusenbauer has already suggested that I should like to roll it out now if you want to. At first I was really impressed by what the Minister of Finance said, namely: clear priorities for the future area of education and science, €8.2 billion in 2003, €9 billion in 2004. - That's where you think: Whom! 800 million € plus! Finally! So often disappointed, but now at last! Then you look at the table section of the budget speech under “functional breakdown of expenditure” and you think: Wow! The increase from 2003 to 2004 is even more than €800 million! You're wondering if that's already shaking the absorption capacity of the sector. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Naiv, I can only say! Then go a bit into the detail, let your colleagues who know each other help you, look at title 149 and see: € 734 million on the expenditure side and new on the revenue side, in addition. - I'll be right back. In fact, in 2004 the Unis received an amount almost equal to that of 2002, which is slightly higher than that of 2002. However, it must be taken into account that the universities now have to receive some 150 million study contributions and actually receive at least this amount more, so that they now have to be concluded: On the contrary, public funds were substituted by the study contributions rather than increased as promised at the time. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I now ask you, Mr President, and all the other economic operators or those who are half familiar with this area, as opposed to me: How do you judge simple measures to extend the balance sheet if they are interpreted in a way that Minister of Finance has done yesterday? Consider the following example: An entrepreneur, a merchant, finds he has 1 million € too little in the cash desk or on the bank. It goes to the bank, takes up a loan and gets the million, now has it on its bank account, so to speak, left in the balance sheet, and on the right of course stands the 1 million additional liabilities. His wealth doesn't change. Everyone knows. Its net potential position is completely unchanged. Then this entrepreneur, this merchant, goes here and claims – let's just take that once! – he'll be worth € 1 million better than before. He uses only the left side of his balance sheet, the active page. [[Abg. Oellinger: This is a bookkeeping scandal, we heard yesterday!]] If this merchant – and you will agree with me, Mr. Stummvoll – is acting this way against others, he is urgently suspected of fraud. If he believes it himself, how would you call it? As a brilliant? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I have to add: I don't know any of these entrepreneurs, but I probably know a finance minister who makes such a difference to us. It turns 734 million € to the left, on the expenditure side, and at the same time it rebooks 734 million € on the revenue side, in addition. In total, nothing changes. – First step. Second step: Then he looks only at the expenditure page, on the left side, and says: Wow, 734 million € plus! So much expenditure has simply increased visually. He's right! But he does not say – third step – that the same amount appears on the right side by a purely rebooking measure, so that in the sum there is no change. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: This is a scandal!]] [[Abg. May. Posch: This is an artist!]] This kind of future security, this kind of priority setting, this kind of superpriority setting, this interpretation, that you call brilliant?- Oh, my God! I have to say: The process as such, the budgetary procedure as such is perfectly correct. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] This is related – but I do not want to stop you from doing so – to the disseminating of universities. That's perfectly correct. But the interpretation of the Minister of Finance, then the interpretation of the Chancellor of the German Chancellor Schüssel yesterday and that of Mr Molterer today, I think - I can't remember exactly now - that's a joke! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The universities do not get any more. Of these € 800 million additional € 734 million are non-existent. It is, I think, a sense for Members of this House to have to find out for themselves what is hidden behind such figures. It's not a brilliant expression, it's an insanity! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I mean, in the light of these deceptions, which I can only call scandalous, of course, we are trying to address all the other particulars, whether it be data, whether it be content statements, with one, let us say, reasonable scepticism. I don't want to do that now, I don't have time to do it either. But the two things alone – I haven't experienced that in a budget speech so far! I do not want to be upset and to say what could still be criticised from the past and yesterday, but this kind of procedure is absolutely unacceptable. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] A Member of Parliament is not a detective, he is not paid to do detective little work to find out whether what the Minister or the Minister has just said corresponds to the truth, is half the truth, or is the smooth untruth. We will not be paid for this, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer. [[New appeal to the Greens and SPÖs.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: We won't buy you the budget!]] Now very briefly to the growth impact of the budget: In my opinion, the 2003 budget is slightly expansive, which is therefore correct in this economic development. Unfortunately, it is not possible to say this for the year 2004. This will have a slightly Contractive effect, in particular due to the increases in taxes, and given the current economic situation – admittedly, it will last half a year – this is very difficult. We would find it more correct, given the risks there – yesterday we heard many things about the risks and how to deal with them – a part of the tax relief in 2005 – let's assume it's true! – prefer to 2004 in view of this economic situation. In this context, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties: If I hear about the labour market data and the trade surplus and the current account surplus ten more times, I will be quite grand. We all know that the number of people employed in the labour market is relatively small, not to say very little. They always have to say how much of the increase is made up of the caregivers or the children's pensioners, how much of them are part-time employed, how much less busy and so on. If you're always just saying that this has grown by 10,000 or 30,000, I have to tell you: That does not say anything about the development on the labour market! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] As far as the current account and the trade surplus are concerned, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, I must say: If you are only half interested in economics, you will notice: This is a typical phenomenon for... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm not an expert. I don't do that. It's a triviality. This is a typical... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Mr President, you know that better than I do! This is a typical characteristic of countries that are economically, growth-oriented about a lot worse than others. They achieve a current account surplus or trade surplus. At that time, in the 1970s or sometime later, we had exactly the opposite problem. You will be able to remember it, Mr. stupid! At that time we introduced the third rate of VAT, the so-called 'luxury rate', in order to deal with the reverse problem: the surplus of imports in view of the precisely reverse economic situation. So, please, these are not merits, this trade balance sheet, this current account surplus is rather a reference to the failure of the government. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's cute! That's poor!]] To distribute, I'm almost going to be silent, because I'm afraid I only have a minute's speaking time. We welcome the tax exemption up to €14 000 a year, but I would also like to point out one point, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties: The lower levels of income meet They are not positive, because they do not pay any wage and income tax anyway, but the benefit is concentrated on income earners in the amount of approximately €900 to €1 100 per month. The persons involved in the lowest incomes, including many pensioners, minimum pensioners, are very likely to be affected by increased health insurance contributions and energy taxation measures. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, we would urgently call on Greens to benefit the people of the lowest income through measures in the area of so-called negative wage and income tax. I believe that with an amount of around €200 million, we can move very much in favour of the people involved in the lowest incomes, which according to your proposals are net taxed rather than relieved. [[Abg. Dr Fassleven: The President has said that you must be protected from yourself! That's right!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] My final sentence, Mr President, is a postal script: The Israeli cultural community in Austria has been facing serious financial problems for years now, and I believe that it is a good thing for the Republic to finally solve this question in agreement; it is not about a lot of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5242	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Our agreement on speaking time provides for 12 minutes in this case. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5263	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that, as chairman of this Federal Government, I can present to you nine weeks after our fishing observation the budgets for 2003 and 2004 as well as a long-term pension reform, a sustainable reform of the health insurance companies and a first important step towards discharge. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, there are some massive impulses for the families. Consider that this year alone we are providing 340 million € or 5 billion more Schilling for the Austrian families, parents and children, and that is what we are proud of together, ladies and gentlemen! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have provided massive training impulses in this budget. There will be an 18-month training programme for 5 000 unemployed young people between the ages of 19 and 25. This is also important at this time. [[Abg. Reheis: Electoral address!]] That's not an election speech, but that's the presentation of living practice, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Reheis: This is an election speech!]] Of course, it is an absolute priority that we spend 50 percent more on rail and road than in 1999 in the area of infrastructure – these figures have not been demented by the opposition spokespersons. This is a particular focus in the preparation for EU enlargement for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, education and research are a special focus. Now, however, allow me to say a few points about opposition criticism. First of all, I come to the complaint of Alfred Gusenbauer that we would make deficits. – Right, we are going at a difficult time when it would be wrong to deteriorate the economic situation through austerity measures, a rather expansive course, as Professor Van der Bellen has rightly said. [[fierce calls to the SPÖ]] Only: Our deficits of around 1.5 percent are miles below all the deficits that social democratic chancellors or finance ministers have ever made. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can tell you the numbers here: In the first five years Bruno Kreisky has still lived on the good substance of the politics of the ÖVP Chancellors and the ÖVP Finance Minister, but since 1976, social-democratic chancellors and finance ministers have always deficitd between 2 and 5 percent. [[Recent fierce calls to the SPÖ]] On the other hand, what Karl-Heinz Grasser presented here is brilliant, Professor Van der Bellen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another thing: I am very excited about the detailed discussion within the framework of the budget. As far as I understand it, you criticize the pension reform: They want to move everything in this area. I have not heard a proposal to what extent you want to fix the health insurance deficits. I am convinced that with each budget chapter you will criticize the use of too little money, but you are not afraid to stand here and say that the deficit is too high. This “stone of the wise ones, ” please explain in peace and in fact how you want to do this: Criticise deficits and demand more and more! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now to the university, Mr. Professor: If you read exactly the documents and if you will discuss everything in peace with us during the detailed discussions, you will expect that in Austria there has never been as much spent on education as in these years. [[Abg. Reheis: No one believes this!]] They will insist that even after disseminating, the increase will be almost 2 billion schilling for the universities. I think you should agree on that. Please, Professor, if you are producing and saying that there is a breakdown and the whole thing is a plus-minus business or practically nothing but a balance sheet extension, I have to say: This is simply not true, because the big difference is that universities have the full responsibility, control and sovereignty to spend money that can no longer be shortened by the Minister of Finance. That is the “wit” with it! That is the charm of this exclusion, and that is why it is important, Professor! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would not mind if it were the first dissemination we made in these three years, but it is, Mr Professor, the fortyth dispensation – and that you are only now insisting that the effect is that the distributed operation can then have the entire money free, that is new to me, but that is probably also a contribution to the matter in this House! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the labour market is concerned – even if you are becoming grotesque; I do not want to make you grand, you know, I appreciate you very much, but even if you become grand again, I must point out, Professor: What else is the crucial criterion for the quality of the labour market than the statistics, as the number of those people who have work in Austria?- Oh, my God! This is Herbert Haupt and me important – and not any virtual statistics! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, you know that minor employees do not appear in labour market statistics, and of course you know that the present and child dependants are publicly identified, and of course you know that we have 38 000 more people in employment today compared to the previous year. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You don't believe that yourself!]] And if you calculate all karenz payers and present servants, it's still around 8,000 more! And we are proud of that together, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The big difference to the red-green coalition in Germany is that we in Austria on 1st. In May, on the day of work, there was record employment and the number of unemployed remained the same, while Germany had more 470 000 unemployed. Now you will no longer be great, Professor, if I say: Together, we can be proud that we stand here better than other countries with which we have a very strong trade and therefore we are not unaffected by their situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Because of a lack of time, I will say little about the pension reform today, but still mention that the mysterious pension concept of the ÖGB has now appeared. It was sent by the president of the Upper Austrian ÖGB to our clubman Willi Molterer, and of course it is not uninteresting to look at how this mysterious concept, which everyone is talking about, looks like. I can tell you here: There is a uniform pension system – that is what we all want! [[Abg. Oillinger: But you don't do it!]] I have invited you, Mr Vergebnitsch: Work with us so that we can present such a uniform concept in autumn! This is important and is out of dispute for me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The second point is given here: Reform of the distribution of the federal contribution, because it is going down anyway, even without reform. – So: If this is the concept of the Trade Union Confederation that, contrary to the reality that every year the federal contribution increases in absolute numbers, can be read in the budget, nothing has to be done at all, then I wonder. The third point is: Harmonisation of contribution rates – that is, of course, increases in contribution. Further: Widen the funding base of pensions – that is, of course, again increases in contributions. Further: Taking into account the total value added – that is, value added tax, which was still rejected by the Advisory Council or all the social partners in 1991. Then it is said in the back that private pension schemes are expensive and insecure. One polemizes against the second and third pillars of pension provision. – This is the alternative concept. Now I'm telling you quite openly: Then, hopefully, the population knows why it is important that we now decide together on a sustainable, meaningful and socially balanced reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I very much appreciate you, and I appreciate you as a politician who says he is clear and open, but who at the same time also maintains a style. I therefore ask you to insist on it, especially in these difficult days... – I try it too! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Excuse me, you can tell me a lot, but I'm trying very hard to get a decent, neat style of dealing with each other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Where? Where?]] I call you three short examples, where I really ask you to assert your influence that this should not happen. I have here a leaflet of the local staff, on which reads: If the Federal Government goes through its intentions, food will get worse in hospitals and nursing homes, the quality of all health care is at stake. – Please, Mr President, try to assert your influence that this fright will cease! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Second example: I have here a letter from the Upper Austrian President of the ÖGB and Chairman of the Chamber of Workers – I say this so that you do not believe that it was invented by me; by the way, this letter went to all the mayors – in which it says: The removal of emergency aid is not only expensive for unemployed people, but will also plunge many communities into the financial chaos. Help prevent the removal of emergency aid! Mr President of the Council! It is true – and I am looking for you to keep exactly the style that we have been used to – and this is so in the government programme that we, together with the countries, are considering transferring the area of responsibility regarding the current emergency aid from the AMS to the countries and thus actually allowing for a common payout and examination. [[ongoing calls to the SPÖ]] Help you finish this bad style of some of your functionaries! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Last point: A weekly newspaper says that now the companies of ministers who belong to this government are to be visited by Members of our political groups and friends who give us their expertise, their advice. Among other things, Böhler-Uddeholm and other companies are listed. I would like to ask you, Mr President, to do something about it, because this is not a style that we are allowed to allow to enter. We must work together, and I will also make my contribution to that. It must not be pressured by a freely elected Member of the National Council! No minister, whose family – he himself is not allowed to work in the company at all – must be put under pressure from the company! It is not a matter of giving advisers to a democratically elected government! I beg you, with all the seriousness: Help yourself that this style won't be real! It would be absolutely necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One last sentence: In fact, Gerhard Schröder has the same problems in Germany. It's right: Reforms are necessary! The difference is the: There is a responsible opposition there that is ready to cooperate. I'm looking for you: Help you with such a responsible work for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5578	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5596	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! I would like to take a very brief look at the previous debate and stress as extremely positive that both opposition leaders, both Dr. Gusenbauer and Professor Van der Bellen, had a position in their speech where they meant: We've learned! [[Abg. Brosz: We learned that the budget is falsified!]] Professor Van der Bellen! I really think it's human sympathy when you admit that, but Your problem will be – and this also applies to Mr Gusenbauer – that you cannot put what you are learning here into government responsibility in the foreseeable future, because the German Chancellor's place is for the Master and not for the apprentice, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me now come to this double budget in 2003/2004. [[Abg. Brosz: You should talk about your pension!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's an old experience: The weaker your arguments, the louder your calls! Remember that! Find better arguments, then you don't need such loud calls! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Brosz: You have a double board!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But now back to the double budget. This 2003/2004 budget is first of all a budget of stability, it is a budget of responsibility, it is a budget of future design. [[Abg. Oillinger: Speak to the pensions!]] This federal government does not regard politics as a daily hack, but as a future design, as a responsibility for the future. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: How much pensions do you receive? Three pensions!]] This government would have a much easier life if it did not make these reforms, but the next government would probably face the collapse of the pension system. This is a living responsibility for the future, ladies and gentlemen. That is exactly the difference between government and opposition. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say very clearly: I believe that the valuable of this double budget is, in my view, that these budgets are not erratically isolated in the landscape, but are seamlessly integrated into a strategy with the aim of: [[Abg. Oellinger: I think this is valuable from your point of view!]] Where is Austria to stand 2010? This government is the first government to think beyond legislative periods and the aim of the Federal Chancellor: We want to become Top 3 in Europe!, is a long-term strategic orientation. There are three strategic objectives of economic policy: First: Stability in the government budget. – The zero deficit is – and we have always said that – the start of a balanced budget policy over the economic cycle. It would be absurd to say: Every year, exactly zero commas must come out under the line – at the federal budget, at the nine national budgets and at well over 1,000 municipal budgets! It is about stability, considering the economic cycle. This budget is a contribution to achieving the strategic objective, i.e. stability in the state budget. Second objective: Investment in the future. We will continue to discuss in great detail, Mr Van der Bellen, the figures you are questioning during the budgetary deliberations. Only: I ask for understanding, but I believe that the figures compiled by the experts of the Ministry of Finance are, of course, more than your figures, since you yourself have said you are not an expert. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: These are the figures of the Ministry of Finance!]] I believe the expert in the department more than your information. It cannot be disputed if you draw a comparison between 1999 – the old government – and the 2004 budget. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Why not 1951?]] We have investments in the future, with enormous increases. Mr President, you can still smile so much: It is an increase if you spent €7.5 billion on education and science in 1999 and spend €9 billion next year. That's an increase of 20 percent! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: No! He still didn't understand!]] It is a difference, Mr Van der Bellen, whether I am in favour of the high-level road network – which is also very important to me as a member of my constituency – as in 1999 I will use € 650 million or the double, namely € 1.3 billion. It is a difference whether I am for research and development – and this is ultimately the future of an economic location: Innovation, research, development, technology – €1.2 billion as in 1999 or €1.6 billion as now. This is an increase of 35 percent. Mr Van der Bellen! We may be able to argue about whether it is 35 or only 33 per cent, but these are enormous increases in the future of this country, and I think this should be highlighted in this budget of future design and responsibility for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third objective: discharge of citizens and businesses. Mr Van der Bellen! So it should not be easy to do so and point to an error in the calculation in the supplements if measures are put in place here, by which 200 000 taxpayers – I repeat: [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: The statements are the problem!]] 200 000 taxpayers! – will be excluded from the tax obligation. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: I'm for it anyway!]] This will take a step – it will still be improved in the context of the budget consultation – that will strengthen the equity of small and medium-sized enterprises. This will make the economic location more attractive, and you know, economic location means jobs, income opportunities and social security. To all these three objectives, this Federal Government is committed, and it has the support of the majority of this House. Ladies and gentlemen! We always say the comparison makes us sure: Austria is now better off than in 1999. If we look at the international rankings today, we note: We are number 1 worldwide in terms of quality of life, number 1, in terms of medical care, and number 1 worldwide in the field of safety. We are also number 1 in the question of family kindness worldwide. As far as economic power is concerned, we have in the three years of this government of the 18th century. ==References== Place pre-worked. In the EU, we are third in terms of the development of consumer prices and third in terms of labour market data. Mr Van der Bellen, I must honestly say that I was disappointed how you simply erased the labour market data from the table. The fact that we have more than 90 000 jobs today than in 1999 cannot be done with a manual movement, even if you are a professor of higher education. We are talking about jobs for the people of this country, and we cannot, as it were, wipe away economic theory with a hand movement, Mr Van der Bellen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Because I see it differently!]] That we're not just on the 1st. The employment record of 3 166 000 people mentioned by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany on May 3, but above all in the sensitive category of more than 55-year-olds, we had more than 26 000 employees than in 1999, which is ultimately also a success for this Federal Government, although I am one of those who say: If we are talking about economic success here, we have to say: These are primarily the successes of the working people in this country. This government sets the framework for the fair chance of finding jobs, income opportunities and social security in this country. And that should be recognized, with all criticism of the opposition! These are just strategic goals where I am glad that this country is in good hands with this government. We stand there better than in 1999. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer holds up a document on which says: “The most expensive speaker. ”]] Let me also say one thing: We will be very intensively discussing this double budget in the budget committee and in the financial committee in the coming weeks. As representative of a government party and as chairman of the financial committee, I say to you: We are prepared, if there are constructive proposals from the opposition, to respond. But just to explain, my colleague, how it is not possible, that is simply too little for a parliamentary discussion. [[Abg. Krainer: The most expensive speaker!]] Mr President, I should like to comment on what has been said. You are saying that I am here because I was the Member who, as the Secretary of State for Finance, exercised his mandate free of charge. I have exercised my mandate as Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce free of charge, and I will do so for a third time from 1. ==References====External links== Let me give you an example, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5878	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5897	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Bundeskanzler, you said a few minutes ago that it was not right for emergency aid to be transferred to social assistance. I quote: “Transfer of emergency aid into a new social assistance programme” – your government programme 2002/2003. But you also have to read the small print again and again, as with many things you put on the table here today and put them to the discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Social assistance new!]] What does “social assistance-new” mean? – In reality, this means that people get out of labour market management and no longer receive measures from this area. This means that there are rules against children, and that means that your own car can be used for payment. Her head of state Schausberger explained a few weeks ago that this would cost the state of Salzburg 16 million €. He demands a regress from the federal government. I say to you: If you reduce pensions, then the federal government should replace this failure just as much as the amount demanded by the head of state Schausberger when it comes to social assistance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Häupl!]] We have the budget speech to discuss today. It would be attractive to debate the budget in a comprehensive way. The fact is, however, that for the first time in the history of this Republic, 91 laws are included as budget accompanying laws in a budget law, which usually have the effect of discussing the various measures for years. And if you tell me, Mr. Finanzminister – you not only quoted Franz Olah yesterday, but also Anton Benya yesterday – under Anton Benya and Franz Olah there would not have been that, then I will answer you: You're right! You are right because neither under Franz Olah nor under Anton Benya there was such a government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A pension right for all, i.e. the harmonisation of different systems in Austria, must be our objective. We are going to start the constructive dialogue with the trade union. - Do you know who said that? The Minister of Finance sitting behind me in March 2001. And what has happened here to a comprehensive pension reform?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen! Look at the Internet pages of your own parties! Do you find there any proposal for a comprehensive pension reform? – You will find something that is a pension reduction and called “pension insurance”, but no proposals for a comprehensive pension reform, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Where are your concepts?]] It is about promoting the emancipation of the citizen, involving in policy formulation and implementation and promoting their active cooperation in solving our common problems. – The same Minister of Finance in 2001. And if then citizens get involved in the discussion, we hear from this government: We don't keep the pressure on the road! – It’s not a mob, it’s an uproar, it’s your voters – alongside other people – who want to express their opinion! Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: “Mob” is your expression!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Professor Strasser!]] Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, a professor may well have an opinion. The fact is, we don't go against a government. Nor do we oppose the legislative monopoly of this House. But we will not let ourselves be taken, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to questions of the existence of the working population as a whole – not only workers, but also employers are affected by pension cuts – as a trade union that we are fighting to improve working and income conditions, even for those whose protection in old age is equally important to their existence. Do not make a “political strike” of it when it is really about cuts in pensions! You always use this diction again and again – not we! We keep clear and clear that we are for the income security of the boys, including in their future pension – and not for a reduction! Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's why you fight the schools! With the seven-year-olds you start!]] They from the government parties encounter some sounds. – I can only say: These sounds are everywhere! They accuse someone when he speaks of “pension robbery. ” If you want to take away 10 or 15 percent of the money available there, talk about a savings deposit in case of a robbery – or is this a depriving of the savings bank, my very dear ladies and gentlemen? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Lively contradiction with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Take back this comparison! It's a horrendous thing! Take back this comparison! A pension insurance to compare with a bank robbery, that's the lowest level! Primitive!]] [[Further ongoing calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner! ...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6101	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say the following: (Parliament adopted the legislative Please be aware that you do not compare a law decision with what you presented in your example, so that there are no misunderstandings and we can continue this discussion properly!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6122	Mr President. I have not spoken about the draft law clearly and clearly – as far as I can remember at least my words. [[Objection to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you criticise the language by the government parties, you should also consider the comparison as admissible. But I am now referring to this draft law. [[New calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, if you are here and are constantly blaming the trade unions... [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not a withdrawal!]] [[Abg. Lentsch: That was no clarification!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's not acceptable!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We do not allow such comparisons!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This does not make the argument better! I said clearly and clearly: If You do not allow such comparisons, then sit down with us at a table and we will work out a really fair pension scheme! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: For business treatment!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! You have been here more often and have said that it was you who have made sure that the most serious difficulties were removed from the present draft law, i.e. from this government proposal. – But you must already like the following question: Who has developed this bill? Wasn't it Vice Chancellor's head, your party officer, who brought this in? [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Wasn't it your party officer who brought this in?- Oh, my God! – That’s why I mean: Don't boast, but look for the dialogue! [[The speaker places a table with the title “Treatment and Truth” on the speaker’s desk. The question “Why, do you think, is this woman aged overnight by two years? ” is printed in red across the text.]] You, dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, have accused us, ÖGB experts, in the context of the discussion on the introduction of the e-card, of being “modern fairy tales” when they cited an example. – Strangely, it is that your answer to this one example leads to the 35-year-old woman mentioned here being 37 years old at once over the night. Such comparisons, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, do not give evidence of seriosity when it comes to obvious examples. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Again today, the question was asked by you: What are the proposals of the trade unions? – For this, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and the liberals: We have already presented our proposals to the Black and Blue Federal Government in Memorandum 2000 and we have already proposed that we put ourselves together at a table to find the best possible solution. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, do not constantly accuse us of preventing, delaying or watering down! – We want to negotiate, we want improvements – and above all a corresponding harmonisation of pension systems! Take the call from the social partners seriously! Consider this your approach as an idea – and return it so that the social partners, together with all the parties present here, can find an appropriate and acceptable solution! [[Abg. Scheibner: Take back the comparison! Put your strikes back!]] Take seriously the statements made by the social partners, the Church and the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who today has made them. Let us together look for better solutions – instead of always delivering us with word fights that do not lead to any improvement for the people of our country in the matter itself!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6300	Ladies and gentlemen! Such a debate on such a delicate matter can be very difficult and often very difficult to hold in reasonable forms. I therefore note that everyone has only a linguistic comparison of one – even so controversial! – Law projects with an attack are absolutely unacceptable and I strongly reject them! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Mr Molterer spoke on business, which can only be given after the end of a debate. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6338	Mr President, I would like to thank you for this clarification, a clarification which Mr President Vergestnich unfortunately did not make. I would like to thank you, Mr President Fischer, on behalf of the House for correcting this derailment.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6373	Mr Molterer, there is the old Usus that we are not commenting on the President's attempts to make the matter as good as it is, either with praise or with blame. Mr Scheibner also spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6395	Mr President, you said you should not comment on this. . However, we can make proposals here, and I therefore make the request – even in terms of what statements have already been made today – for Members of this comparison, namely that he has compared a draft law, which we are discussing here in the democratic framework, with a criminal act, with a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6445	Deputies! I have acted in the way I believe I can best account for it – and I want to leave it. [[Abg. Scheibner: For “pockets” you get an order call and...!]] Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6474	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I actually wanted to save you from becoming personal. But I take what you said seriously. They meant: We harmonise pension systems! [[The speaker put a table on the speaker’s desk, which reads: “ÖGB President Verzellnitsch Pension 10 000 euros per month – average earnings of a trader 1 000 euros per month”.]] Your pension, Mr Vergestnitsch, will be €10 000 per month. [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] – The income of a trader is 1 000 €. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I take this very seriously too! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] You, Mr President Vergestnich, have said that you want a security of living for poor people. - Me too, but: Let's go together and change the political pensions! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This statement of the “typical social climate in Austria” is not only that talk, but it is indeed a special value, something that has ultimately also led to the fact that there is still prosperity in Austria, while in our neighbouring countries there are already very serious difficulties both in the labour market and in the economic sector. I therefore believe that it is not excessive to say that this typical social climate of Austria, this consensus climate, is a cornerstone of Austrian politics. – I do not know if you are aware of the SPÖ – you, Mr President Verzetznich, and others in your party – that, with your process of the past weeks and days, you are helping to dispel this Austrian consensus climate! General strike has never existed in Austria! [[Abg. To be sure, what general strike are you talking about, Mrs. Colleague?]] With this general strike – that is what journalists have written – and with the call for further strikes you have already begun to destroy this consensus policy in Austria, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Abg. Grade: Stay with the truth!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Grade: If you sit in the glass house, don't even throw pebbles!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Look at the professional groups you all asked to strike! And you have also announced who will strike everyone in the next days, my dear Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Abg. Grade: Stay with the truth!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Don't harm it now! Bringing this consensus climate in Austria But you are also in danger with such statements and statements as they have just been made by you today, Mr Vergestnitsch! [[Abg. He who sits in the glass house should not throw stones!]] This kind of radicality is simply not in place here, Mr Deputies, but here in Parliament we should discuss. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Whether it is a destruction of the political climate in the interests of Austria, in the interest of the Austrians, you will have to answer that! And you will bear the responsibility for this your way of doing, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖGB! I actually have the impression that you are being led by the opposition parties – unfortunately God!, I must say – this debate just as you did in yesterday's debate on the urgent request: in an unprecedented way of uncertainty and polemization! We've seen: The main purpose of yesterday's applicant was to undermine all the government's projects by misinformation and misinformation! Mrs Silhavy, for example, has yesterday – and all this is serious! – claims that emergency aid will be abolished. Today, on the other hand, we have heard that emergency aid is only transferred to social assistance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Maier.]] So don't talk about an abolition! Mr Cap, in connection with the interception hunters, even went up yesterday in order to accuse the government of “smart business”, air traffic. – There is really no more serious suspicions than the government to succulently succulent, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] But all of this is on your line of misinformation! You just want to misinformation from the SPÖ, want to insure! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Your misinformation goes even so far – which must almost be described as ridiculous – that Mr Gusenbauer has today brought quotations from Franz Olah, but Anton Benya is ascribed to the Gusenbauer! – I do not know, Mr Gusenbauer: Do you want to distance yourself from Olah? Was that the purpose? Or is all of this really on your line: No matter what, it just has to be wrong!, then is it all right for you?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, should stop this kind of discussion, just as the debate on the street! [[Abg. May. Trunk: Jörg Haider!]] In a parliamentary democracy, the place of debate is not the road, it is Parliament! Mr. Jörg Haider does not go to the street to demonstrate, but he leads the discussions where they belong. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I really didn't want to provoke you today, but ask you to... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reheat]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] You will react completely nervously – I would almost say hysterically, if this were not to pour oil into the fire again – if you keep the truth before you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Today I wanted to address the request or question to you why the opposition cannot recognise the positive in government work. Why is that so? – But that is not at all true! [[Abg. Reheis: Because there is nothing positive!]] Despite difficult economic conditions worldwide, Austria has been able to reduce unemployment in recent years. Austria has the lowest unemployment rate in the EU! That's something, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is an employment record in Austria: 3 155 000 people are at work with us! It's a record! In relation to the previous year and this year, the number of jobs has been increased by 38 000. Of course you should also present your criticism and your concerns. But you should also recognize... – I guess I can say that! [[Abg. Mandak: Thank you! Thank you for granting us this!]] Or have you ever seen it?- Oh, my God! You should also recognize what is going on in Austria in a positive way. After all, it is all the workers, all the employers and all the Austrians who are involved in the fact that there is a certain wealth in Austria that unemployment is not as disastrous as it is in our neighbouring countries. [[Abg. Silhavy: But you want to take the wealth of man!]] The government has created the conditions for this to be so good in Austria, and we must recognise that – including you from the opposition, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Mandak: Social democratic governments have also created prosperity! Thank the Social Democrats!]] Finally, “your” employees and “your” entrepreneurs are also involved when it comes to increasing the prosperity and security of Austria. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, can you not agree with all these positive aspects here in Parliament?- Oh, my God! It's just not everything to defuse as you do from the SPÖ! They always say: Everything's bad, we're doing everything different! – Actually, it would be different. Look She only went to Germany: There, the red and green government of Schröder has been fighting a hopeless fight against unemployment, against the economic flea, and it cannot accomplish anything and nothing! Look at Germany – and then see how it is here with us in Austria! Then you'll see: The comparison makes us sure! In Austria we have – thank God! – not to fight with these problems. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Why do you want? Do you, for example, not recognize this success? – Austria will also be below the Maastricht criteria in the years 2003/2004, as the budget deficit has reached. Germany and France have already received the “blue letter” from the EU Commission, or are about to do so, and are also threatened with criminal sanctions. – This can be seen as positive for Austria, which we have saved ourselves through our budgetary policy! In Germany, for example, every tenth is unemployed! A terrible situation! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] And, as I said, The red-green government in Germany is unable to bring about a reduction in the high unemployment rate – quite the contrary! Mrs Silhavy, what do you say about this? – The red and green government in Germany even wants to pay the interest of savings funds under the social security obligation! – So you go that far on the part of the red-green government in Germany to get revenue! Again: Austria has achieved a really good success with the third lowest unemployment rate in the EU! I was surprised yesterday at what I heard here when Mr Finanzminister gave his budget speech. From SPÖ-side one could hear: “bla-bla!”, roanish laughter, et cetera. I really wondered about that! What was there to laugh at, what was there to say when Mr Finanzminister said, for example, that there is a surplus in terms of the current account, for the first time since 1990?- Oh, my God! That's a positive thing! There you don’t need to laugh or call “bla-bla!” I really have the impression that everything in which you can interpret anything negative in is being cheered up by you. You want to make Austria bad, and you want to make this government bad! [[Abg. Mandak: That's an assumption from you!]] You're looking forward to all the bad news – and you can't exaggerate enough. I'd like to tell you something: These fears deserve...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6800	Please put to the end, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6816	This fear has not deserved the people in Austria! - That was the closing point. You should have waited, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6846	The next speaker is Mr Kogler. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6864	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As a well-known Member, it is almost impossible to give an objective speech on the budget. If you look at the statements made yesterday by the Minister of Finance, together with the additions of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany today, you can only say: You don't make it easy for you to do it! First of all, I have to say – although this would actually be a case for my colleague Green Forest – that after the “forgone virus”, which obviously took place on the government’s ÖVP half, the “Las Vegas virus” is now added. What does that mean? – You, Federal Chancellor, pretend that you were not in the government all those years before – and talk about “Finance Ministers of the SPÖ” and “Federal Chancellors of the SPÖ”. There is obviously no one at all on the government bank who was living with this increase in debt, which you are now constantly criticizing so much – I am not doing this in this form; that is your “coffee”! There is no one to answer this question as much as you do. That's why I just don't think it's serious how you always make yourself here and wipe over everything. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But much worse is this “Las-Vegas-Mentality”, which has kept in here. Obviously, the Minister of Finance has already infected you. The budget speech yesterday was again the attempt of a typical Grasser show. Was it a supposed or a real budget speech? I would rather write on “adequate” because it had nothing to do with the 2003 and 2004 budgets. It can only have been an actual one if he has spoken of another budget, perhaps of that one in Las Vegas, where scams and swindler tricks are definitely appreciated on the open stage. – This is your concept, and it is really unbearable – Mr Van der Bellen mentioned it – how numbers are tricked here. Unfortunately, you have to hold that in the first place. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ledolter: The comparisons are unbearable!]] Mr President, you should try to get some information. It is an old tradition in Austria – and we are breaking with many traditions! – that the representatives of the government parties always do what the party headquarters say, and that is synchronized with the respective government group, but you should assume your responsibility as an orderly and read a little – first read, then think and then talk and call. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] First of all, a short time for pension reform. None of the Greens – I am sure not – will doubt that we should and must make changes in early pensions. The question is just how! As you suggest, it has a negative impact on the labour market. We have another proposal, which is just such that labour market data are not affected negatively. – That’s, we believe, the better way. It may be that the other one is a little cheaper for the budget. Social policy, social policy and, I say, economic policy would be more reasonable. They only increase unemployment, and that without need. And that's the accusation! – First minute in this matter; we have another proposal. The problem, however, is – and the Minister of Finance has done this all the time, even yesterday – that one is surprised that there are strikes. So it's not that way, gentlemen on the government bank: that you first announce the quoted consensus democracy with intention and start-up and with force – that can still be done, that's just another political model in practice – and then you're surprised – there's no longer much of the way from sacred to holy, just as today's stage has been described – that there are strikes, and then you still want to discredit or even criminalize these strikes. It can't go that far! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It is simple and touching to try after the cabinet bowl I, after the attempt – thank God not everything has succeeded, thanks to the opposition! – add to the authoritarian turn in the social policy field an economic and social policy area, at least as far as decision-making is concerned. Either – or, everything at once you can't have! That is why I would call on these – I would almost say – criminalisations of the strike movement to take a serious distance again. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What about criminalising legislation?]] Let us stay short of unemployment, and with this, Mr Molterer, I am concerned that the government can also be praised for something. It is true that unemployment rates in Austria are relatively low compared to other countries. This is not only the merit of this federal government, but also a long tradition of economic and social policy in Austria. It may also have something to do with the fact that we have too many early pensioners, as you say. You have to count the individual posts together. In any case, it should be: In changing the unemployment rate – and this is crucial – in the increase in the number of unemployed as measured by the employees, we have been on a massive track in Austria since 2000. And that's not soothing. This has something to do with the fact that economic growth in Austria has remained behind European development since 1998, 1999, but massively since 2000; if we already want to quote the EU and global data. - That's how it looks, okay. I do not only blame or only a smaller part of this federal government, we are finally in international competition. But it is not up to you to say goodbye to the national scope of economic policy with reference to these circumstances. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This is the next shame in this story. They say: We need nothing to do, we should not do anything, we are waiting for the upswing, and then we can eventually reduce taxes. - That's your concept. We say: That's wrong! If there is already a room for tax cuts, in our opinion, then it should be said: prefer – in part, not in this great dimension, because we also need to look at the budget deficit – prefer and act on the expenditure side and on the revenue side targeted and not somehow! This is what I want to address now. These are the next counter-proposals. Don't pretend you can't do much anyway, according to the motto: We're waiting for the upswing, it's coming from somewhere, and then we can all be happy. – In fact, this has nothing to do with economic policy, but it is a purely electorally motivated budget cycle that you are organising here. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In 2005 – “2006” you have not dared to write because last time the government went flute to you a year earlier; you learn yes, even in Las Vegas! – then, when the upswing comes that you are looking forward to with your budget data, you want to reduce tremendously. Either this is the mentioned show or white ideology, which says it, then you should confess to it: The state must do nothing more, the state should do nothing more, is being discredited, out, pause, nothing; we have resigned! – But we do not need to listen to these long show events. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] So confess to the fact that there are really priorities somewhere, then let's look at them closer. Let's go into the alleged tax reduction. Professor Van der Bellen has already mentioned the global data. That's really true. You have demented that – but expect it! In the years 2004 and 2005, but especially in 2004, we are talking about today, there is a massive additional burden. If you add the tax burden, it will be even higher. And who's meeting that? We can't pretend it's all going to happen like this: 8 million Austrians, all have a little more or a little less. - No! Some of them are particularly bad, and there are a few that may be zero, namely those for which you are really making some improvements in wage and income tax more grateful or useful. But that is not even 300 000 people in employment, and you should say that. More than 600 000 who do not pay taxes now, because they have too little income – a keyword of service providers – are heavily burdened, but no more cents. - That's how your bill looks! That is why we should intervene here with a few instruments. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] – Next proposal from the Greens. We figured this out, it would cost €220 million. Overall, we should, in this privileged part of the tax reform, relieve the beneficiaries of low incomes, which have been exhausted enough in recent times. This would also increase the tendency of consumption, as everyone can understand. In the business sector, something is also going to happen – this is going to happen You may wonder if I say so – yes, but please be careful! Your action does not encourage any investment. We need the classic instruments again in times of uncertainty: Investment premiums and time-limits so that they can work at the right time, that is now, and not when your alleged upturn comes around the curve. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Next point: Focus sets. The only focus I can see is your client policy – agriculture and national defence/military. The total expenditure in the budget, as you proudly proclaim, is only allowed to rise with the federal army, and this has a good reason: because the financial advances for your affluent arms procurements, which are still mostly misinvestments, are already eating up the budget, and the acquisition of the interception hunters threatens you the same! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I can come to my conclusion: We must not expect the greatest tax reduction in the future, we can only expect the largest waste action in the Republic, namely the absurd purchase of the interception hunters – a huge gap in the centre...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6984	Mr. Col., the same right for everyone. [[In the case of the Greens and the SPÖ for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. May. Kogler.]] The next speaker is Mr Vice-Chancellor. The agreement is based on 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7018	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. The tax reform is coming, Mr Kogler, and the first stage of this tax reform, as we promised, comes with 1. January 2004. What has been doubted by three parties a year ago in this Parliament is the basis of this budget: the discharge of annual incomes up to €14 500 from each tax! I give you the right, Mr Kogler, that many Austrians already have no tax to pay on the basis of the policy of this Federal Government, but this discharge package will ensure that 200 000 Austrians will benefit more from the tax savings, and these are the lower and lowest incomes we pay particular attention to. [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also finally – a year earlier than stated in the Declaration of Government – the abolition of the 13th. Sales tax dates. And there is also the discharge of the untapped profits for the small farms in this Republic; almost exclusively for the small farms in this Republic. An overall tax reform at a next stage will relieve the entire economy, but in a first step the small and medium-sized enterprises are initially in line. [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You, too, are always talking about the future of research and investment and infrastructure. We have already talked about the fact that we have had a positive and encouraging development in the external trade balance for the first time. I would like to express my thanks to the Austrians, to the farmers, to the employees that they have done this good job for Austria at a time when the difference between the euro and the dollar burdened Austrian exports. This has not been achieved by politics, but by the Austrian economy and its employees. – A warm thank you for that! [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] I am also very pleased that research expenditure for 2003 will increase to € 1 471 million and € 1 559 million for 2004. I am very pleased that the expenditure on infrastructure measures compared with 1999, when social democracy was responsible, will rise from €2 107 million to €2 783 million in 2003 and then to €2 848 million in 2004. – An important performance for a future-looking infrastructure. I am very satisfied that in a pension system based on the generation contract, expenditure on family benefits will rise to €5 026 million. – The highest level of family benefits at all! It is the first time a Finance Minister has been able to pay €90 million to the families because the Austrian federal railways and other businesses have not been supported at the expense of the family benefits. A good day for the Austrian families! [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the employment situation in Austria. We are discussing the pension reform. – Mr President of the Council! If you stick to the truth as I am, you will confirm that you have received the offer from me to deal with those things that are needed in the pension reform now and then together until 30. September on harmonisation and the further steps to debate and debate REN. ==References== In April, in the review period on the current government proposal that has been reached by Parliament, I negotiated with my friends while you – you know, if you look at the brochures published on 1. May and the strike days have come out, look – already then have prepared the strike. I would think that someone who is in favour of the social partners in Austria should not do so as Mr Nürnberger, who was proud to have taken responsibility for pension reform and for the modernisation of this state, but must go the good Austrian way in the responsibility of Parliament, in the responsibility of the social partners together. [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] . I, Mr Vergestnich, am ready to do so. You know very well that in the last three days I have been discussing with trade unionists important issues, which the trade unionists seem to be only more interested at the middle and lower levels; Questions about improvements in the disabled and atypical workers. I believe that we are well advised to continue negotiations in Parliament at the negotiating table instead of taking action on the street, because we know where this can often lead. No Austrian worker would go to the street to have pension schemes at the end of the strike as in Greece: work up to 67, an annual average pension amount of €2 378. I think, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian pensioners would be grateful to have been mobilized for such a pension system. We should not forget that expenditure on pensions will also rise according to this budget. We will slow them down, but they will continue to rise continuously. I should also like to point out that it has already been significant for me that the representatives of the Chamber of Workers and the Trade Union Confederation have worked for three years in the Reform Commission and no longer appeared at the last session. I think that if one says A and cooperates in a reform commission, one should also say B and be involved in the implementation of the decisions of the Reform Commission. [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] If you are serious about Austria, who is serious about all generations in Austria and who seriously believes that the burden of the reform should not be done at the expense of a generation, then the pension reform must now be implemented and should not be postponed to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7124	We are now starting with a round of speakers with a speaking time of 5 minutes each. The first speaker is Mr Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7142	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen from the government! Let me start with two comments; President It is not a parliamentarian, therefore it should not be contradicted by the words of him. In connection with the transfer of emergency aid to the “new social assistance”, President Vergestnich said that the truth had not been said by the Federal Chancellor in this regard. I have worked in this field for seven years, and I can say: This ‘new social assistance’ is not comparable to the current social assistance of the countries. To get them, we need a basic social assistance law and with all countries – including Vienna and the Burgenland, Mrs Collaborative – Article-15a agreements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] Countries and municipalities should also be more involved. That's the right way! [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The second thing that really worries me is linguistic radicalization. I am sometimes at risk in this regard, but the President of the Trade Union Confederation should really consider discrediting our fellow Members because we are firmly convinced that we are adopting necessary laws as criminals. [[Abg. Oellinger: Here you are an expert!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: He didn't do that!]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that is what you decided to go too far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: He didn't do that!]] – Raub is a criminal offence, colleague Silhavy! Please note that this double budget for the years 2003 and 2004 is the opposite of what was claimed here by SPÖ chairperson Gusenbauer and also by you, Mr Verzetznitsch. Of course, it is a consistent implementation of the stability programme of the Federal Government and thus a continuation of the policy of the government of Schüssel I. That was the trademark of this government and will of course find its continuation in this legislative period. Ladies and gentlemen! This budget, of course, is in great contrast to what SPÖ Federal Chancellor and SPÖ Finance Ministers have spent 30 years on financial policy. I have to tell you – I am still telling you in Schilling, because the debts have been piled up by you at a time when Schilling was still reckoned: In this case, the Court of Interest service is 270 million schilling every day! ==References== February 2000, when the government began its work, Schüssel I received a backpack filled with 270 million schilling daily interest services. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] These are per eligible Austrian/per eligible Austrian 1 258 € or 17 000 S only at interest rate service. – This is the legacy that the government has given to Schüssel I, and that is what naturally burdens us. [[Abg. Mandak: You were responsible!]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Your party was in the government!]] You may be excited about this – it is not pleasant for us either, but we are going to make a different budget policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This 2003/2004 budget is a good budget, a good budget in several ways: First of all – and you could have done this already – low income earners up to an annual income of €14 500 grossly tax-free. This is a living Christian democratic policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, it is a budget in which major reforms are taken into account – reforms that you are unfortunately not ready for. Thirdly, it is a budget in the interest of young people, and that is most important to me. Therefore, Germany also looks at us with full recognition. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: That's not true!]] The chief economist of the Deutsche Bank, Norbert Walter, explained: We would also like to have a finance minister like Grasser! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You hear and marvel: A finance minister like Grasser would like them too! All the more incomprehensible are your personal attacks. They are not factually justified. Should I give you the reason for your attacks? – SPÖ has commissioned a study for € 145 000. Some of you will know them, they are called “Network Red: White: Red. ” And this study has come to the conclusion that Karl-Heinz Grasser is the politician in Austria, who plays a very positive role in the SPÖ's central electorate groups. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] So what do the authors of the study of SPÖ recommend? They recommend that Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser be politically disavowed. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Have you commissioned the study?]] No, she's been paid by Bures, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7314	I ask you – as I do with everyone else – for the final sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7334	I'll be at the end of the sentence. – Whatever you do, it will be an improper attempt. If it is also your job to politically disavow Karl-Heinz Grasser – you will not succeed, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7365	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7383	It is at least interesting that the Secretary-General of the ÖVP defends the so-called Partyless Finance Minister here with so much vehemence and commitment. Maybe he thinks Grasser will be the next party observer of the ÖVP. I do not know, but he will have some reason to defend the Secretary-General of the EIA, the so-called independent finance minister here as an EIA minister. But that's not the subject. Today’s theme is the budget debate, the budget speech of the Minister of Finance, which he held yesterday, which was entitled by a commentator in the “standard” as “The Turns of the Theatermaker”. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Did he mean the cap?]] – An interesting title, he describes – I think, to remember that Jörg Haider, too, once said this on television – this popularity of the finance minister’s policy – a mark, a trademark. It was interesting to see the course of his opinions in the various budget discussions and public issues. You know, of course, how it started with: Zero deficit is zero deficit! Then it said: a balanced budget over the economic cycle. It was questioned whether 0.5 or 0.7 percent deficit would not in any case be equivalent to a zero deficit. Finally, it said: At some point when the debt years are over, we want to work as close as possible to the zero! – This is the language that should be criticized: It's trying to get people into something, fogg them, not really tell them what it's all about. That must be shown by us once, and we do! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In 2000 the famous sentence fell: “A good day begins with a renovated budget.” – In the government program on 28 October. The budget deficit is set out in February 2003. Or: the announcement of the biggest tax reform; almost one hears: “all times”, but is meant to be the largest tax reform of the Second Republic. – Then she doesn’t come and she doesn’t come and she doesn’t come! It's being postponed, and then there's only the target: maybe 2005. Or,grasser's statement: What we give to the citizens, we have to take them before. – That’s what we so criticize! It is constantly being tried to bring the citizen and the citizen around on the nose, to sell her for stupid! But the taxpayer has a right to know what it is all about. It's about him, it's about our country, it's about the future. There is no way to pursue this kind of policy, because one cannot give such budget speeches – with the Sanctuary of the one who, as the newspaper says, actually uses Grasser as a Marionette, namely the Federal Chancellor! We have seen how close the bond between the two is, when the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany had been so hard on the Minister of Finance earlier and tried to defend him against his critics here. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is a thorn in your eye that works so well!]] There is a close spiritual relationship here. Everyone needs to know: Whoever criticizes Grasser and his debt policy and his deficit policy and his tax policy, must in fact criticize the entire government, especially the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who ultimately bears responsibility for this non-social policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Example Recipient: At first, used interception hunters were in conversation. Then it said: We must first wait for security policy to take place in Europe! Then it said: Catchers are not eligible for funding at all! Then it said: The zero deficit is more important than the interceptors! And then the purchase of the most expensive interception hunters has been decided. – Minister of Finance Grasser said: I fully support this decision. Then he said – so everyone fears – that it was a warplane. In the discussion yesterday, it was only an airspace surveillance plane. That's the language Grassers, that's the KHG mark: say something, but let the citizen guess what you mean with it; it's the most beautiful thing if he never gets on it. – This is your attitude, Minister of Finance, and we condemn it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But this seems to be the case with the Secretary-General of the ÖVP. He sits here interested and wants to defend this phenomenon of Grasser, this media phenomenon of Grasser as a subject of study. I see it differently. We also have an important responsibility, a responsibility to the citizens who watch and listen to us today, and they can rightly expect us to deal with each other in a reasonable manner, to carry out conflicts openly and honestly and clearly, and that democratic institutions are not defamated by, for example, raising the question here: Are they allowed to hold business meetings and strikes at all? Why are there such measures? – Because the citizens are worried about their secure evening of life. If you become a Life prepared for something and paid for it, then you also want secure pensions. – This rumbling of a responsible government with the evening of life of many people in Austria is a scandal, and that is why we are so excited!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7454	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Same speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7472	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Again and again the reasoning of Mr Cap, for example, is amazing and recurring, that the big tax reform, the largest in the Second Republic, is only announced as a target. – Of course, it is an objective to implement this tax reform in 2005 to implement this tax reform. I note that there have been no targets in the past 30 years of socialist financial policy, otherwise it would not have been possible to collect this mountain of debt, as measured by gross domestic product, as you have done, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore find it incomprehensible that a budget deficit which is – admittedly – indicated in these two budgets is so critically criticized by the SPÖ, by Mr Cap. What was the budgetary policy of recent years among socialist finance ministers? The previous ÖVP/FPÖ government did the following: It has devoted itself to the consolidation of the state budget, in view of the need which has emerged from the fact that you have left behind a corresponding debt mountain without any prospects! So she has done something that you have obviously never been able to realize, namely to renovate this state budget. In the 30 years in which the financial unit was under socialist leadership, there was construction work only in the field of debt building, ladies and gentlemen! They have said that the Minister of Finance has, as it were, raised the zero deficit to the dogma in 2001, or originally for the year 2002. I'll tell you: It was right to keep in mind the zero deficit of the population, because, according to your financial policy, no one believed that it could be possible in this state to achieve such a zero deficit at all! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is true that consolidation of a balanced budget should be considered in such a way that it can be achieved over the economic cycle. That makes sense, it makes sense! It is a balanced budget not for one or two years, but taking into account the global economic situation and economic development. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: But the Dr. Gusenbauer had to tell you first, Mr. Colleague! ...!]] Deficiencies are likely to be taken into account if, because of the economic situation, economic and labour policy impulses are needed. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is also happening. This has happened during the last legislative period, and this is also happening in this legislative period. Packages have been tied up, which have made it possible for economic operators to continue their operations successfully, given the strained financial situation, for which they have created the basis: the economic package I and the economic package II. I also expressly welcome the fact that this Austrian cum, the 13. Sales tax date, which everyone in that country has felt to be extremely unfair, is now permanently abolished and is no longer being carried. I also welcome the fact that a tax reform is defined as an objective and is being launched, and I am also very confident about its implementation. I also expressly welcome the fact that the budgetary and financial policy will allow for an improvement in the capital situation of our Austrian companies, by halving the maximum tax rate from 50 to 25 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! There are many measures and many impulses that will be put in this legislative period in the field of economic policy and which, I believe, are necessary in order to ensure jobs and the economic continuation of our Austrian enterprises in the future. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7531	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7546	Let me make one more comment: The current action of the ÖGB in connection with...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7567	Mr Hofmann, everyone has to be treated in the same way. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's already there, at the end!]] I also interrupted colleague Partik-Pablé. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yes, wrong! You're wrong!]] Your speaking time is limited to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7607	... the pension reform, especially since you, ladies and gentlemen, are punishing someone who has no influence at all in this area, namely the pension reform, the Austrian companies, through your actions and through your...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7632	The speaking time has expired! [[I should like to congratulate the liberals for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann.]] The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7664	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a number of distribution aspects, including justice aspects of the budget and pension reform, especially from the point of view of young people and women. A game is currently being played in which pension candidates, young people on the one hand and pensioners, pensioners and pensioners on the other hand, are being played against each other by means of a large demographic bomb, presented as such, which is supposed to make these inevitable deep cuts into the pension system necessary. In reality, however, it is about something quite different. I could find myself very well with this system if one could agree to say: The state, the Republic will spend such a large share of GDP in the coming years, so and so many percent of it, for pensions. – But that is not the case! If the figures submitted by the Upper Austrian Government are true, it will come so far in 2015 that the federal grant for the ASVG-pensioners will fall below zero! This means that this pension reform is quite different, namely the abolition of the responsibility of the State and the Republic for pensions and their successive exemption from this responsibility. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The young people are being pushed into an American system, which is essentially much more risky, with the final fiscal objective of this reform then being that the state will no longer spend on future state pensions than on a social assistance beneficiary. The young people should think about this: whether to give up the proven system – that is what it is about – and switch it into such a risky system. The beneficiaries of this are not the young people – that must be said. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] If you are already talking about injustices, you also have to deal with a subject that has been completely forgotten, which has always been cut in some form, but has not yet been seriously addressed, namely the political pensions. Until now, the proposals that exist are no longer cosmetic. Unfortunately, we still have a living example here in the hall: 12 800 € salary and pension! – Mr President, I would like to ask you if you know how high a woman’s average pension is. [[Abg. Sburny goes to the square of Abg. Dr. Stummful and place a box filled with euro-shine with a label related to his pension next to him, which he then returns to the Green MEPs.]] This is €680. If you compare this amount with the figure mentioned above, then it is eighteen times! I wonder why it was not possible to present a serious political pension reform until today, until this reform and the rapid penetrating mechanism that characterises it by Parliament. I am very sorry that a proposal for such a reform has not yet come from you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One of the further injustices concerns once again the question: How does this budgetary reform, the structure of the new budget on the income situation, affect the incomes of women? - The numbers are known. We know that there is a huge gap between male and female incomes, and the question is quite right: How does the budget presented affect women, and how does the tax reform affect women's incomes? – This is a very serious situation. There has been a pass in the Government Convention, according to which all laws are reviewed on their impact on the situation of women. This is clearly not the case in this law and has not been forgotten. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A few figures on this: The alleged discharge concerns income of 14 500 € gross per year. These are tax-free; all higher incomes are still lightly relieved. How high is the average female income in Austria grossly over a year? – It is below, i.e. € 14 000. This means that, on average, women are not relieved by these alleged relief measures and, of course, many women still deserve much less than this alleged limit of discharge. This means that this reform is disproportionately disadvantaged to women – and that, although your stated aim was to review such things in the future in the laws, so that what you are doing here will come to mind at all. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In fact, women who earn below-average are additionally burdened by higher self-sufficiency, by increasing health insurance contributions and by increasing taxes in the energy sector. That's not fair! Two more sentences concerning the situation of young people: If you are going to have a lot more people on the labour market through this pension reform and are trying to keep older workers on the labour market in particular, this is only at the expense of the access of younger people to the labour market. These measures take place in combination with the reduction of public service posts – minus 35,000 jobs! – with the reduction of educational investment in the university and in the school sector. – One can discuss quality and structural measures, but take hours off and not invest in education,...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7770	Final rate, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7786	..., that means an additional extreme inequality of young people. This budget is, therefore, not for the future, but for the contrary! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7822	I am now interrupting the meeting for 15 minutes in accordance with the agreement. We'll continue at 1:15 p.m. The first speaker after the lunch break will be the Federal Minister for Finance with a speaking time of 5 minutes; the chairman will be Mr Prinzhorn. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7852	I'll start the interrupted session again. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7886	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I would like to try to make four brief clarifications about the debate this morning. First point: We have been accused of making a deficit of 1.3 percent and 0.7% respectively. – I would like to say once again: In the last 30 years, no Finance Minister, no Federal Chancellor, no government in front of us has succeeded in achieving a lower deficit. On the contrary: Until the 1990s, the deficit in Austria was over 5 percent! We have achieved the best results in the last 30 years. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Walch.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: Mr Gusenbauer has said that we are increasing taxes and taxes, and more and more should be paid in taxes and taxes. If I have correctly understood you, Professor Van der Bellen, you have said that it is not a net burden of €500 million, but a tax of €200 million that comes out. They have also accused me of making incorrect statements in my budget speech, in a tone which I regret, and I do not wish to reply in the same form. Professor, I said in my budget speech: “This first stage of the tax reform will move a volume of approximately €950 million. It will lead to a net relief of €500 million. Together with the two economic recovery packages, the discharge effects even amount to € 1 billion.” – Quote from my budget speech. In fact, the effects of the tax and tax reform are the ones with 1. January 2004 will enter into force, in 2004 a net relief of € 169 million, in 2005 € 431 million and in 2006 € 623 million – there we have the full impact. Together with the economic recovery packages of the years 2001 and 2002, which are now leading to discharges, we have in total discharges at the following amount: € 731 million in 2004, € 968 million in 2005, € 1 310 million in discharge in 2006. I have given averages in the budget speech. I think this is fair and serious, and even more important: It corresponds to the facts, ladies and gentlemen. We relieve the population substantially and are proud of it! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Walch.]] So that you can see this from examples: A pensioner, monthly gross income: 1 000 €. Increases due to increases in health insurance contributions due to fuel loads, including in the area of heating. – Net advantage that remains for this pensioner: 100 € net more a year! Two earners, worker/employee, the man deserves €2 500, the wife deserves €1,000. Some loads in the area of heating and fuel. – Net relief for this family: 297 € a year! Ladies and gentlemen! That can be seen! That's no more taxes, that's less taxes. This is the discharge that we set out yesterday, which we are standing to and which we are going to implement! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Third point: Professor Van der Bellen has “disgusting suspicions. ” He said he drew on a commercial example – I also regret that you have made this choice of words, because you have spoken to the universities there, Professor. My quote from yesterday in connection with the universities is: “We provide for more than €8.2 billion for education and science in the 2003 Federal estimates; In 2004 these expenditures will even increase to over €9 billion.” These are exactly the figures in the federal proposal. You know Austrian budgetary law, you know the gross principle of budgetary law, we have to represent the extension of the balance sheet in the way they are presented, otherwise my actions would be illegal, Professor. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Eh, but correctly interpret! I said yes!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Professor! Because you said “unblemished“, I would like to say that we are not concealing these statements, but that this is quite transparent and openly explained in a budget report, which is on its way to the High House, which we have decided in the Council of Ministers at the same time with the federal financial laws. I'm sure you'd get on it yourself, but we're not hiding it, we're not hiding it, we're not hiding it, we're very transparent, and we're proud to be making more available to universities in 2004 by € 128 million – more for research, more for science than ever before in Austria. A good way for our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Last point: Alfred Gusenbauer listened badly to me, I did not quote Anton Benya yesterday, but Franz Olah. I have thus reached the theme of “Streiks”. Ladies and gentlemen! The “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” of yesterday wrote: ‘General strike in Austria’. She continues to write – I quote the last sentence; what is said here must be aware of all of us! –: [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] [[Call the SPÖ:Ready time!]] “However, this was very much a political general strike, and the Schüssel government did well not to be intimidated and oppressed, for politics belongs to Parliament, not to the street.” That is exactly what we will do, ladies and gentlemen. You are invited to join us!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7987	Mrs Fekter is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8005	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! I deeply regret that none of the gentlemen of the union are in the hall anymore. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: They're not done with lunch!]] I would ask you from the SPÖ to state the content of my speech to Mr Vergestnich. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] For a long time, I was convinced that everyone here in the House was democrats and fully committed to the rule of law. The first doubt that the Socialists do not take it so precisely with their democratic understanding I received at the time of sanctions against Austria. I do not have any more doubts, but since Tuesday I know that the SPÖ is throwing democratic principles and its commitment to the rule of law loosely overboard when it comes to its aspect of power. [[Abg. Gaál: Then you don't know our story!]] Today's speech by Mr Verzetznitsch was defying On Tuesday in the morning, I attributed the comparison with the Sparkassenraub to a derailment of a district official, who literally said the same thing, today I know that this is the new ÖGB division, which is scattered throughout Austria. [[Call at the SPÖ: Who wrote this to you?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Two are not yet an area!]] On Tuesday, the pension reform was under attack. My business in Redlham was also affected. It was not a strike, however, because none of my employees have reached out to me, but non-operators have conducted an illegal blockade at our factory entrance. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Well noted: not a strike, but a blockade! The purpose of this illegal occupation was also to read on a transparent: Strike – or no to the pension robbery, Mrs. Fekter. In order to exert pressure on me, considerable damage has been done to our operations. [[Abg. Scheibner: scandalous!]] For several hours, the transport concrete and the hot mixture could not be delivered – well noticed: both “degradable” products, which you cannot simply put aside, because both become hard within hours. [[Abg. Gaál: Are you talking about it as an entrepreneur?]] It was therefore blocked by factory production, but at the same time there was a standstill on our construction sites, because there the mixed material, the asphalt, could not be supplied, but had waited for road rollers, prefabricators and construction parties. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, I was threatened to continue such blockages and economic pressure on me next Tuesday if I did not vote against the pension reform in the National Council. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Awesome!]] I have here the criminal code, and in it is the section “Requiring members of a constitutional representative body”, namely § 251 StGB: [[the speaker keeps this up-to-date]] “If a member of the National Council, of the Federal Council, of the Federal Assembly... requires by force or by dangerous threat or prevents him from exercising his powers at all or in a certain sense, he shall be punished with a term of imprisonment of six months up to five years....” [[Abg. Gaál: Are you a businessman or a parliamentarian?- Oh, my God!]] It's not a cavalier's crime, it's not a crime, it's a crime according to our criminal order! ‘Requirement of members of a constitutional representative body’. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the trade union and SPÖ, there has been a criminal procedure, by your employees and officials. What kind of concept of democracy do you actually have if you are exerting economic pressure on me to provoke a certain voting behaviour here? I therefore urgently seek to stop this and to assure myself that next week will no longer happen, otherwise I would have to vote against the pension reform while at the same time bringing an advertisement to the public prosecutor's office for this criminal behaviour.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8164	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8183	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: What do you say, Mrs. Prammer?]] In contrast to you, I will not talk about more or less regrettable Members in this House, but about the many thousands of women who will take your measures very seriously. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Criminal actions of officials from your district! Your District Secretary!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They present a non-social “screw budget” and, above all, they have forgotten women completely. We discussed what you have done to women in the budget accompanying law last week, and today the budgets for 2003 and 2004 are also available. Regardless of the fact that, of course, both budgets were not reflected in terms of women's concerns – Mrs Glawischnig has already brought some examples – I have made the effort to look at what the women's budget looks like. The women's budget has still made up nearly 80 million schilling in 1999 – 2003 and 2004 will go down rapidly. [[Abg. Silhavy: This is a scandal!]] The women's projects will no longer have any money available to do the work that women need on-site, advice, will really be able to do. – That’s your policy, too, that you hide in this budget! There are small amounts, there are also many important large amounts inside, but we must not forget the women's projects, because this is about to happen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Finanzminister! I listened very attentively to you yesterday at your speech and at first I thought I might have just missed it: There were no women in it. I then made the effort at home and searched your speech with the electronic seeker: One time, the word “woman” occurred, namely, where it is about having to work longer in order to be able to retire. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] – This is Your budget speech yesterday, Minister of Finance, and it is significant! What you're uplifting the women in the next few days is incredible. They are talking about “retirements, ” a“ longer transition. ” – Please, what about the longer transition from early retirement to unemployment? This is a form of pension, which accounts for 80 percent of women, and it will be used on 1 January. July 2004, next year, and women will no longer be able to use this form of pension, which is often applied today. [[Abg. Steibl: It is not abolished, but...!]] They will have to live with the fact that they will receive a transitional money that is much lower than what they claim today. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, are talking about “intervention in existing pensions” – I do not know where you always take it from. Intervention in existing pensions do you already! They make an additional pension contribution to public servants – but not only to those who have high pensions, but also to all, including the small D official and the small P official, and this is an intervention in the weakest and really also expropriation, otherwise it cannot be mentioned here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You say you strengthen the third pillar. – Haven Are you looking at the incomes of women in this country? – Today, the Chamber of Labour of Upper Austria has again published the gross incomes of incomes: 17 percent of all women earn less than € 1,000 gross per month. How, please, do you want to explain to these women that they still have to put money aside to build the third pillar? I do not want to talk about the tax reform, nor about the milkmaid bill that you use over and over again. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why don't you talk about the tax reform – because it benefits the little earners exactly again!]] Mr Finanzminister! They are often quoted today in the newspapers under the abbreviation “KHG”. I also made my reim on it: cold, heartless and smooth – just like your two budgets and your budget-accompaniment law look. – People will “thanks” to you – under quotation marks.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8302	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8321	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Values listeners! Mrs Prammer, at the end of your speech, you said that 17 percent of women would earn less than € 1,000. – Actually, you would have to thank us for introducing a minimum wage of €1,000, which will benefit these women. [[Call the SPÖ: Where?]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course! This is included in the budget accompanying law. [[Abg. May. Prammer: We would agree with your request! Where is the application?]] As well as that 14 500 € annual income should be tax-free. This is a major improvement! We have thrown you a hölzl, which could also catch up with the trade union, that you are actually introducing these 1 000 €. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: Where is the bill?]] – All of this is coming! [[Abg. Arbitrator: When will the application come?]] Everything at the right time! [[Abg. May. Worm: On the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day!]] We shall adopt the budget accompanying law on 4 April. June and then the budget. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - We'll see what comes out. Mrs Prammer, you have also said that women have been forgotten in this budget and in the budget accompanying law. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Yes!]] – I say to you: We have determined that per child three years of child rearing time is used as a reduction in the calculation time. That too is an essential improvement! [[Abg. May. Prammer: Milkmaid bill! Don't give the women anything!]] Another improvement for women is the increase in childcare from 18 to 24 months. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Milkmaid bill! Don't give the women anything!]] Furthermore, the factor used for retirement periods during child rearing – the basis is the compensation allowance – is increased to 150 percent. This is an essential improvement! [[New call of the abg. May. Prammer.]] Mrs Prammer, you are often criticized and said that the longer calculation is so bad. [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction SPÖ) They have asked you yourself!]] – We want to improve the evaluation factors in this regard in such a way as to better assess longer periods of time. [[Abg. May. Worm: Does the Federal Chancellor and Minister of Finance know that?]] This is a common failure of the social democrats and the ÖVP from the past. One has forgotten these upgrading factors. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Some of them are only 60 percent! If one were to adjust these factors according to the wage index, then it would be particularly helpful for women and workers. – Ganau we want to implement this in negotiations, Mrs Prammer! [[Abg. May. Worm: Where's that?]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: Where?]] In any case, we all know that there must be something to do with pensions. The worst thing would be that nothing is happening there. Mr President, you are noding – we all believe that something has to happen there. One of them says: You don't have to do everything at once, the others say: All at once, that's the only truth! I too am of this opinion: You should do nails with heads, and you should do it soon. There is no mention of a whip, but hurry is required. The Pension Reform Commission has worked for three years, under the direction of Professor Tomandel, and I know that the social partners have been involved, including the senior representatives, and this Pension Reform Commission has called for the following: A longer calculation – I have already explained what is still planned and so on – is one topic, the other is to bring the actual retirement age to the regular retirement age. You just have to sit there somewhere. If someone asks me where to put it, I say you have to put up with those who press the average, and not with those who already work longer. [[Abg. May. Worm: Stupid, that's where you have to put!]] That is also clear, and that is now being done. Harmonization of pension systems has also been developed by the Pension Reform Commission. I would remind you of the following: In 1997, when the... – colleague Silhavy, 1997 you were here, too, and at that time the scheme was made. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] At the time, there was a four-party request: from the Social Democrats, the Austrian People's Party, the Greens and the Liberal Forum. At the time, FPÖ called for an approximation to the private sector: If someone is ASVG insured, GSVG insured or farmer or official, then he should continue to be insured. I mean, that would make sense. Today, a few years later, there is still the two-class system: There are privileged and less privileged. There are different contributions in this area – even in the other areas of the pension system – there is this, there is a different age of access, and there are different pension levels, and this has to be eliminated. We want to do this now, and that must be in your interest. We should work on it for the benefit of all Austrians, because that is what we are all being measured. We should speedily make nails with heads, and those who today double cover in this area should take their own noses – even if you are sitting in this house – and be a model. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8578	The next item is Mrs Sburny's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8596	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to take a closer look at the ongoing debate on what is democratic in terms of the strike and what is not, and I would like to take a closer look at the democratic understanding of the government parties. I am going back a few years, to the last legislative period, during which there were considerations by the head of state Haider, to consider a criminal prosecution of Members who were “needing the Austrian empire”, as he called it, and a minister Böhmdorfer, who at the time found it a “at least a follow-up idea”. – That was your understanding of democracy at the time. Yesterday, Mr. Head of Parliament said in the direction of opposition: Let us work! as if the opposition would hinder the government, as if only by having the opposition there and, so to speak, making its comments, the government would already be disabled. – The opposition does not hinder the government, but has a very essential task here in what you are planning! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Today it was said: “Politics belong to Parliament, not to the street.” – This is also a very interesting view of democracy. Of course, democracy and party political decisions belong to Parliament and Parliament is the place where this is carried out if you, Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups and of the government, but assuming that the other people have no right to be politically active, then, I believe, one can really doubt your concept of democracy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who says that?]] – That was a literal quote! Today, Minister Grasser said this – literally: ‘Politics belong to Parliament, not to the streets’ – you can check it out. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I quoted the “FAZ”!]] Minister Grasser's speech yesterday was an advertising event in several ways: Not only has he spread advertising slogans from some close-up companies, he himself is a prototype for a group of people who are currently benefiting from government policy: He's pretty young, he's male, and he's got enough money, so he can afford a lot of risk. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: “Men” is not an accusation, is it?]] - That's a statement. Just this group of people usually benefits from the kind of politics that is currently being made “medial” men who have enough money to be able to afford themselves a risk. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] I can understand that the ÖVP can use Grasser very well, because the ÖVP for its part has a bit of a problem when it thinks of its target groups, which sometimes still show something like a social conscience. Of course, it is difficult for the ÖVP to address things as clearly and directly as Minister Grasser, who does not have to deal with such a thing as a party at all. [[Abg. Eder: Oh yes, with the FPÖ!]] The ÖVP can, of course, need Mr Grasser for such a thing, and I also understand that you then praise him, support him and are quite euphoric about the words he says here. One thing, however, must also be said: You are very consistent in your policy. Their kind of redistribution within the budget is absolutely consistent, always from bottom to top – no matter what area it is. Mr Finanzminister, you said yesterday that there are scarce resources. – The fact is that Austria’s wealth, prosperity, is still growing. The fact is, however, that it is about how you distribute these resources – this is what it is all about. For example, how you distribute these resources can be read in the report on the social situation, where it is shown that the difference between women's incomes and men's incomes is growing, but also between workers and self-employed. The really surprising thing is that even within the economic operators you divide from the little ones to the great; this even confirms the Lower Austrian Chamber of Commerce. They shall set up a tax relief measure for non-extracted profits, which shall be clearly and exclusively for the benefit of the largest holdings. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8699	Mr Gorbach has been reported from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8721	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. High house! The objective for Austria, as a knowledge and economic location, is not just to consolidate its position, is set out in the government programme. It is of course also an objective – an ambitious goal – of the competent minister of technology and infrastructure. From a budgetary point of view – and this is the point of view today – there are, of course, priorities to be set. In my opinion, it is essentially two priorities: firstly, the general transport plan, the projects contained therein, and also the guarantee of financing for as long as possible, and secondly, the research and development sector, the efficiency of research promotion. Today we have heard in a number of speeches – and that has so far been incontrovertible – that as many resources are being used in infrastructure and research with these two budgets as never before. Of course, that's gratifying. Well developed transport networks, functioning infrastructures, access to modern communications technologies, optimal framework conditions for research and technology: These are important factors for an advantage of Austria's economic location in international competition. I repeat it: As many resources have never been available for infrastructure and technology as 2003 and 2004. This too should recognise an opposition as very positive, because technology, development, research are something that works far into the next generations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The transport sector is very short: The expected increase in traffic, in particular due to the enlargement of the EU, will be a challenge and the financing concepts will have to be alternative. As I see Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger, I say immediately: but above all, environmentally friendly. Proper resolution must be ensured, and security also plays a role. We have only recently discussed this in detail in the EU. I am also very clear about this because, today, a discussion on an important road and rail project, or at all with the Trans-European Networks, is taking place, that changes in the general transport plan are only made if the financing concept is included, or if the financing is clarified, otherwise I am not prepared to shake it. Ladies and gentlemen! The ASFINAG will have to make a contribution. We need revenue from the sales of vignettes as well as that of road pricing, which is on the right track – in the truest sense of the word – from 1. January 2004, as planned, to be introduced; perhaps even more functional and even earlier than our German colleagues. We need revenue from it. At the end of last year, Asfinag had a debt of €7.41 billion, which is why these financial resources are needed, although it would be right for me to have an ecologisation of the road pricing system in 2005; I will keep in mind that. [[Abg. May. Worm: Five years too late!]] The profound and necessary reforms at the ÖBB are hopefully also undisputed. The ÖBB should become more competitive in order to be able to really perceive its important – the most important – transport policy role in the country, especially in the context of the enlargement of the East, and this without the cost growing to an irresistible dimension, as was the case in the past. The aim must therefore be: Increase the level of self-financing of the ÖBB and reduce the federal grant requirement. The debt was €4.88 billion at the end of last year. I can also mention the SCHIG debt: That was € 4.7 billion. So there is a need for action. We have planned effective measures in the government programme and we will move forward quickly. But now the most important area: Research and innovation. Let me put it this way, especially if I stand next to the Minister for Finance: A good day begins with a secure research funding. I see it that way! [[Abg. Oils: Don't praise the day before the evening!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Joy at fixed targets in the field of research and development is announced, because if we have undertaken – not only writing down but also using budget resources – that we increase the R&D quota to 2.5 percent of GDP by 2006 and to 3% by 2010, this is a great thing to bring Austria to a top point in Europe in this important area too, namely among the first three. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn gives the bell sign again.]] Finally, I can say that further major reforms, including those discussed today, will be necessary. [[Call the Greens:Ready time!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: This is our speaking time!]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn gives the bell sign again.]] Mr President. We need savings potential. I will not be afraid to represent these reforms together with this government, because they will be important for the future of our youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8832	Ladies and gentlemen! In accordance with an agreement in the Presidential, the remaining time of television transmission will be allocated to the political groups by 14.15 a.m., at 4 minutes each. Mr Spindelegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8854	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! What's so much in my stomach at this debate on the part of the opposition is that you're talking about the hot bitch. [[Abg. Reheis: That's what you say, Mr. Colleague!? You're talking about that! You invented the wreath! You've produced the broth!]] They all do not have the courage to stand before the people and to say what the facts are, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I'll throw that in front of you. You're talking like nothing has to happen. In your speeches you say: Sometime in the future, in 20 years, we will change a little on pension questions. Dear ladies and gentlemen! You know as well as we all do: Lower birth rates mean that you can't offer a higher number of contributors over 20 years. A much higher age of life – which we look forward to – means much more pensioners. They are talking about the need to increase the federal subsidy through the payment procedure. Who's paying him? - We're all together! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Even without a pension reform, the federal grant would have fallen!]] We're all sitting in a boat where it says: The taxpayer must be straight to do so if there is a financial gap somewhere. That's exactly what I'm asking you to do, because you're trying to spread sand into the eyes of people. That's not all right, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We are going through Parliament, the path of fine-tuning parliamentary deliberations, but we are not going to talk about the principles, because it is about longer work and the need to reduce the pension level rather than rise is clear to all of us! We assume that we have to change something where there are unfair hardness. There you are invited to make your contributions. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Just what the government parties want to do! This is what we call democracy!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also necessary to try, through consensus culture in this House and in the Committee, to follow the course of these unfair hardships, and not, as Mr President Vergestnich, with the help of officials and works councils, to try to drive the ÖGB in a direction where the citizens do not want it! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] challenge the establishment of work, carry strikes into the establishments and cause mistrust between workers and employers: [[Abg. May. Worm: Strike is in...?]] That is not what citizens in this country want! You want you to sit down and propose alternatives, and I would like to invite you once again in every form, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Peel through! 91 laws!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] I am concerned about where you are heading with your line, Mr Vergestnitsch, as an ÖVP worker. You have the responsibility for that! They drive the ÖGB in a direction where the members of this ÖGB, of which there are many in Austria, actually do not want it. From many conversations and news that come to me, I know that there are concerns about individual regulations, and there is also something we must do, not a question at all, but to drive the ÖGB in a direction, where he then tries with strikes, with a movement from the road, to push himself into a new dimension, that is not Austria, and that is not the union union, as we know it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What does the colleague Neugebauer say about this?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Was that a unanimous decision?]] I would like to conclude by saying the following: The ÖGB represents all employees, not only those who are over 55 years old but all, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Worm: That was a unanimous decision!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: In contrast to the government!]] There are many young people in this country who are concerned that you are only trying to move out with your policy and not to provide for the future. We are not available for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9050	Mr Matznetter spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9075	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. Ladies on the government bank – so that it is reversed once! I would like to say briefly to Mr Fekter: As far as I am properly informed, it was so that there was a conversation with your spouse who felt the reform itself unfair and wanted to come to the demonstration. I think you should stick to reality! – Mrs Colleague, please! [[Rejoicing, congratulation and bravado with SPÖ and with representatives of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... so that the damage is minimized! Why don't you turn this around?]] If you have been disabled on Tuesday on your way to the National Council meeting, which started on Wednesday, then it is natural to follow. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Economic pressure is exerted on me!]] If you publicly claim that certain persons have done this, you have to expect these people to oppose it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I am the managing director of this company, and I have averted damage from this company!]] I wasn't there, Mrs. Colleague, either! That is why I would suggest that we come to the real issue. Thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to take advantage of this opportunity – as there is still some excitement among the government parties, probably more because of the events in the town hall or elsewhere – to address a few banal points here, but points that are of great importance. The first point is: They have accused the great coalition with social-democratic chancellors and finance ministers of running the big debt policy. Apart from the fact that the members of the government involved of course also belonged to the ÖVP, the then debtor of the German Chancellors, now no longer present, was the longest-serving member of these governments with the highest increase in debt, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Especially “credible”!]] They are talking about the turn of events that took place in 2000. Then we say when the turn was – under Rudi Edlinger and before Viktor Klima. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Guilt Rudi!]] Do you laugh at mentioning a reduction in the budget deficit? That's typical! He, Edlinger, has reduced the deficit from 5 to 2 percent – and he increases from zero percent and is already at a deficit of €3.9 billion. [[to Federal Minister Mag. Slide Grass]] This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Secretary of State Dr. Finz shows the speaker a graphic.]] So the turnaround took place, Mr Magister, but your “turn” was a turn with a surprising zero deficit – because you could not calculate! Professor Van der Bellen will give me the right to say, One may be mistaken at the revenue side, but then, in 2002, a zero deficit was decided here in this House, but he did not have the expenditure under control! €2.4 billion in overtime – this is the truth about 2002! [[to Federal Minister Mag. Slide Grass]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] Minister Grasser, the other finance ministers in Europe have been able to assess expenditure in their budgets a little better than you. They have drawn up the budget estimate, but afterwards they did not have the expenditure under control – not the other finance ministers! [[Call at the ÖVP:Schröder has...!]] I'm coming to the main point now. We now have a double budget, which does not include any economic policy measures, in which now, in 2003, a year in which we need a discharge, nothing will be done – Mr Kogler rightly pointed out – but it is even worse that he does not control expenditure and expects 0.5 percent of GDP from countries and communities and 0.7% from GDP as a grant, which means nothing more than that the subordinate authorities, which are still trying to set up impulses in infrastructure and other areas, can no longer put them in place. [[to Federal Minister Mag. Slide Grass]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: There's no such thing as that!]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9268	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9315	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! After the polemics of the SPÖ – and I have to say honestly, it doesn’t matter if you talk about “debt-rudi”, “debt-Karli” or anyone else – we should go about talking about the budget. I have joined this House today to deal with the budget – probably as one of the first speakers – because this budget has brought a lot of good for farmers and for agriculture. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: I think so!]] We have achieved a great deal in this area, we have been able to implement important points. We have been able to help maintain and strengthen agriculture in the small and medium-sized family farms. We were also able to contribute to the continued work in the future on good conditions for maintaining agriculture. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] The decision of the 3-billion-€ package has achieved that we can secure the compensatory payments and provide the resources for the co-financing of the Brussels payments in order to invest in the training of rural youth and the agricultural diesel required by FPÖ for years. We will also make some progress in investing in renewable energy. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] [[Rejoicing with the SPÖ in view of this particular case.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (in the direction of the speaker) Did you see that? That was good! A single ÖVPler! Do you also think that was good?]] I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that these funds are important, because without these resources, the survival of domestic agriculture is in danger and without these resources we cannot implement many of these projects! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] – Look, Mr Cap, there can be several! After all, we can secure over 200 000 jobs in agriculture! [[Call the SPÖ:Where?]] After all, we can ensure that food is produced in our home country! After all, we can provide a healthy nature for the local population as well as for the tourists. [[Abg. May. Gäßner: Where are the 200 000 jobs in agriculture?]] Another word about the pension reform, political privileges and the like, which has been mentioned many times today. – Mrs Glawischnig, would you just put away the paper?- Oh, my God! Your remarks were really interesting, I have to say that honestly. Their statements would be an 11 meter set up in the sport without Tormann. [[Abg. May. Worm: How do you vote now?]] They complain about the privileges of politicians! So I'm sorry. Please: Of course, it is not up to the FPÖ for us to have mandates sitting here in plenary, which have two references. Of course, it is not o.k. that there are almost no changes. However, we liberals will fight for the reduction of political privileges. Only: We liberals have always fought for it. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: “Great ” fought!]] The green club – if I have read and remember correctly – did not agree at that time that there would be a rigorous change in the references and equal treatment of politicians with the people in the private sector. [[Abg. Oils: Oh yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Learn history, Mr. Scheuch!]] In conclusion, I would like to say the following: When I look into the ranks like this, ladies and gentlemen, this behavior of some or many privilege riders reminds me a bit of a quote from George Orwell’s “Animal Farm”. [[Abg. Reheis: Look in the right direction!]] [[Abg. Reheis: This is not a good example!]] It reads: “All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9509	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9527	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the greeting I think briefly, because I like to take over from my colleague Scheuch the Elfmeter - this time not only without Tormann, but also without a goal: I just need to shoot forward, Mr. Scheuch. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Without a gate you will meet at least!]] To clarify this, Mr Scheuch: The Green Club voted in 1997 for the new references and for the ceiling. At the same time, it submitted a request, which was also voted on, requiring that the old political pensions be terminated immediately by means of transitional law. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you voted in favour of the overall reform!]] We renewed this demand in 2000 when political pensions were negotiated again between the parties. [[Abg. Scheibner: You voted with SPÖ, ÖVP and Liberals for this pension reform!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] And now, please, listen carefully, because it is not only addressed to your address, but also to the other Members of the Liberals! We would like to say: A reform of the old policy references, which does not end with the old policy references, but once again builds a new transitional right for the old policy references, is a cosmetic reform! If you want to participate, that's your responsibility. I am sure we will not go along with this, Mr Scheuch. That is the crucial point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We first have the... that you do not do so!]] If Mrs Partik-Pablé presents himself here at this speaker's desk, presents a Taferl and announces that Mr Vergestnitsch is entitled to a political board of, what I know, how much, maybe, 10 000 € or so, then this is her case. I don't do it like that! I criticise the system and those politicians who, although register old policy references, at the same time make themselves seem holy here and say: The pension system as a whole eats so much money, it has to be reformed, people get too much! – This is hypocrites! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That someone was able to remain in the old system is the result of a decision that I believe belongs to reformed. But I don't personally blame this person for so long as it doesn't go to the speaker's desk at the same time and talk about the "privilegies" of the ASVG-pensionists. That stimulates, he said, – I don't want to get a call for order again now – the peristaltic. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Sburny spoke about the fact that – and I come to something you all have to know – only “mid-aged” men can afford the second and third pillars at all. I am one of these men, because I have opted for the new system and will receive a pension from the pension fund. Now I ask, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties: Why do you, at the same time as the pension reform, decide on a reform of the pension funds which will eliminate the minimum guaranteed interest rate? If you see your pension funds decisions from 2002 or 2001, you can see... [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Don't come with this, Minister Bartenstein! You're still cashing a pension after the transition, you haven't opted for the pension fund! [[Call the SPÖ:Uralten System!]] [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] I can tell you, Minister Bartenstein, that pensions will be reduced from year to year, despite deposits in this system. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] This is a message I want to convey to all people: Beware of the promises made by this Federal Government in relation to the second and third pillars! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Is it fine that people are still insecure!]] There you are really lost, especially when these promises are linked to the fact that the requirements for claims in the second and third columns are worsened from year to year, from one time to another, just as in the first pillar. This is your policy, and that should end!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9715	Mr Dr. Finz, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9736	Mr President. Dear Minister! High house! The principle of fiscal policy in force so far was as follows: Always spend more than you take! Every small borrower in this country knows that this has to go wrong, because one day you won't get any more money from the bank. [[Abg. May. Worm: Why do you do that?]] Nevertheless, this has never been changed. Mr. Federal Party Chairman Gusenbauer – unfortunately he is now going out – said in the election campaign that he will save 25 percent of the administrative costs. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] There were four SPÖ State Secretary for Public Service: Kostelka, Schlögl, One and Ruttenstorfer. Nevertheless, administrative costs have increased steadily. Why don't you show us how to do this? We'll show you now! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We will, and I am speaking to Professor Van der Bellen, reduce the number of planning posts by 34 709 by the end of this budget period, 2004. However, I have to add to the breakdown of universities that 19 000 are accountable to this account – but still more than 10 000, a great record at that time! Nevertheless, public service has not gotten worse, but more qualitative, because we have specifically started reform projects. [[Abg. Eder: Where did he get better?]] We now have IT government, try it out! Today you can enter your employee responsibility over the Internet, in a few days you have the notice. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Do you pay less taxes?]] SAP – an intelligent software, paperless office – can be used in public administration today, and it is also used. The same applies to the company book. We've changed the organizations. In the time of this government 13 sections were closed in the Federal Ministries alone – so we started “top”, in the central offices – 54 groups were dissolved, 121 departments and 225 units. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: And the section heads sent to the early board!]] The municipality of Vienna, for example, has done nothing at this time, it has maintained its staff status. As the section heads were addressed: A section head at the Federation earns only about two thirds of the salary of a top official of the municipality of Vienna. So these are the "poor" communities, Mr Matznetter, which we are supposed to disburse, or which we ask for in the financial compensation. [[Abg. Eder: Those you're taking off!]] We have an agreement that certain contributions will be made in the context of financial compensation, and we are still waiting for certain contributions to be made by the countries and communities in the implementation of the administrative reform. [[Abg. Gaál: You can take an example from Vienna!]] [[Abg. Eder: I'm glad you're Vienna's ÖVP-Obmann!]] [[Call:You don't even know what a black number looks like]] The objective of reaching the OECD average is not too high, because this would be a 6 percent reduction, about 30 000 staff of 462,000 staff throughout Austria, by 2006. This approach is feasible. We show how we save on expenditure. Another comparison [[Abg. Eder: You are like the Kabas!]] In 1999, the government ratio for expenditure was 54.1 percent and with the end of this 2004 budget period it will be 51.7%. We're going to go where it's important: We are saving expenditure so that we can make the necessary resources available in important areas such as education, research and science and, of course, family support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9904	The next speaker was Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9938	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! I congratulate you on this budget! This is a sustainable, socially just one, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, but above all a sustainable budget – if you know what that is – with long-term security for the people of Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Hallelujah!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] As a farmer, I know what I'm talking about when I'm talking about sustainability. [[Abg. Eder: I believe that right away!]] I also say it quite openly in this circle: As a representative of the rural families, I am grateful for the success of creating a budget that is, as it were, under the motto of "Lederhose and Laptop", that is to say, preserves traditional things, but also enhances progress. This budget has succeeded in securing performance payments for our miners and also the environmental programme, in which more than 70 percent of Austrian farmers with 90 percent of the area volunteered to meet the demand profile that society ultimately places on us, namely to produce comprehensiblely safe food, to produce environmentally sound and to keep the landscape open. I thank you for that. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: You forgot about animal protection!]] Mr Herzegovina, I am still here. Mr Herb, this is all built in, you will know when you have looked at it. Look If you haven't done that yet, take a closer look at the budget. We need this in order to meet this requirement profile, to do so. And we will say clearly and clearly in the future: Yes, ladies and gentlemen of Austria, we will be happy to meet this requirement profile if we are still able not only to polarize and calculate that the farmers would be the great profiters, as the union is doing now, but if we have long-term calculable framework conditions. Only then can we meet this, especially in the face of the great challenges facing agriculture and forestry in Austria. [[Abg. Silhavy: 3 billion €!]] – Mrs Silhavy! [[Abg. Silhavy: It is!]] The WTO negotiations are underway, EU enlargement is underway, the reform of the common agricultural policy is underway. [[Abg. Silhavy: Yes, GATS too!]] [[Abg. Wittauer: The Social Democrats are dealing with this...!]] What way do you want? Do you want an industrialized agriculture in Austria or do you want to continue this successful path of a land-based, land-based agriculture? Give us a clear answer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Do you want to continue your reform of the agricultural policy? In fact, the formula is only: Shorts, shortens and, in turn, shortens until there is nothing left for the peasant families and in the end we can no longer meet the requirement profile for society. That must also be said in all clarity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister! I also very much welcome the success of establishing a first approach to ecologizing in this budget. [[new calls to the SPÖ]] It is a question of burdening human labour and burdening energy accordingly, so that there is the possibility, in particular for farmers, of getting into new forms of energy production. However, this does not only apply to farmers, but it is about realising value added, exploiting potential on the ground, exploiting new technologies, creating jobs and protecting the environment. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I come to my conclusion, a really warm appeal to the ÖGB: I come from an industrial region and live there as a farmer. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: That's four sentences!]] Let me say that in all seriousness. [[Abg. Eder: But fast!]] Stop the path of polarization! [[Abg. Reheis: This is what you have started with the elimination of the social partners!]] Stop the way of choking envy! He's not doing us well, and he's not doing you well. It'll be another election day, and I hope it'll be another payday for you!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10144	The next speaker was Mr Nürnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10162	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I take the appeal very seriously. It is a matter of subject matter to be discussed in Parliament. I do so, especially because, when Mr Bundeskanzler mentioned the points of the pension reform, he said in his second point: Those who work longer don't change for them. And you, Mr Bucher, the You said today that we had special examples and fear-making, I would like to make these facts available. I offer you to go through these cases together. Perhaps we can agree on the rules of the game, perhaps we can agree that, if there is a competent body in this country, there can only be the one that will issue the legal notice on how much the person concerned receives a pension. Therefore, the examples of real-life persons mentioned by us – I am willing to call you name, insurance number and everything – are counted by the pension insurance institution, i.e. by that institution that will issue the notice once. In addition, I would like to tell you the basics, as was expected, so that there can be no such thing as: It has all been expected for the benefit of the government, i.e. taking on continuous employment – i.e. not about a few months of sick leave or a little similar result of worsening – and an annual 1.5 percent increase in wages and wages; I guarantee you that in the next few years we will complete by far more than 1.5 percent, because over the last 20 years we have always completed with more than 1.5 percent – that is also a very serious assumption. ==References====External links== November 2004 will be 60 years old, according to the old law – I am now leaving the cent to go faster – a pension of €2,270, after the new one of €1,895. This is a difference, a loss of 375 €, always grossly minus health insurance contributions calculated. [[Call the SPÖ: Madness!]] [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: How many years of contribution?]] – 540 contribution months! Work this person longer and go with 1. She can have 572 contribution months in pension, July 2007. According to current legal situation, she would receive a pension of €2 382, after the new €2 127, difference: € 255! He works even longer, that is, 600 months of insurance, and goes with 1. November 2009 in Pension, according to current legal situation, he receives 2 487 €, after the new 2 326 €, difference: 161 €! Now tell me again that someone who works longer won't get less. Now comes another special case. Mr Walch, look at the hacker scheme! I told you last time: He has to calculate! Take the following case: Someone's going with 1. ==References====External links== ==References== February next year in pension, for example a “hackler” with 550 insurance months such as Mr Siegfried S., 59 years old, truck drivers in the brewery Schwechat. At present, according to the old law, 2 095,92 €, according to the design as originally planned, 1 758 €. – Let me talk and listen! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That doesn't count anymore!]] [[Abg. Steibl: That's snow from yesterday!]] After the reduction by the Council of Ministers, the amount of the pension was not 1 758 €, but the difference was even greater: Instead of €337 Loss is as a result 343 €! Mrs. Colleague! [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] I offer you the documents, calculated by the pension insurance, to issue with notice. That's not what we expected. I will provide you with this information. Go on, let's get it down! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have been alerted to a pro/contra discussion in a magazine on “Are the poison teeth really drawn?” As a defender, as a pro-redner, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer acts – that is legitimate! I then thought that the counter-party would take over from the union someone from the opposition, from the SPÖ or the Greens. But: No, no, no, None of us! Do you know what the contra-redner says? – He thinks the most important poison tooth remains, the injustice remains. I can't quote the whole thing, at least he says: The ASVGlers are paying for it now! Do you know who that double-redner of Mr. Molterer was? – Professor Marin, so highly esteemed and often quoted by you! Professor Marin, whom you are constantly quoting, acts as a counter-redner against your Mr. Klubobmann. I also drew attention to an interview in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”. I'll tell you who gave the interview. The first President is not here; he would immediately know who I am talking about. This interviewer first says: “The hurry” in the reform “is suspicious”. That's the headline. And then the one interviewing says: “If you consider how long you have been involved in the trade regulation, of which only one minority is affected, I must say that I can use the same right for the ASVG.” And because you so praise the second and third pillars – the person concerned says about the question of whether the capital coverage process is too risky, the following: These models are nothing but “a socialisation of the stock market risk”. Do you know who the interview partner was? I have already claimed months ago that he is probably the most recognized specialist in pension law in Austria, and Mr Khol has given me the right to do so. It is the Director-General of Pension Insurance Ewald Wetscherek, a school friend of the Federal Chancellor, and supposedly they live at the door, he is the neighbor. I can only recommend to the Federal Chancellor to ask Mr Wetscherek what is really behind it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Here's another treat. Mr Fassleven is not here now, but... – Yes, there he is. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Oh, yes!]] You had a lecture at ÖAAB; look here, you will know the foils that have been thrown on your wall. You will also know the speaker; he is a capacity you will know. It says, if you can read – Walch, listen now – at the “hackler regulation” – and so that’s less than before – he has thrown the text to the wall and explained: For men before 1. You've made it worse in January 1947, because as a turnoff new from 1 January 1947. January 2004 from the pension to a maximum of 15 percent. When I look at this film, I also understand that Mr Grillitsch has applauded and said: That's a good budget. For there he has given you, namely, the ÖAAB, the coverage rate of the federal funds with foil, and there you must have seen it: In the ASVG, this decreases to 19.9 percent in 2006 without reform; without reform, this remains the same for officials and farmers with 76.2. After the 2006 reform, the ASVG goes down again, to 28.2; with the farmers it remains the same at 76.2. If I were to thank Mr Grillitsch, I would also like to thank him for such a reform, that is no question at all. And you take note of this as an employee's representative? – Unfortunately, my time is not enough; I could also interpret the other films here. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Fassleven]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to be ready... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You don't play one professional against the other!]] What? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What is that kind of thing to play a professional group against the others?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Look, Mrs Fekter, it has already been said today, and I am happy to give you the entire memory record with your incident. There are witnesses and the like, the police were there, I can call you the names of the inspectors. There's no damage to you. Her husband came out and said, for example: I have the cement, if I can't drive it out, it'll be hard. – Immediately: Doors opened, gone out! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, no!]] So it was, there are witnesses for that. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: From 6 a.m. to 10 a.m.!]] But one thing just hurts you, and there are also witnesses for that. I repeat it again loud and clear: By hand, your husband offered to demonstrate with us on the 13th. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10337	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Mrs Fekter spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know § 58 para. 2 GOG. Please start playing the facts to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10367	Mr. Nürnberger meant that my husband would have offered on 13 March. to demonstrate. – That’s wrong! [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] On the contrary: My husband has asked me to speak with my colleague, so that another demonstration can be prevented.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10417	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10435	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Nürnberger, the invoices you have put up here may well be in the process of calculating the vote. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] But you can rest assured that our Max Walch has already worked on these invoices and that we will also make some proposals for them in the Committee's debates. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Then we change it...!]] They can help us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A speaker of the Greens today complained in the debate that the budget for security, the budget for national defence, would be increased in all these burdens that this “smart” federal government would place on the population. Ladies and gentlemen, this is, in turn, an improper link between the social policy measures and the security measures that are necessary in Austria. This Federal Government has set itself clear priorities since we Freemans joined it in 2000. [[Abg. Red: Leave blue...!]] First: It reorganises the budget – this has been done by this federal government, in the debt we had to assume from you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. Secondly, She'll secure the pensions. Thirdly, It relieves the citizen. And fourthly, It makes the necessary investments in the areas where we also need to take over the deficits of you. Ladies and gentlemen! In this way, the national defence budget is also to be seen within the framework of this budget, which has been presented. With this €1.7 billion, the state of state defense budgets in recent years is essentially held. There will be the possibility for the German army to face the new challenges that exist at international level too. It is not a question of the fact that, within the framework of this budget and in any case within this legislative period, only one cent will be involved in the procurement of the airspace surveillance aircraft, in the procurement of the Eurofighters. That is to say, the combination of the national defence budget with this procurement in a polemic way is inadmissible and does not correspond to the facts. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Rather, it is about important investments that are ensured, ladies and gentlemen: to improve the personal equipment of our soldiers, to new buildings and renovations of the accommodation, to optimize the training, to expand fixed wireless networks, to repurchase the vehicle fleet, which is essentially outdated – it is intended to be the repurchasing of 300 to 400 cars – and to ensure the introduction of the Ulan tanker, the introduction of Black Hawk helicopters and the introduction of Hercules transport aircraft. We need black-hawk helicopters for random assistance in the event of disasters, we have been in this situation many times in recent years. The same is true of the Ulan tank: this is a shooter that is designed to help our soldiers, especially in the difficult foreign use, to be able to fulfill the mission there without damage. Ladies and gentlemen! The defence budget we have this year on the table is a scarce one, but it is essentially acceptable so that the federal army can go the way into the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10512	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10530	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After my previous speaker: Please read again page 23 of Mr Finanzminister's statement, here you can read: ‘This tax reform will give Austria wings.’ Yes, “wings, ” and you called them: The "wings" are in the military budget, which is specifically under "wings", and also the tax reform, which will in advance trigger a massive wave of burden and trigger how to read in the budget: in the contribution payments, in pension measures et cetera. It is in the final effect that we are doing what my colleague Kogler has already put to the conclusion of his debates, namely this unnecessary war plane. Here, in the area of the defence resort, you have another intermediate service for what is to come later and what the tax reform with “wings” is somehow going through Austria. But what in the final effect with “wings” over Austria will and will fly will probably be these sintorous military aircraft. – This is only currently following your debate contribution. Today, the general debate has been announced, and the general debate is about general findings and general criticism. General criticism is for me – the Minister of Finance is no longer here, too, the Secretary of State is gone, therefore: Mr Minister for Economic Affairs or Minister for Transport, please do not take an example of the marketing shame of Mr Finanzminister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It was so clear in three or four places that he refers to the numbering of Members of Parliament who deny any substance and any reality that also runs contrary to what is said in the back of the table, and that he also refers not only to our Members but also to the whole population simply sold for stupid. We just don't want to let this offer that the people are sold by marketing dirt for stupid! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is why I am really personally indignant today because, in discussions, especially in private circles, because I am also one of the so-called politicians, I am able to listen again and again to what lies, what untruths, what shames the politicians are telling people, which makes them totally unbelievable. I personally resist it! One of those who unfortunately makes this prejudice anew with food again and again is the Minister of Finance: through his beautification, through his flakes, through his marketing language, which constantly conceals, veils, and puts something to the fore, which must actually be called by name! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think people would see that in today's world economic situation, we simply can't afford different things anymore. But there is always a question of distribution, and the debate on the distribution question is coming to me, please, too short: it is too short for me here in this House, and it is too short for me in this general debate. That's where you should be, Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour. They would have to distribute themselves: to the workers and also to the small and medium-sized enterprises. Read for yourself in the budget: small and medium-sized enterprises are increasingly making tax contributions, the large ones are increasingly leaving behind. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The same is true of the population, the small ones are becoming more and more burdened. They are taxed short-term, but by contributions, by pension cuts, they are more and more burdened by self-preservation, they are looted out, and the greats are able to afford it more and more. This constant redistribution already existed at Kreisky, even at Kreisky the sheer between income from wealth and income from work widened. This went even apart there, and you're accelerating or extending it. This general debate on the distribution problem needs to be dealt with much more closely! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A very clear comment to the Secretary of State – your colleague Dr. Finz is no longer here, perhaps you will still be doing so. [[State Secretary Morak: He left! Yes, I'll do it!]] I am in favour of more efficient administration, but I am also for honesty! The Secretary of State should have said: We have shifted government expenditure, we have made outlays, and these outlays do not mean that the costs are gone. It is not true that officials disappear as persons, they are, as it were, only in other forms of society. It is also not true that officials in these new, distributed forms of society are not paid for from today to tomorrow, no, they have their old salaries. But the new settings in these distributed areas are more expensive because the normal wages are according to ASVG, also with pension contributions. This is an expensive reform, which also takes over administrative tasks, and it may seem in the final effect somewhat more flexible and slightly more reactionary, but not automatically budget-relieving. – The Secretary of State would have to say that, as a matter of fact. In the same way, he would have to say that, when you come to finance offices, such signs can be read on the basis of this personnel-sparing policy there: ‘Room 37 – go to room 23’; find room 23 in front of room You're the sign: “Go to room 20”; and before Room 20 says finally: “I’m on vacation today.” Please, I’ve experienced this three times! The poor financial officials are completely confused in front of loud signs themselves. Then go to the Financial Office again and complain about it: A colleague of mine has already said that he already has the third VAT audit because the computer has either withdrawn his case, since he had paid the sales tax amounts not monthly with a deposit note, but had paid three months with a single deposit card. The computer has indicated this as a failure. Three hours a financial officer needed to check this sales tax fee. She had to sit there for three hours, and what happened after the tax check? - A plus! But the state has cost three hours of administration, based on your computer system. – That only as a small Bonmot, as a real fact, as a concrete example of having to go to work with measure and goal and not “hollodrio”. But I also see this ‘Hollodrio’ on the last foreign exchange, which I would like to address in the general debate, in which what can be read as a large, thick bar on page 19 is: “Private is better than the state! Privatisation secures jobs!" Please differentiate! In some areas it is very well done, but look at this also at the mailboxes: They're still state-owned, but now they're driving a success course. Please, there are state companies on a success course! Go to the VOEST Alpine – the Minister is already gone – this writes black numbers. In this respect, privatisation is not necessarily the golden way to jobs. I also ask for a goal and an eye. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10600	Mr Klubobmann spoke on business treatment. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10618	Mr President. I would like to say, without least appreciating the presence of the present members of the government: It is strange that the Minister of Finance now does not attend the further discussion and negotiation, just because Television has not been broadcast directly for about 30 minutes. This is a somewhat strange attitude towards the house and, above all, to the following speakers who are on the list of speakers, no matter what the party. I call for you to ensure that the Minister of Finance goes back here and attends the negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10649	Mr. Klubobmann! I think you know that it is common at first reading and that it also provides for the Rules of Procedure in such a way that this is not necessary. This will be done in the second and third readings. You know the use of the house. But I'm quite sure the Minister of Finance is in the house, and I'm going to make sure he's trying to get back here. Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10673	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A preliminary remark or, let's say better, two: Mr Nürnberger, I recognise that you gave a very moderate and serious speech at the beginning of your remarks. But I regret that at the end of the class struggle, when you said that, because of a lack of coverage, rural social security is a terrible thing and that this is unfair to the ASVG. [[Abg. Nürnberger:... not by me!]] Mr Nürnberger, you should also say that the lowest average pension in Austria has the farmers. You should also add, Mr Nürnberger, that the social network is the least claimed by the rural population. Then you should find out who is in which nursing homes at home. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Mr. Nürnberger, you're not interested, are you?]] I don't think so, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Zum Secondly, we should also add where the children of rural families will pay when they work in other occupations. These contributions are missing from the social security scheme. If so, you should point out everything! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also ask our own State Secretary, Finz, to differentiate when one calls for countries and communities to have a corresponding contribution to the reform in the administration. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you should add: There are rich communities, and there are financially weak communities. Where the financially weak communities should still be saving, someone should tell me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In principle, a budget general debate should be the culmination of parliamentary work. [[Abg. Prince: Mr Gaßner, now you should have applauded!]] Finally, it is the policy cast into figures. But it is clear – and this is unfortunate – that it repeats the same ritual: The opposition defeats the budget, the government praises the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! We should consider carefully whether it really makes sense to stay in this ritual, or whether it could also succeed, in a fair, fair and reasonable way, to work out the positive, the difficult, perhaps also the negative aspects. [[Call the SPÖ: Smell it once!]] But not so one-sided: If the opposition says something, everything is bad; and according to what comes from our side, everything is positive. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian population, regardless of which color teaching someone is assigned, simply asks the question: What about the education focus in the future? What about research expenditure? What about the stability of the budget? What about investments? What are the opportunities for businesses in Austria? Ladies and gentlemen from the left: The opportunities of businesses cannot be as bad as that. There is, for example, the AT&S company, which may not be completely unknown to you or at least one of your very high-ranking functionals: Rate of profit, very positive figures. I congratulate this and am pleased because it ensures a company and therefore very many workers have an absolutely safe job. But then you should not pretend that everything is so difficult, so complicated, so negative. Ladies and gentlemen! This does not ensure jobs! An unknown newspaper, an unknown newspaper at least on this page, advertises with the saying: [[towards SPÖ]] “Facts are opinions for some newspapers, and for others opinions are fact.” However, a quality newspaper differs from such leaves by the separation of truth and opinion. Ladies and gentlemen! What is fact? . We have the third lowest unemployment in the European Union, we have the highest employment ever measured in Austria, we have a per capita social product that exceeds the EU average by more than 15 per cent, and we clearly have the lowest youth unemployment in Europe. That is why we should also be positive about this budget and positive about this government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another word about the so-called ÖGB actions. Mr Fekter has already presented her problem area. I'm currently on the run with Mobbing. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] In my community, the ÖGB branch of Wels has risen to send a leaflet to every household, to carry it out and to visit the people personally. It points out what is disastrous, and it is also asked to make a mood against Mayor Jakob Auer. My private telephone number is also printed and also that of the municipality. I say quite frankly to you: I'm not asking an ÖGB officer to stop this. I regret an organization that has to use such means! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10805	The next speaker was Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10823	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Auer, I assume that you, as mayor, are also responsible for your responsibility as a member of this House, and that you are also acting towards your citizens. That's why it won't be a problem for you, I think. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the Minister of Finance has tried to deceive us of the fact that it is a non-social budget in accordance with the motto “Statt Reforming for Workers”. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps you should remember that the welfare state is the modern form of solidarity. It is about transforming what used to be a grace. This gives people dignity and freedom. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, are now trying to pass a social disassembly of the relevant committees by putting them into a budget accompanying law. The Federal Minister yesterday, as he said, brought some swift sayings. One was: “The tax reform gives Austrian wings.” – He probably meant that the budget gave Austrian wings, and thus played on the Eurofighters. The second saying was: ‘Entrepreneurship is thinking culture’. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! What, please, is workerism in the sense of Karl-Heinz Grassers when he deals with employee and employee interests in this way? I'll ask you that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next quick saying: “Our goal is to save €3.2 billion in federal administration alone during this legislative period. I say: Get away with the bacon!” – Ladies and gentlemen! Who is the bacon the Minister of Finance is talking about? If it is the employees in the public service, are it the officials who are here called bacon? I consider such statements by a Minister of Finance of this Republic to be scandalous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As we are currently on the subject – a previous speaker has already mentioned it – of the reduction in the public service: Unfortunately, Minister Bartenstein preferred to leave the plenary room. I'm very sorry. I would have liked to refer him to the Federal Finance Act 2003 and 2004, in which, once again, under the chapter safeguarding youth training, € 0, but on the other hand, bridge aid for former public servants is provided for Euromillions. What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? – They drive people out of public service into unemployment, and unemployment insurance pays. This is your policy, which is a humane policy that we can't logically agree with. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] It is also so full of family kindness. At the same time as your policy of manoeuvring FLAF into a minute, you decide to change shop opening times, non-social forms of working time, of which thousands of employees are mainly affected by parents. [[Abg. Steibl: What does one have to do with the other?]] And that's where you talk about family policy in the budget speech. This is unscrupulous, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner is not here. I would have liked to ask him how serious his call should be. He said during my speech yesterday, in which I asked him whether we would not be able to decide this pension reform until autumn, if the measures were to take effect only from 2004 onwards: “We can do that!” Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Now I'm asking you what to say to your clubman. Does that mean that it is possible to remove the pension reform from the budget accompanying law and actually negotiate serious here in the house, as is the case with Mr Dolinschek and Mr Colleague? Walch said to the “standard ” and also did not Mr Scheuch exclude it? How can you stand for your words? What can you ask for? If this is even said by your clubman, then you would have to agree with us that this pension reform, this expropriation action by the Federal Government, has not lost anything in the budget accompanying law, but that it would have to be extranegotiated to accept the offer of the social partners, and also the call of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who also recommends that this reform be postponed by autumn and that it should lead to proper, decent and detailed treatment in order to achieve a fair and socially just reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10893	The next speaker was Mrs Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10911	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address briefly the comments made by Mrs Silhavy, who spoke of the welfare state, which is inviolable. – I say: That's all your opinion! However, one can also cross the welfare state, as in Germany, and one can see that there is now a Social Democratic Federal Chancellor who has to cut down vehemently and, for example, the unemployment benefit has to be drastically reduced. [[Abg. Eder: We are in Austria!]] This is probably a sign of how to cross a welfare state. And I also say that there would be no one in Austria to take such measures as a Social Democratic Federal Chancellor and Social Democratic Finance Minister in Germany. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: In Germany, however, conservative politics was made years ago – and this must now be extinguished!]] However, I would like to return to the budget in Austria. I am aware that this budget has key points that are to be discussed in a broad way. But one cannot be discussed away, namely that it contains the largest tax reform of the Second Republic. [[Abg. Eder: This is the error!]] The biggest tax reform! Even if the opposition does not want to be true, many Austrians ask for it every day. Believe me, I was a lot on the road, with workers, with entrepreneurs, and my reputation as a former State Secretary is closely linked to this tax reform, because I also promised the entrepreneurs in Austria, of which 45 000 entrepreneurs in tourism, that this tax reform is coming. Many Austrians, however, wonder why this has not happened long ago. And I answer them with another question: Why has this not already happened before EU accession? At the time, we have called for the freedom of movement to do the so-called homework, namely to make Austria EU-fit, to make EU-fit businesses, to protect businesses from having to outsource to low-cost countries, which has now happened. This is the Social Democratic manuscript in Austria, carried out by a socialist German Chancellor and also Finance Minister, then still Lacina. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But what did the Minister of Finance do before joining the EU at that time instead of supporting businesses? – He has this untold 13th. Sales tax date introduced, which is now being abolished thanks to this reform. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The Chamber of Commerce has called for this!]] – That was not the Chamber of Trustees! I was a Member of this House and I spoke against it and voted against it. Thank God we are now able to do this! However, I would also like to say that we liberals have already enshrined this tax reform in the 2000 Government Convention: the abolition of the 13th. Sales tax dates, the relief of non-compulsory profits when reinvested, and, above all, the discharge of the lower income groups. Here too, the Austrians are quite right to ask the question, including: Why didn't this happen earlier? Why was this not possible in August of last year, as well as the Carinthian head of state as well as our President Thomas Prinzhorn and our Minister Gorbach vehement have called for a tax reform, and indeed also in order to avoid the price of the zero deficit? At that time, however, this was apparently not opportunistic. That is why I am all the more pleased that this government team, first and foremost our vice-president Herbert Haupt, has succeeded in implementing the largest tax reform of the Second Republic. Even if you don't want to do it, I can only say it again: This also relieves the beneficiaries of the lowest incomes. Professor Van der Bellen confirmed this today. [[Abg. Eder: About 20 cents!]] I think my speaking time is over, Mr President. I am so disciplined and therefore quit.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11016	This is very kind, ladies and gentlemen, but it is a voluntary time limit. Mr Brosz spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11040	Mr President. Klubobmann Cap pointed out earlier that both the Finance Minister and the competent State Secretary were not present. Two speeches have already been made, but the two gentlemen are still not there. I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that, according to comments on the Rules of Procedure, it is customary for the ministers responsible to be present in dealing with government documents, and the first reading of the Federal Finance Act is, of course, a government proposal. In this context, according to § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure the request to assist the Minister of Finance in this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11073	Mr President, it is your right, of course, to ask for this. I asked the Minister of Finance to come here; he will be here in 3 to 5 minutes. - I mean, we're gonna be able to bridge this time. [[Call the Greens: Vote! Vote!]] Request You're voting? – Of course, please. I ask the honourable Members to take a seat. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Did all take a seat? - Yes, that is the case. There is a request concerning the acquisition of Mr Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – Would you like a census, or do you agree if I decide that this is the minority? [[Call the Greens: Tell them!]] – Yes, numbering, please. Mr. Citizen will help me count. You start here, I'll start there. – There are 46 standing and 63 sitting MEPs. [[Abg. Scheibner: Gusenbauer wasn't there!]] – This rejects the request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The next speaker was Mrs Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11145	Ladies and gentlemen! I note that strong applause sounded for the majority to consider it unnecessary for the Minister of Finance or the State Secretary for Finance to attend this debate. Obviously, then, it seems that some columns still need to be recalculated and narrated or some formulations improved, and that takes its time. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to refer to the statements made by Mr Grasser, the Minister of Finance, who has stated in his budget speech – which always sounds very good and is very similar to certain ideologies – that it is possible to free companies from shackles, to demand as little taxes as possible – I am now going to cut something – and to delete as many legal regulations as possible, because this would be a corresponding incentive for investment. Now I am quite right to the Minister in some areas. Rules in the field of trade regulations are already overdue, but any innovation is blocked on the ground of inter-branch disputes. That's why you fall into other areas. However, if we are talking about freeing companies from shackles or reducing taxes, it is still a matter of ensuring that at least the existing regulations are complied with, and this will require some control. Ladies and gentlemen! In the last budget debate – I can still remember – there was something like a debate about social fraud in the future. Now Minister Böhmdorfer has given an authentic definition of this persecution of social fraud in a “press hour”. This looks more or less like sending a controller to anyone in the hospital. On the other hand, controls in other areas are more than inadequate. I'm just thinking about how much tax evasion has become a matter of law. There are convictions before German courts for non-registration of road users, of employees in the road industry. There will not be control, ladies and gentlemen, but the state and the general public will escape taxes in millions! Obviously none of you are hurting. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You obviously do not want to pursue this social fraud, you do not want to pursue these large-scale tax evasions in certain sectors. No, the entrepreneurs may also be freed from the shackles that they have to report to their employees and employees. I have to suspect that if I listen to these discussions longer. Ladies and gentlemen! This means that the State is avoiding taxes in millions, which we need more than urgent for the social security and pension system. Then we would not have to cut into and reduce the rights of people involved in minimum incomes. Good entrepreneurs also suffer from what black sheep employ in the industry, and good entrepreneurs are also forced down to a competition. Ladies and gentlemen! If you commit yourself to controls in these areas, then you would regain a bit of credibility in terms of economic policy and tax policy as a whole! [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To that end, we need a network of control stations for heavy traffic across Austria and not just a model project and the promise of some more that was made in the campaign, but we do not know how many of them will be left at the end. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, a sentence on the course of the debate. I have to say, as a person who is interested in history and who deals with the history of the 20th century. I always get cold over the back of the century when trade unions are blackmailed in a certain way and when trade unions are hottened. Ladies and gentlemen! Take this very dangerous path! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11197	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. Short debate on the response to the question 42/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11218	We come to a brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the number of orders 42/AB. The above-mentioned answer is already distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. I would point out that the Federal Minister for the Interior is today represented by the Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat. For the start of the debate, I give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Maier. You've got this for 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11249	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I am somewhat annoyed that today, not the competent Federal Minister, who bears political responsibility for the implementation of the Reporting Act, is sitting here on the government bank, but you, the Federal Minister of Smoking, are. I therefore ask you not to take the statements that come from me personally, because responsible for the implementation of the Reporting Act, namely for the unlawful execution of the Announcement Act, is exclusively the Federal Minister for Internal Affairs Dr. Ernst Strasser. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I've broken my head over it for a long time: What did this Federal Minister Strasser actually think when he passed two support regulations under the Federal Budget Act? – One said that was not his idea, that was the idea of the Minister of Finance to achieve higher income by selling reporting data from Austrian citizens! On the other hand, others have said: That's not true, because Straster knows exactly what he's doing! The best way to understand this was by the post chess player who was specifically set up by him. – And I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that Federal Minister Strasser is solely responsible for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] What is it about the implementation of the Reporting Act? – It is a question of making it very clear that the two support regulations are intended to increase the number of queries from the Central Reporting Register; they are to be tripled within two years. And now, of course, this is the question: Who has access to these central reporting data? – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen, there is a very clear regulation in the Reporting Act: Only those persons who regularly need reporting information on the exercise or enforcement of rights or claims shall be entitled to a question. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we know very well: Austria has a legal culture, we have the ordinary courts responsible for the enforcement of rights. But to whom has this questioning authority been granted? - To collection offices! And now one should explain to me whether collection offices in Austria, according to the case law of the Supreme Court, are responsible for asserting rights and rights under the Commercial Code. Now, if these collection offices get these access rights, you know what happens? - You're looking for a debtor. Then they have his reporting data, and then an employee of the collection office with a sign in front of the house of this debtor, and on this sign says: Mr Müller owes us 100 000 €! – That’s exactly what it is to be feared: this reporting data is misused. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to give you another example: In Austria, professional detectives are not responsible for the enforcement of claims or rights. This is contrary to the Austrian legal order. Just imagine one thing: As we know, a professional detective gets this access to the reporting data – unlawfully! – and then he gets an assignment from a man. This man is looking for his ex-wife. The ex-wife left him because she was beaten by him – and all of a sudden this ex-husband gets the reporting data he would not get otherwise, just from the professional detective! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! These are exactly the problems we have identified in the Data Protection Council when it came to the issue of the Reporting Act, which we have identified in the debate about the new Reporting Act, but our arguments have not yielded. You've decided, and I'll hold on to this: Federal Minister Strasser is unlawfully implementing this federal law because he grants rights of inquiry to persons who do not fulfil the requirements of the Notification Act. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] On the grounds of the parliamentary question, Federal Minister Strasser said that it would be all right. He thinks if someone has the questioning authority, then at least the first and the last name must be – and now it comes! – the date of birth and an additional feature, an additional component of the reporting data, and finally the date of birth. Ladies and gentlemen! What Federal Minister Strasser told you about this is false! I'll hold this. The answer to the question comes from the 17th century. March. It has already been known that Austrian companies have advertised to the Central Reporting Register without notice of the date of birth. At that time, there were already several procedures in the Data Protection Commission – and also in the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs. Do you think we're being fooled, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[He-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There, Federal Minister Strasser said the untruth, against better knowledge, and he justified the unlawful award of it. [[Call the ÖVP:Language!]] The responsibility for this – I say it again – is borne by Federal Minister Strasser alone! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you once again: I'm used to being a Member that I'm not going to lie. If I ask a question, I would like a correct answer. This answer is incorrect, and I would like to stress once again: Not you, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, are meant to be, but here Federal Minister Strasser would have to sit in order to justify himself! We have further concerns. At present, a regulation is under review, namely the Central Association Register. Mrs. Federal Minister, perhaps you can send Mr. Strasser the following: We do not hope that there will also be such a regulation under the Federal Budget Act, namely that there is the possibility to sell and reuse the association data accordingly. I'll hold on to this. This would not only be illegal, but also unconstitutional. I would like to insist on this, because it must be in the interest of all Austrians that data security is guaranteed. Data security is not guaranteed by this Federal Minister. We do not trust this Federal Minister. We know about his recruitments, which have happened on the verge of the abuse of office, and I say again: The Federal Minister has to ensure legal enforcement on the basis of the federal laws. [[Abg. May. Molterer: He does!]] We Socialists strongly reject data chess and data trading in the described form! Once is payday – and for Federal Minister Dr. Strasser will be at the latest on the election day of this payday.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11378	The Federal Minister for the Interior will be present in a Member State of the European Union – in concrete terms, Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat will provide information. In accordance with Art. 73 para. 3 of the Federal Constitution may entrust a minister to the attached State Secretary – but he does not have such a one – or a Federal Minister with his representation. The Federal Minister for the Interior has, in accordance with Art. 73 para. 3 of the Federal Constitution Mrs Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat mandated to represent him. It has notified its submission of an opinion. She'll get the floor. Her speech, Mrs Federal Minister, should not be more than 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11414	Thank you very much. Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First, let me apologize to Mr Strasser: It is located in Brussels with the first Council of Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs, which is taking place together with the “extension ministers”, i.e. the ministers of the ten enlargement candidates concerned, or now also the Member States already included, which are very important concerns, including the asylum and migration regime and the subject of the secure EU external borders. It is therefore very important that our Minister of the Interior, the Minister of the Interior of a country with a large part of these external borders, participate there, and I therefore ask you to prefer with me and the reply by me. At the very beginning, however, I decided to reject your claim, Mr Maier, that Minister of the Interior, Strasser, told you the untruth in replying to your parliamentary question. I'm sure I won't let that sit on him! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Very briefly on the matter: The Federal Act, which amends the Notification Act 1991, the Volkstallungsgesetz 1980 and the General Social Security Act, established the basis for the establishment of the Central Registration Register. At the same time, the reporting authorities were transferred to the mayors in the cities where Federal Police Directorates exist. The Report Act Enforcement Regulation enabled the real-life operation of this registry after the test operation of the Central Reporting Register. Of course, all the provisions already regulated for the establishment and completion of the Central Reporting Register are reflected in this Regulation, especially with regard to the possibility of the online survey. In particular, all data protection provisions of the Data Protection Act 2000 have been taken into account. The regulation was drafted in close consultation with the Federal Chancellery/Constitutional Service, with the cooperation of the Data Protection Commission. It is specifically provided that all queries and other uses, such as changes or transmissions from the Central Reporting Register, are recorded in full. Moreover, on-line surveys are provided for a much more stringent regime than has ever been standardised for reporting information. Online surveys may only take place for certain purposes provided for in the law, namely for the exercise of working rights or claims. So far – including among socialist ministers of the interior – only any justification or justification had to be provided for reporting. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. In 2003, 706 applications for online access rights were approved, such as lawyers, banks, insurance companies or collection offices. In each individual case, the application shall verify the credibility of the statement of reasons submitted. In addition, any suspicion of a non-lawful use of the granted query authorisation will be followed immediately; two access rights have been withdrawn so far. Administrative charges should be paid for online surveys as well as for all other reporting information. This is not a “data sale”, as was often claimed, but a contribution to the partial coverage of the administrative costs for this activity. Administrative charges are not a specific feature of the notification law, but are also provided for in any other administrative area under the general administrative procedure laws. Unfortunately, throughout the discussion, it is always forgotten that the Central Registration Register is a public register not only within the meaning of the Data Protection Act, but above all within the meaning of the EU Data Protection Directive. The data ‘main residence’ and ‘last head office’ are public data, i.e. those data are intended for public information and are therefore accessible accordingly. The listed novelle and the Report Law Enforcement Regulation established the basis for a modern, citizen-friendly and at the same time economical administration. In addition to a significant reduction in the administrative burden in the reporting sector, the use of the one-stop-shop principle could be achieved, but above all a significant reduction or avoidance of administrative routes for people who need reporting information. The Central Reporting Register will not only be the hub for the entire eGovernment in the future, but is already a model for innovative management. Finally, let me say something about this. I have also been concerned about what is actually possible online at queries from this registration register when dealing with this request. If you have the name and date of birth of the person concerned, you will learn no more and no less than its principal residence or last residence in Austria – something that you could experience until recently in every official address book in each post office. That is why I really cannot understand the excitement you have here today.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11490	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. Mr Kößl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11512	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! To the address of Mr Maier: I have 30 years of SPÖ interior minister behind me, and there is, I think, no epoch in which there has been more party politics in the interior than at that time. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: You survived!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaál: You survived them, the SPÖ!]] Mr Maier, yesterday we had the first reading, today we have a short debate – and I have heard nothing new from you. The question you sent to Federal Minister Dr. Strasser was answered in detail, and I even wonder why we are here today and have this short debate. There is no reason at all to be suspicious of the Reporting Law! Our Reporting Act – and I said that yesterday – was excellently innovative in 2001. It is modern, forward-looking, citizen- and service-oriented. There is nothing to do with data protection at all. Nor is it true – which has been misrepresented and falsely claimed – that the Data Protection Commission has filed concerns in some way. The concerns and concerns raised in 2001 have now been taken over by one. There is no glass man, nor any violation of fundamental rights. I beg you, don't be insecure and don't paint the devil on the wall! There's no devil in the registration law! The central reporting register – which Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat clearly presented – is a public register. It can be requested from the head office of a person. On the on-line surveys, which have been received again and again and also received yesterday: First of all, we need a permit, a permit. There are precise provisions for obtaining a permit. It has also been said that one needs the first and last name, the date of birth and another characteristic. If you have this data, there can be no data protection violations in the personal area! If my data are passed on, then I have the right to verify this abuse. Since the whole query process, the mode is comprehensible and logged, there is no reason at all to believe that, when an abuse occurs, there are no measures, no sanctions in this area. And that is the withdrawal of the authority by the Federal Ministry of the Interior. The document states that there have been around 10,000 cause-related inspections, with two abuses detected, and that is exactly two abuses too much, I give you the right. But these two in 10,000 are negligible, because we know very well: If someone wants to violate a law or commit an abuse, he will do the same. You can't always stop that. Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is no uncontrolled access for private individuals to these reporting data. There are precise legal bases. This is already enshrined in § 1 of the Reporting Act. All queries are recorded and comprehensible. In conclusion: Mr Maier, you will probably have read the "Indiscrete AK" in the "Economic Sheet". According to this article, the Chamber of Labour has, following an appeal procedure, announced data from the applicant following a call for tender for a new internet appearance. – If that is true, then the measures provided for include the withdrawal of this right. If you sit in the glass house, you shouldn't throw stones!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11573	I call Mr Parnigoni. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11592	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Of course, you have a bit of a problem today because you are not familiar with this matter. But even though Federal Minister Strasser is in Brussels, it remains – no, no, I do not dispute – that he has said the untruth in the reply to this question, for he has replied to Question No 28 that such a question is only possible if the first name, surname, the date of birth and an additional feature are announced. [[Interim remark by Federal Minister for Smoking-Kallat]] The fact is that before answering this request, companies, such as PROINFORM or ADVOCAT, have already been massively advertised by the fact that you can enter the Central Register without mentioning the date of birth. As a result, the answer to this question by Minister Strasser was to say the untruth. I want to keep that clear once and for all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call:Don't vote]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: It doesn't get any more right if you repeat it!]] Mein Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: It is also very interesting to note that Mr Strasser, in the explanations of the regulation he has adopted, stated that advertising measures should be taken to increase, for example, the number of queries from the Central Reporting Register in order to make money accordingly. In 2002, he himself recorded this in his response to the request, he took almost €700 000 by data trading. After all, there have been more than 300 000, namely the 363,000 surveys, and not – a moment! – to officials, but just to lawyers and so on. [[Abg. Kößl: Data trading has also existed before! Report requests have always been made!]] [[Abg. Kößl: Rightful!]] The objective pursued by Mr Strasser is, in fact, to add up his budget as a data dealer – at the expense of the rule of law and the fundamental right to data protection! We, of course, strongly reject this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! One more thing: It's talking about control. In reply to the question, Mr Strasser said that 10,000 checks had been carried out in 2002. . I do not want to talk about the 18 million surveys from the field of officials, but if I assume that 10,000 of the 363,000 surveys were controlled, that means that three officials – 20 minutes for such a check – would have had to check these surveys for a whole year. [[Abg. The officials are a completely different track!]] So I'm afraid that's what you're saying, Mr Kößl or Mrs Minister. Ask the Federal Minister where he has these three officials who have carried out these 10,000 checks. That's what I'm looking at, if that could ever be true! Mr Kößl! Since 1945 – I can tell you that – there have never been so many illegal personnel – how did you say? – like the “devil”, you said – as in the era Strasser. [[Abg. Kößl: You haven't seen them before at a SPÖ Minister of the Interior! I have 30 years of socialist interior minister behind me! Don't come in like this!]] So many illegal occupations have only occurred in the era of Strasser! You can write that in the main book! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also against this procedure that we will take every effort to support every colleague who is being treated by Mr Strasser in this way. You can be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that we will do everything we can to ensure that the provisions of the Data Protection Council are fulfilled in this case too, because the rule of law and the fundamental right to data protection must be something worth in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11747	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Mainoni. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11765	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Maier said at the end of his speech: Once it's payday. – I can handle it smoothly as a threat. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Exactly!]] If this is the parliamentary style of Parliamentary Mayer and the Social Democrats, I think he could comment on it again. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But since we're talking about payday. Before I go into the content, I come to a speciality of Mr Maier. He's a question specialist. Ladies and gentlemen, only in this legislative period, that is, since 20. Mr Maier asked 71 questions for four and a half months. [[Demonstrative applause and bravo noise at SPÖ.]] You'll stop applauseing, just wait. For 71 requests – for example, this request contains 30 questions – this would mean 2 100 questions in four and a half months alone. – I refer to this, ladies and gentlemen, as a classic case of abuse of the National Council Business Regulation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is not only an abuse, but also an enormous cost, Mr Maier. With your questioning flood, you are certainly the most expensive national councillor here in the house. I guarantee you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the SPÖ as well as calls to the liberals.]] In my opinion, these questions are primarily for the purpose of getting involved in the media. That means that the taxpayer pays with millions the PR of Mr Maier – nothing else! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] I have, of course, also made the effort, not only the XXII in this regard. The legislative period, but also the XXI. This is the first time that we have been able to see the legislative period. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - You're kidding me! Do you know how many questions Mr Maier made in the XXI. Is there a legislative period? – Counted 508 requests! Still good? [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] All right! If we take another 30 questions, then there are 15 000 questions that have been asked in three years. If you, who now praise here, really believe that this is serious, then good evening! That's all I can say! Content: Mr Maier, as well as many Greens, see, of course, “abuse” when dealing with data. – However, the data protection sometimes comes to a perpetrator protection, if you do so, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point this out in this connection. And as far as this notification law is concerned, we talked about it yesterday. Another case of abuse of the Rules of Procedure: Yesterday, at a first reading, it was discussed in Parliament, but no, there is still a question to be discussed today – although you know that Mr Bundesminister Strasser cannot be here at all! This too is a case of abuse of the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, because it does not serve the purpose of this standard. The registration law is modern, good, transparent and above all also unbureaucratic. Each request is logged; the system saves everything. With his questioning flood, Mr Maier probably costs more than the President of Austria. You should consider in the future whether you really want to continue this waste of money!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11864	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Stoisits. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11882	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Know how many requests the 18 representatives of the Freedom Party have made in the last five months – we all get the same pay!: about 7 000 € gross, so that the listeners know this – not one! Not a single request in five and a half months! [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] [[Calls to the liberals.]] If I remember correctly – but I can't say that now, but I can see Parliament's post relatively carefully – there has also been no single initiative request from FPÖ Members. Every now and then, I have to say, sometimes there are still members of the FPÖ in plenary. But now I could ask myself – then to the comments of Mr Mainoni: What do they pay for? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Colleague! Because we make laws! You're asking, we're making laws!]] The legal rights you are entitled to only be very moderate. However, ladies and gentlemen, this has only come to my mind because Mr Mainoni here is constantly accusing Members of the National Council, in this case today, Mr Maier, of 'abuse of the Rules of Procedure'. The Rules of Procedure are a law. The allegation of ‘abuse of the Rules of Procedure’ would mean that it is a breach of a law and is therefore a very serious accusation. All in all, I would like to relativize what we have seen today in the course of the debate, especially in the Federal Finance Act, first reading, in relation to the democratic concept of individual Members, as regards the rights of parliamentarians, as far as workers' rights are concerned, including rights of members of associations – and, above all, what is called strike law in Austria, and what has already been fought on rights for centuries. [[Abg. Kößl: Colleague! On the matter!]] There is obviously a great need for training, Mr President of the National Council. I would like to ask you, Mr Mainoni, whether you, Mr President, might not be able to consider whether there could still be some form of information for colleagues as far as their own rights and obligations are concerned. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I now come to the question of the illegal execution of the Reporting Act. In order not to repeat what the previous speakers and the Federal Minister have already said, I would like to say: This whole matter with the notification law and the procedure of the Ministry of the Interior, in particular that of Mr Strasser, sheds the very light on the activity of the State, now represents in the case by the Federal Government, which I may, under some circumstances, describe with the proverb, which is very often used: Money is ruining the character, because it's always about money. It's always about making money. [[Abg. Kößl: This remains for the communities! That's an administrative burden!]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: You don't know the law!]] I'm putting it together in my division now: In this whole effort to get as much money as possible into the Ministry of the Interior, it is completely forgotten that this is a matter of highly sensitive data that citizens have a right to know their protection needs by the Minister of the Interior, who is the highest data protector in the field of the Central Reporting Register, as well. [[Abg. Kößl: Do not be insecure! It's not true what you're saying! Don't talk about business! That's an administrative burden!]] It should not be the opposite by doing business. I have the suspicion – where is my colleague Maier? – that it has this banal background. In this greed for money, the sensitive data of the citizen and the citizen is treated in a mistake that parliamentary initiatives and not just a questioning are really urgently needed to stop this. And that's what I'm talking about! That is why we do not only support today's request. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I also very much regret that Mr Strasser is currently in another EU Member State, namely today, because today the first reading of the Federal Finance Act is taking place, where I am actually going to accept – and then I am going to take the floor again, Mr President, I have already announced – that this is interesting for all the heads of the department when the People's Office is doing this first reading. [[Abg. Kößl: It is also very important there! That's the right to asylum!]] I'm a little surprised. But this is the same in my statements to the Federal Finance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12029	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12051	I will resume the negotiations on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Tancsits. I'd like to set the speaking time to him for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12072	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I will return to the general debate on the double budget in 2003 and 2004, which obviously has to be a good one, because most of the opposition's speakers are dealing with things that do not happen directly or at all in the budget, such as the purchase of the Eurofighters, which is known to be budget effective only in 2007. After 30 years of socialist expenditure policy, these 2003/2004 budgets return to the principles of the social market economy, where I first have to draw up revenue to be able to spend it again from a very social point of view – and to further develop and maintain our good social system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to do this on the basis of examples. To the revenue page: There have also been opposition speakers who have expressed their surprise at the fact that expenditure is facing revenue. - That's good. For example, the achievements in the current account, for example, as mentioned above, in wage and income tax. That's natural if you're on the 1st. May 2003 has the highest level of employment we have ever recorded in this country in May: If, as Mr Nürnberger explains to us, these workers have completed each time with more than 1.5 percent of wage increases, it is obvious that revenue from this title increases. This means that the social system can be safeguarded. This is the same in the state as in any farm. In the state-owned industry, which is still in our memory, more has been spent on a permanent basis, and then, for example, not only tens of thousands of jobs have been lost, but over the night have been hitchhiked, and the working pensions of the steel workers have not only been reduced to 100 percent. This is the result of a non-social issue policy that lives on pump and at the expense of future generations. – This is not our approach! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Eder: Let's get rid of all the pensions, that's the easiest!]] With this budget presented by the Federal Government and the Minister of Finance, we place other priorities, such as the continuation of the programme for the disabled, the increase in the amount of care paid at the highest levels. Mr. Vice-Chanzler mentioned that over €5 billion of family spending will be a clear priority, as will the continuation of our government policy in 2000 on child benefits. Another focus is the discharge of low-income persons with an annual income of 14 500 €. This means that 200 000 Austrians are more subject to zero taxation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] A total of 2.4 million Austrians then pay – 70 percent of them are employees, 30 percent pensioners, some self-employed and some rural forces fall under – no taxes. – This is a clear focus. Coming to a conclusion, ladies and gentlemen: Solidarity is not a one-way road! If, for social reasons, 2.4 million Austrians – for example, by means of minimum wages and other programmes, we will do everything they can to achieve an extra earnings – do not pay a tax, I ask: Who pays the tax? – I say again: Solidarity is not a one-way road! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Eder: Tancsits pays the tax!]] We will ensure that the workers in our country are not charged over a fee. Therefore, the reference to the Federal contribution is also a reference to the other bag. - We really want to relieve!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12155	President. — The debate is closed. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12173	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! After the discussion so far, I have been given the impression that the representatives of the government parties and also the members of the Federal Government are confusing the House's plenary session with a stage on which a piece is presented, which has nothing to do with reality and nothing at all about the concern of the people in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] That is why this is also true, Mr Federal Minister, because you are talking about reality. Perhaps you haven't noticed this in your statement yet, or maybe you haven't looked through the budget so much yet, that can be already, but the reality is unfortunately another. In fact, it is tried to sell with fleeting sayings a burden budget enormously as a benefit to humans. Keywords: Pension reform and new self-esteem for people. There can still be as smooth sayings about it, such as: “ Reduce taxes, ” do not deceive. A burden budget remains a burden budget – whether you want it or not, ladies and gentlemen from the government parties! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You will not succeed, because the people of our country have enough of this policy, which is directed against it, a policy that destroys social cohesion sensitive and sustainable. Ladies and gentlemen! We discussed health policy briefly in the early days of the "Current Hour" and discussed the example of the new self retention as a financial instrument at the expense of those who benefit from health care. I have already made very clear why other self-holds have neither a steering effect nor a financial instrument. Ladies and gentlemen! How little this federal government clearly deals with this issue is clearly shown by an interview of 13. ==References====External links== She was asked by the “Small Newspaper” on the subject of “self - retention”, and among other things, the question was asked – I quote –: Question from the “Small Newspaper”: “They want to strengthen cost-consciousness with self-retaining. Without wanting to be provocative: Should the sick consider whether to visit the doctor in future?’ Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat said: “No, but if the system is transparent, X-raying is not made pointlessly twice. That's where the patient will say: Hoppla, do I need that?" Mrs. Federal Minister! If this were to be your statement, it would require that doctor and patient have the same level of knowledge. – I think that is certainly not given, and that is why they will comment on their own. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! A seven-liner was worth the topic of health policy to the Federal Minister for Finance. Although concepts have been announced, I miss them, except for the very clear announcement – that is what you have to say – of new restraints. That was really clear. That was already the morning discussion. Finally, you can say: Except for fees in the form of new self-preserves, not much has been done! Mr Bucher stressed today in his speech that the government must also take responsibility for what it does not do. – Mr Bucher, if she had only taken on this responsibility, then people in our country would have been spared a lot! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12265	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12283	Mr President. Dear members of the government! High house! A good day in Parliament would be a day when the opposition would cooperate constructively and act accordingly. Unfortunately, that's just a vision! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] A reply to the statement by my previous speaker, Mr Lacner: The politics of red and green is characterized by fear and panic – and far from actual reality. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Many untruths are also being spread in the area of women's policy. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised at certain statements and accusations. Of course, it would be nice if we had more money for Austria's women. But how, from where? – We had a lot of old loads to take over due to your failure. It is the failure of the SPÖ finance ministers who have a responsibility for the current financial situation. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Your arguments have already been taken away...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] A responsible policy is still an unknown being for you today. What are you doing? – You throw the money on the street! Hundreds of millions of € cost to paralyze businesses and to paralyze public transport last Tuesday. [[Abg. May. Trunk: This is democracy!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] Linz University Professor Schneider estimates that the strike action of the ÖGB, which has been approved and even supported by SPÖ and Greens, has caused a national economic damage of over €500 million. That's a lot of money! 500 million € a day means an average annual salary for 35 000 women! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] This means that an entire annual salary could be paid to all single parents in Vienna. The money of a strike day could also mean an additional monthly wage for 400,000 single parents, for mothers with children. – That, ladies and gentlemen of the op-position, would be real social and women’s policy! [[Abg. Parnigoni: What does Neugebauer say about this?]] On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Do you know that with the money of a strike day, you could build 200 kindergartens and create a multitude of childcare places? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Csörgits.]] Wouldn't that be an alternative, Mr President? – But Unfortunately, you're not here, you're probably just at coffee and cake. Much could also be achieved with a fraction of the cost of strikes for education and training as well as for the promotion of women's projects. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: New elections cost more!]] But you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, prefer to have a class struggle. They deliberately insure the Austrians with untruths instead of making constructive women's policies. I could talk for a long time about what has been achieved, and you know what improvements we have achieved by this government in the women's field. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We also see impulses for women in the budget accompanying legislation. In child rearing time, pensionable periods are increased from 18 months to 24 months. This means that, instead of 180 months, women only have to be in employment for more than 132 months. This offers a great advantage for women who do not have continuous employment careers, and this is also an important step towards safeguarding and self-sufficiency for women of old age. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] The absence of unemployment insurance and the reduction of additional wage costs also give the labour market a great opportunity for older workers. You really can't join these measures! [[Abg. Hagenhofer: Where?]] Let me conclude with a comment from the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten”: You can't spend more time than you take. This applies to any household, pension insurance and the State. Many do not want to take note of these wisdoms. – Like you, ladies and gentlemen of Red and Green! [[Abg. Hagenhofer: It's just a question where we save!]] We have recognized this and will certainly continue to act upon it in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12455	The honourable Member is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Stoisits. The clock is set to 5 minutes, as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12473	Mr. Grasser, I am glad that I have the honour of being present when I speak, because we have missed you for an hour. Welcome back to the plenary! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Yesterday, when you spoke to us, of course, I listened very attentively – I confess that I do not always do so, but if you give your budget speech, I listen very carefully. [[Abg. Eder: This is a budget reading!]] I noticed one of the formulations that no one has mentioned yet. It is not about remarks like “the bacon must go,” but it was something quite remarkable. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That was the phone company!]] You, Federal Minister Grasser, needed a new formulation yesterday, or variant or division for “cut” because you said that this was “a weakening of additional expenditure”. [[General hustle and bustle.]] This language picture is already remarkable during these 80 minutes you spoke to us yesterday, because it really expresses a lot. I admit, ladies and gentlemen, that, although I have been a member of the National Council for a long time, budget debates are always strenuous for me because there is a lot to talk about and you have a high level of specialist knowledge to follow, especially when the numbers are quoted. Now I also agree that it is a bit more complicated for me with the euro, because I am still at times inclined to convert. Thank God there is this written copy of which you, Mr. Finanzminister, were not very divergent yesterday, and it contains very remarkable sentences, which can then be read in the ‘reality of the protocol’. For example, the sentence – now I quote from the Stenographic Protocol – says: “We are also concerned with the credibility of politics. ... Too often, one has been “abused by the people’s trust in this sensitive question” – in relation to the pension debate now. It's about maintaining the generation contract. It goes...” and so on. Indeed, it is a sensitive question that it is about; you are absolutely right. And it may also be that, in part, you are right in saying that too often “in this sensitive question, the trust of the population has been abused”, although I would not say that so dramatically now. But I'm from the opposition, and you're the Federal Minister, you can see it differently. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: No, he is the Finance Officer of the Federal Chancellor!]] Federal Minister Grasser, if it is so that you are right, then, I must say, the plans from the Budgetary Support Act on Pension Reform are, that is, what you said yesterday in your speech about the Federal Financial Act, in the budget speech, exactly the opposite of a sensitive procedure and a sensitive course of action. - I don't really know myself now. What's the sensitive now? – Do you describe cuts, restrictions that have happened in the past and which have misused confidence, as a sensitive matter, or what threatens to do now, namely pension reductions of – I really say it quite flat-rate – up to 40 percent for people who have already employed their calculations? I know enough people who go five times to the pension office and to the pension insurance institution – whether for workers or employees, it is now no longer available – and I can calculate how it will be. These are usually people who do not have such a “class” job as you and I do, a job where you experience quite a lot, come around a lot in the world, learn new things, train yourself personally and have real fun at work. I have it – and I assume that you too have fun at work. As a rule, people who have a job are thinking about their pensions and the future. They do this work primarily because they have to contend with their livelihood and also with the livelihood of family members. They can't break their heads every day about whether they can somehow find themselves and get involved in their work. That's why there are people – you won't believe it, Mr. Federal Minister; I guess you're about 15 years younger than I – looking forward to the pension because they know the suffering of working as a life before the pension! I hope that this group of people is not as big as it would actually be my punctual experience if I calculated it. I come from an environment where there are many people who – I am not saying that they are all poor – are not as rich as I – I count among these privileged ones – and have to think about each day: How will this be in the future, can I afford to buy diesel jeans and sweaters for my children? All this is not a circumstance for me to break my head over it, but for these people already, and these people are worried. That is why I ask you, Minister of State Grasser, that you really mean what you are writing and saying, namely that this is a sensitive matter. You are the only one in the Federal Government who is partyless – and that is why I rely on you. I’ve learned in recent weeks that you can’t count on the ÖVP – with some exceptions. There are no exceptions in the government at all, but I hope for which. In the liberal government man and woman – there is also a State Secretary – there is no one. You, Federal Minister Grasser, are the only one whom I hope you will raise this sensitivity and express it at some point. Two more comments on the content: The one comment, Mr. Grasser – perhaps I tell you something new; if not, consider it a support of your knowledge – concerns the issue of the precarious financial situation of the Israeli cultural community and the association of the Israeli cultural communities in Austria. Today, a press conference with the President of the Federal Association of the Israeli Cultural Communities has taken place in which he has announced that he can no longer help himself in the financial distress in which he is located other than the work of the Cultural Community in certain areas starting in June, because this question is still unexplained. [[Abg. Neudeck: July!]] It probably has nothing to do with you personally, but very much with the Chancellor, that communication between the highest church dignitaries – in the case not of the Roman Catholic or Protestant Church, but of Austrian Judaism – and the second highest representative of this state, namely the Chancellor, does not exist. Zero! There's no contact. Mr Federal Minister, my opinion on this: I consider it an affront first category that the request, the request and the demand for dialogue or communication between the highest representative of a religious community – I am not talking about the burden of history and about how to deal with it, but simply about this fact – and the Austrian Chancellor is not successful. [[Abg. Neudeck: It is necessary to clarify whether the Cultusgemeinde speaks for the religious community!]] In my opinion, these are the reasons why so many things have gone wrong in the past. But I am not talking about it now, because you are responsible for the future budget. Mr. Grasser, it can't be a problem for you to provide €2.7 million annually – the sum that the President of the Federation of Israel's Cultural Communities called today – from the State budget to ensure the benefits that the Israeli Cultus Church needs and the other churches in this form – the security question – and to ensure the survival of this approximately 6,700 members' religious community. [[Abg. Neudeck: But where do we take it away?]] For this group, it is a question of survival. – It was a question of survival. These are times that are decades behind. We must not allow it – I really ask you to support it – and cannot be responsible for living in a country where there is a question of survival for a Jewish community. If it were so – I am now speaking in the conjunctive, because I still believe that there will be a solution in the near future – then this would be a European shame, and I do not want to be ashamed, Federal Minister! Help!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12608	Mrs Dr. Brinek has now been reported to the House. Preferred speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12626	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A brief historical reconnaissance: My predecessor, Teresa Stoisits, says that she cannot remember when ever such creative word creations are available in connection with “budget becoming”. – I can already remember: There have been ministers from SPÖ governments – Androsch, Lacina, climate – who have spoken of zero growth. I've always wondered what such a zero growth looks like. [[Abg. Big Truck: Minus Growth!]] [[Call the SPÖ: We do!]] Depending on the mood or habitability, one has spoken of a “red zero” or a “black zero”. I've always seen what color the zero has. [[Abg. Eder: We know the black zero! This is a colourless zero!]] I appreciate the Minister as one who is very creative, but there have already been “creatives” before, which can be seen! [[Abg. Eder: The black double zero!]] By the way, do you remember why Finance Minister Lacina resigned at the time and made Staribacher a place for the short-term minister? – Because he found the trade union's excessive attitude towards his major reforms for overrun, unheard of and insulting and therefore cleared the field. All of this can be read in the minutes, I've spent a couple of days with it. So we do not glorify the times of “ideal” social partners and “cooperation” between trade union and government. – There were also cracks, jumps and so on, and so on. We prefer to work on improving cooperation. [[Abg. May. Gäßner: Now there are jumps with you!]] Let me now give you an example, which shows how this was with the supplements, supplements and pension rights in the past. A woman wrote to me: I retired more than ten years ago with 55 years of age. What do you think about how much percent pension this woman got back then? – 60 percent. She writes: So I also had to buy discounts because it was already clear at the time: We will not be able to keep our generation contract if we think we can achieve the highest pension with early retirement. She pleads for it and asks me and us to be moderate in the beatings, but to leave things in lot and to think of the boys. I may not have the right to speak as a lawyer of the boys, but I do, however, because for me, the cohesion of the generations is essential. [[Abg. Eder: Oja! You look good, why not?]] Thank you, colleague. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I now come to a few comments that have been made in connection with science and research. I am very glad that this Federal Government has decided to strengthen the field of education, training, research and development. This is indeed the opportunity and the opportunity for development for young people, and it is also our potential for economic development. It will no longer be avoidable, and all workers will have to understand that investment in research and development will create jobs, and not, as we thought years ago, that development and innovation will prevent jobs. – I am very happy about that. The figures have already been mentioned: Compared to 1999, this federal government doubles, we double by law the corresponding budget item. – That can be seen! [[Abg. Gaál: No!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] That's what you can read, so I'm not quoting it. Mr Greenewald! I would just like to reject misunderstandings that have also been raised by your group. I also know that the universities do not live in luxury in 2003. To claim that would be beautiful. But who can afford luxury? – That would be unfair to the other segments and segments. But we can say with fug and law: When universities enter into jurisdiction in 2004, they will have the money we have promised – including salary increases, including personnel costs and including the associated implementation costs or expenses for them. Furthermore, they will have the opportunity to transform without having to take into account, as now, the mandatory rules of the Federal Budget Act. And let's be honest: Organisational gains from the new form, self-employment, are not yet taken into account. I was also very surprised that science spokesperson Broukal in the “Small Newspaper” did not say for too long that he could even imagine from his ORF experience that 10 percent of people do not feel savings anyway. So if, on the one hand, organisational gains are to be expected and the savings that have been addressed here, no one feels – I mean, you feel them already, if you are well household, and that's what the universities are doing, I use for them – then that can happen already. Mr Gusenbauer, too, I can conclude by saying: He doesn't have to worry about the funding of the colleges. We have already achieved the plan soll according to the development plan. We were already further in the autumn of this year than the development plan had been planned. To be added: First, we reach the relation three to one among university and university graduates, and second, the high number of applicants who had to be rejected due to lack of space. Some of the planned courses could not be established because the necessary number of suitable candidates was not available. Remember, too, that the courses need to be evaluated at regular intervals and therefore we cannot assume that all the courses once set up will continue to be established on a permanent basis. The funding is thus provided. If you compare proposals with proposals and not proposals with realization, then the budget in the field of science, education and research will look satisfactory! I thank you for the commitment of the Federal Minister, the Federal Chancellor, the Federal Minister and the Federal Government as a whole!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12754	I call Mr Gaál. The speaking time is about 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12773	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Achleitner – she is no longer present – referred to the strike earlier. [[Abg. Eder: She went to coffee and cake!]] It may be that it's on this 6th. There has been little discomfort in May and there. But this was certainly not as negative as the pension reform of the Federal Government, which will always accompany us for a lifetime, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Murauer: Positive, Anton! Accompanied positively!]] – Unfortunately, you are not right once again, Mr Murauer, but I am already used to that with you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: No, no!]] Federal Minister! I mean, with this budget, you're in danger of losing the last rest of your credibility. This is particularly true of security and defence policy. This is why, like Mr Bösch, we cannot be satisfied with the development of the budget, but I think that the budget and the prospects for the Austrian army are very negative. Federal Minister! There is therefore no satisfaction with us, because the fact is that the military budget has been getting smaller and smaller since the start of this German government, since your ministerial ministry year after year. This draft budget confirms this negative development, which we will show you in detail during the budgetary consultations. All the procurements mentioned by colleague Dr. Bösch have not yet been financed! The funding is open, there is no procurement process yet. For example, to the team transporters “Pandur” he quoted, there are no conversations, no duty notes, no performance description, there are no contacts at all. Although we decided to do so in 1996 under the Mech package in this House, the funding is still open. This also applies to many other procurement projects mentioned by him, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Mr. Gaál, that's too much for some!]] The present draft budget confirms the decline, particularly in security policy, in the field of defence. For us, this means that the budget will be offset by 0.7 percent. – Mr Federal Minister, this is the smallest budget since the Austrian federal army existed! For years, however, the “evil socialists” have not been there, who are said to have turned back and forth. This is the fourth budget without the participation of social democrats and at the same time the lowest budget since the Austrian federal army existed. I can remind you that under Kreisky and Sinowatz we had the highest budget rate in this area. - That's to be read. Mr Federal Minister, you have very little left for the Austrian Federal Army and very little left for a powerful and forward-looking security and defence policy. For you, security and defence policy exists only in the purchase of these sinteurous interceptors, these fighter planes, which you used to rightly call ‘warring device’. Ladies and gentlemen! Ours No to these fighter planes is no No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, – On the contrary: We say No, out of concern for the future of the Austrian federal army, because there are no more financial resources available for meaningful, necessary procurements in the interest and security of our soldiers abroad when they are on the move in the service of peace. – That is why a decisive No to this draft budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12870	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mainoni. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12904	Mr President. Federal Minister! One of the important tasks of politics – I am sure you will also be right about the opposition – is to establish social justice. Our effort is to create social justice, and that is why we have been able to tax-free from small incomes as of next year. This is an important step – a first step towards social justice in this state. Ours Target is the fight against poverty in Austria, and that is why this measure has become necessary for us. We therefore also insist that, for example, profits not collected from companies are not taxed. We insist that unnecessary and therefore expensive bureaucracy be reduced as much as possible. – This is not a general fight against bureaucracy, quite the contrary: The bureaucracy is a very important part of this state. However, if one counts the administrative authorities in Austria, it is noted that there are now five stages: the municipality, the district administration authority, the offices of the state governments, the federal administration and, last but not least, the administration of the European Union, which, of course, is gaining more and more importance for Austrian life. – These are a total of five stages, and I also expect substantial reforms in the Constitutional Convention, which will soon take up its activity – reforms not only because of reforms but, of course, debureaucratisation and, above all, also because of savings. Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly pleased, in my capacity as Transport Speakers of my group, that this budget, for example, has provided substantial resources for the high-level road network. A comparison: In 1999, it was still €650 million, which was available for this. Today it is 1.2 billion € and for next year even 1.3 billion €. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is not only individual transport, but also, above all, rail investment, which is increasing in these 2003 and 2004 budgets. Instead of € 900 million in 1999 – in order to make a comparison again – 1,1 billion € will be available for rail investments this year and next year. As far as infrastructure is concerned, it has never been done as much as in these two budgets. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are investment for the future of our country, for growth in this state, for more employment, but above all for better quality of life. Let me come to another area which Mr Brinek has already mentioned: Research and development. – An offensive programme, worth €600 million for the years 2004 to 2006, is an important indication of the future policy in this country, for a modern policy that is, as has been said, forward-looking and important for citizens in that state.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12970	Mr Grünewald. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12988	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Federal Minister, you have been very excited about Mr Van der Bellen's speech and criticism. You can now imagine: On the one hand, one can get caught up in truths because they do not like to be heard. But we can get caught up in falsehoods! – I mean, both are legitimate – second even more if I can formulate it in this way. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What is the truth?]] It is also not necessary to ask permission if you are excited about something. It was already a unique event: President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). That was a brilliant speech!" as the first president of the National Council commented from his seat, it was definitely a innovation – but the ÖVP is for new – and at least interesting. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: He also said the opinion!]] When I heard the speech, I thought, There is less talk of brilliance, but of smelling brilliantine. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] She was a little too sloppy and too sluggish and finally a sum of phrases and headlines. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Would you rather have sprayed it?]] – Dearer and more honest and with more arguments, because it was a pot or a potpourri of consecration, half-truths and announcements. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is your interpretation now!]] There only more “millstones”, “future opportunities”,“ grandeur ” were pulsating and creating a relatively indigestible stew. – This is stylistically not really tolerable! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Pictures are beautiful, and one probably learns for presentations, but it was the speech of “Fish without water”, then of a “water”, which defiles“ without fish. ” – Now I don’t know, does this come from an advertising text for fishing rods or swimming pools? – It’s true, but I can’t begin with it. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The medicine also works with pictures!]] Some time ago we heard from you: A good day begins with an excellent budget. – I don’t know if you said “excellently”, but something in this direction. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Rehabilitated!]] – With a “renewed” budget – after that is excellent. Gorbach then says that it is a good day when research and innovation are so correct in the budget. – I have to say that I still have a huge smelt and a soft egg of truth content more relevant and safer in the prognosis, because – and now we come to the point: You say you are obliged to write certain numbers in this way. – If it results in a zero-sum game, you must not sell it as an increase! That really is to the most unscrupulous! The exclusion of universities – which is only for the listeners – has forecast additional costs or will cause – let us say it more kindly – forecast additional costs of 10 or 20 percent – some even say 30 percent. This has its reasons; it could be explained. The universities did not previously have autonomous budgets for the staff, because they came from the Federal Chancellery. Now, the universities are assigned the staff – so beautiful it is, or so terriblely it says – as a living loan from the federal government, but the staff they had before must pay for themselves. And see: Federal Minister Grasser budgets this at €733 million and says: Look, you got €733 million, but for what the federal government had to pay before, because it wasn't the university's business. - And that's what I call a dangerous deception. The other way round is a plus of almost €30 million! And that's a difference! Mrs. Brinek, you as a science spokesman and Karl-Heinz Grasser as a number expert or juggler, you have – yes, however – claimed to have doubled the university budget and the funds for research. [[Abg. Brosz: Trick calculator!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: 1999!]] - Yes! From 1999: The figure is 1 billion 278 million for 1999, which sometimes doubles – but you now explain to me another kind of basic account, Mrs Brinek – amounting to 2 billion 556 million. However, there are 2 013 000 000 in the budget. That's doubled, Mrs. Brinek? That means there is a lack of € 543 million. “Doll”, and that has been doubled! And then it says we're small, we're critics. I think that's crazy. The universities have a natural turnover of staff, especially at clinics. Do you know what a clinic researcher at the University Hospital Innsbruck had to do? – He has banned research in the service time because the physicians otherwise go out in patient care and teaching. And this is innovation in research? I can only say: Bravo! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: From individual measures you can't...!]] And it is also in Orientalism, where people learn such senseless things as the morals of the Orient, the jurisprudence of the Orient and the language of the Orient, which, as you may not have missed, has now gained some meaning. Places cannot be re-occupied because a scheduled stop is specified. 5 percent minus you ordered in 2003. The virement capacity, i.e., the flexible budgets, which are not bound by legal obligations, are less than 3 percent at the university. So you don't have a budget to do what you have in the government programme: Focusing, profile formation, innovation. Read through the letters and e-mails of the rectors what they tell you about the “strikes ”! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: I said no...!]] And if you, Mrs Brinek, think that as a Member of Parliament you must always clap where the untruth lies at the table, I find this embarrassing for a science speaker. So I find it embarrassing from Rasinger when he wants to hear from me things I didn't say. It could also be that he quotes things he has never read – and that is bad!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13184	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'd like to set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13217	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Although I would like to speak on the subject of economics in itself, since the topic of pension has been discussed very often today, I would like to make a comment on this – not on the content, but on the process: As a social partners, I am of course still in favour of the involvement of the social partners accordingly. The offer of the social partners to the Federal Government until 30. On September 1st, my full support has been given to drawing up an appropriate draft. Why? – Not so that the whole reform is postponed, but a reform must also be implemented accordingly. And for it to be lived by employers and employees, the corresponding involvement must be given. This is an offer, ladies and gentlemen, and you can accept or not accept an offer. It is a voluntary matter, and accepting an offer cannot be enforced. If you make strikes against the establishments, then this is such a force or an attempt to do so, even at the wrong address. And I reject this procedure! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is why I reject it because we really want – and this should also be the interest of you from the left – an economic location Austria, which is functional and which is not even at risk by any dispute at all. In this context, I would like to look back on the last two years. We had a very difficult economic situation, even today. The government has taken the right measures – which was at the time highly criticised – but the economic package that we decided in 2001 and 2002 was right because it was not a demand package, but a supply-oriented package that has been effective in structural policy. We also see the consequences, ladies and gentlemen: We have worked with premiums, with depreciation possibilities in the construction sector, precisely with the right measures that have led young entrepreneurs and potential entrepreneurs to feel that they have been encouraged to set up. In 2002, we had 28 000 foundations in Austria in a very difficult economic phase. Germany has chosen the easy way: minus 4.5 percent of the foundings – we had plus 10 percent. I think that is a serious difference. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am already in the prospect of doing so, of the measures that will be put in place in the economic sector for the years 2003 and 2004. The economic situation has not improved significantly. I believe that we are taking the right measures in itself – the right measures in terms of tax exemption up to €14 500 annual income. Why? – Because, of course, the first thing here is the income tax that companies pay. And it is the very small companies that are set free here, not those who invest in the money, but those who pay some minimum contributions. In this area, 60 percent of companies pay minimum contribution bases. That is why it is a very correct measure to be put in place here. Secondly, The profits that have not been collected are made cheaper. I also think that this is a right measure, Mr Minister, which has not yet been properly implemented. Now we have the problem that the freelancers are excluded in the draft. I don't think that's right in the sense of equal rights. We also need the same options. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, We should also look at where we are starting with minimum taxation. I do not think it can be done in such a way that you only have advantages at €20 000 a year, but if this is to be effective for small and medium-sized enterprises, you have to put it down below: Therefore, this minimum tax rate must be removed. I hope that this will still happen in the negotiations on the budget accompanying law. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] I am therefore on the point that is always relatively positive: That's the 13th. VAT prepayment. The year has twelve months, as we know. I would like to pay tribute to the ex-Finance Minister, Lacina, in so far as he knew that this was a compensation measure that we then introduced when the commercial tax was abolished. The State has lost revenue, it has recovered revenue due to the pre-payment of VAT, but it has already given one to the companies: In fact, it has raised the turnover tax date, the due date, from 10 to 15. If you convert this to twelve months, you actually have a small advantage. But it was not an advantage psychologically, so we must now also explain this as a positive implementation. But, Minister, €1.7 billion is of course not worth it. You have to make an overall view. The overall view must also be made if, for example, the road use levy is no longer budget-relevant. But I must say, Minister, that road pricing concerns the economy as a whole, the location of €600 million. That is why I ask you to see that as a whole. That's what I'm done with. The point of export offensive is perhaps the most important. Here we, the Government and the Chamber of Commerce, are doing a joint action. This is the condition and the basis for strengthening Austria's location with economic recovery. Internationally, I think we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13309	Mr Eder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'd like to put the clock at 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13327	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I may be able to agree with Mr Mitterlehner's comments. There are some things that he has said, which one might well underline, but it must be clear to us already: Your President is somewhat different from what you said. ==References====External links== On April 15, Leitel was quoted as saying: ‘Schüssel damages Austria’s economic location. [[Abg. Head: This sentence did not say Leitel!]] Yes, you can understand by hand, my colleague, but that is in the “Economic Sheet. ” That's not what I'm saying. [[Abg. Head: Read once...!]] If you start from this, I would like to make it clear here that Austria's economic location is, of course, threatened if you go over the Austrian population with a new pension right as it is now. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Header]] That is not what you want, Mr Mitterlehner, and we do not want to do that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Looks like it's just the one who's been quoted here. You have to take note of this! - On the one hand. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Just quote!]] Secondly, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Yesterday, in his budget speech, the Minister of Finance spoke a lot about the future, solidarity, security, research and infrastructure, removals and wings, and so on. I have, of course, taken a closer look at the individual budget figures following this speech, which I have followed very closely. And then the world looks a little different. As I said earlier – Mr Mainoni is not present at the moment – even experts such as the Transport Spokesman of the Freedom Party have “entered” a bit, namely: He has said right here that, for example, now for road construction, much more money is spent than in 1999, which is instead of € 658 million, € 1 194 million – that is true – but that has nothing to do with the budget. There is a distributed society, the ASFINAG, and the ASFINAG has the task of expanding and rehabilitating the road network accordingly. But: The ASFINAG does not have these €1 194 million! When he talks with ASFINAG management, the Minister of Finance also knows very well that this naturally has to take up loans to finance the whole thing. However, borrowing credit is the same as making debt. That is, the trick we're being shown here is: Although the budget is trying to push expenditure down, the debt is renewed over the societies that are founded. And these are measures, ladies and gentlemen, which must also be paid! These measures must be paid exactly by those, and Mr Mitterlehner has just lamented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Controller.]] But when we talk about road pricing, you also have to know – colleague regulators, you are even the specialist in the Federal Chamber of Commerce for these things – that the Federal Chamber of Commerce is publishing Pamphlets, in which she clearly notes that all this is far too high, that one cannot finance it and that this is damaging to the economic location as we have just heard. But you have to agree on something. One cannot say that in the budget we do not want to have that, the ASFINAG should take credit – and pay it to the drivers, namely the car drivers. That's what we're against from the SPÖ. The trucks also have to be asked for the checkout once. In this area, we must also come to the point of cost-effectiveness, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since much has already been discussed about the tax reform: Under the cover “tax reform” in fact, apart from all that has already been debated here today, there is a huge additional burden on the population. And the greatest burdens have to be borne once again by workers and pensioners. These are affected by massive pension reductions, self-retaining in health insurance, new fees payable to doctors, energy taxes introduced, increases in fees and taxes that go far beyond planned tax reductions. If you calculate all of this, you will have a much higher extra burden on the population than this large, "total" tax reform, which is the one that can ever relieve taxpayers. When I think of the drivers alone: Once again, there will be a completely targeted disbursement. The mineral oil tax is now increased by 1 to 2.5 cents per litre of petrol and by 2 to 3.5 cents per litre of diesel. It is not possible to talk about the European Union, because it has not planned the same taxation until 2007. However, this one measure alone means an increase of about €335 million for all drivers – which is hardly affected by trucks – and this is rising! [[Abg. May. Controller: Cost truth!]] Previously, the truck toll was discussed. Here is this pamphlet from the Federal Chamber of Commerce with the following wording: Road pricing yes, but when it goes, very low, very moderate. – Of course, I understand this attitude of stakeholders, but we also need a little cost-truth in road transport. We don't want to believe the drivers with their private cars that they have to pay the whole latte and get away with the fishers with a blue eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13441	Mr Walch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European I'd like to put the clock at 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13460	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A word on the statements made by my predecessor. Mr Eder, when you speak of stress, I say: [[Abg. Eder: Why are we per you?]] I'm 50 years old now. When the SPÖ was on the government, it created so many burdens that, I think, a 500-page book could be filled with it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It angers the opposition, of course, when a double budget is proposed, which has corners and edges. This has been achieved despite an economically difficult situation in joint cooperation – FPÖ and ÖVP – with the Minister of Finance, who has created a budget that is tangible. And for two more years! I believe that this has not brought together its predecessors from the SPÖs, who have, in most cases, put the Minister of Finance, even in good times. On behalf of Mr Nürnberger I would like to make one comment today because he has referred to me that I should have said at the last plenary session: Read – think – talk! He said: Calculate. – I would ask him to: If you calculate something, you should know the formula before. If something is under negotiation, then there is no formula yet. That is why I find it unfair and unfair to irritate the population with arithmetical examples and say: So many discounts you will have, if you don't know how high the deposits will be. - So much for it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Austria is – thank God! – despite economic difficulties in the happy situation that it is with 1. In May 2003, only 4.1% of the unemployed were unemployed. If you look at the situation in other countries in Europe, we can still talk about happiness. But I say: Every unemployed person is too much. Nevertheless, we have record employment in May of more than 3 155 000 employees. That's important, too. If you look at what this budget says, I have to say that despite the difficult financial situation in Austria, more money is spent on education, training, science, research and much more. This will make up more than €17 billion in the next two years, which will be invested in the future! For this reason too, this is a correspondingly good budget. What makes me particularly happy, since I come from the construction industry, is that I am investing in construction. The economic engine in Austria is the construction industry; if the construction industry lives, then all the related plants also live. Therefore, it will be invested – whether it is in roads, in railways, in house building or in much more. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] And that's, I mean, very positive. But on one thing, I'm very curious: It's just talking about the pension reform. I am already curious about the social security reform, because in the self-government bodies there are many owners of the social democrats and one has seen how they have been operating in recent decades. [[Abg. Eder: Have you already ruined!]] [[Abg. Reheis: You ruined it!]] They don't have much idea of the economy, I have to say quite honestly, because otherwise there wouldn't appear to be such a high deficit. [[Abg. Reheis: They have managed well!]] The Federal Government has now given the self-government authorities the task of making a proposal on how to manage better, more efficiently and cost-effectively with the same performance. Now I'm curious: Who created this 16 retention in Austria? You won't say the liberals, will you? You can't say that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That was the Gaugg!]] I am also curious to see how much power and how much will these people have there, because they are the managing directors of this organization or this insurance and are obliged to do something. I want to know what skills they have – as happens in the private sector every day – so that they can search through, reform, compete on the market for the benefit of the employees or the insured. Then let us see how many restraints are abolished, how much that costs less and how they can save this system. And if they can't, then stop by the government of Black and Blue and make another proposal. It's all right. What's been done? – For families, the child allowance, the “handling new” and now comes the first stage of the tax reform. I haven't heard of any of the SPÖ's program yet. The first stage of the tax reform takes place in 2004. [[Abg. Eder: No one can feel that!]] Furthermore, the approximation of workers and employees is another important step. As far as the 1 000 € minimum wage is concerned, I must say to you: If the social democrats had negotiated trade unions better, then there would not have been such a small collective agreement for the people, then there would not have been so many minimum pensioners. If you had tried a little more, the pensions in Austria would also look different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13590	Next is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13608	Mr President. High house! Estimated Minister! Perhaps I can immediately clear up with a slight misunderstanding, which apparently presupposes the draft budget speech. Mr Finanzminister, Gender Mainstreaming means not only gender-neutral formulation, and there is no quota regime in the case of gender-neutral formulation. It is not just a matter of formulating 100 percent of the sex-neutral, and not just as it is in your speech at the beginning. Towards the end more and more the male formulations prevail. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I've initially accepted: It just happened, it was a mistake! – just as it is obvious in the pension reform due to the savings schemes in the government, in which “at random” – under quotation marks – women pay very much on it. However, if I analyze the budget speech, which is available in a well-printed form and was almost not taken apart from it, I have to say: It is not uninteresting to see in what context there are female formulations and in what context there are only male formulations. There are, of course, ladies at the speech “ Ladies and gentlemen!” – quite correctly! Then there is the formulation of “Austrian women and Austrians”, which prefers to say thank you, for example, for the flood aid. In the field of charity, women are also present in the formulations. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I want your concerns!]] However, it becomes exciting when the citizens are talking about it. [[Abg. Neudeck: Are you a German teacher?]] There are the citizens in it again, but no longer in the areas in which it is also about getting something. For example, only the guarantee he gets more purchasing power, the citizens are unfortunately not inside. He, social partners he, construction, company he, all there are in male form only. Older workers, for example, who are affected by the pension reform, are only in the male form, and perhaps this is the explanation that you claim that older workers are not so seriously affected by the pension reform – quite clearly, because workers are significantly more affected within! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: What do you say about the reform? It means: the reform!]] Obviously not even here in the House is clear what gender mainstreaming has to do with the budget. I can inform you, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party and of the ÖVP: We are – number 1! – in the EU, so there is – number 2! – a commitment to gender mainstreaming. And Gender Mainstreaming means: For all measures having an impact on the population, look separately at men and women and ensure equal treatment. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This would also be urgently necessary, because this budget – and the budget speech describes the measures in a comprehensive way – of course has a massive impact on men and women, having a different impact on men and women. I would like to explain this to you on a number of examples. First example – we have already discussed this longer and wider –: Of course, the pension reform with the calculation period of 40 years has a completely different effect on men and women. This has already been carried out several times. Another example: Labour market. – It’s the latest fashion that one doesn’t discuss a budget in relative numbers, but in absolute numbers, and Plus and Minus don’t always hit very hard. We have heard many times today that employment has increased in absolute terms. I would be interested in what is the relative share of part-time employment. I know that part-time workers are women for the most part. I would be interested if you looked at the fact that the wage tax reductions of course bring more especially those who earn more and therefore pay more wage tax. These will benefit more from a reduction. And there you can suddenly expect percentages, not in absolute numbers. The income shears, which are already falling apart, continue to disperse on the basis of the measures taken by this government, although we, Mr. Finanzminister, should know that, too, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, have a commitment to gender mainstreaming, in the context of the EU, and although there is also a working group that the government is using and which needs to look at how this affects. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Detto can be seen in the street construction sector, on the labour market, and not directly the classical promotion of women. I will now come to the end of my speech. [[Abg. Grandruck: Thank God!]] – I understand that sometimes the men don’t like to hear this when the “medial men’s policy” is criticized, but I can’t help you because you have to listen to me! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It will be relaxing when you stop!]] So many rights have the women fortunately fought, at least in some parties. The general adoption of this budget is: There is only one model, there is only one kind of effect – that is what my colleague Sburny has already called very striking today as “medium-aged” and male – and for women I can only say to remain in the division of Mr. Finanzminister: This budget is a big water – without fish!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13777	Mr Neugebauer has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13795	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to go into detail but basically say: I think that we can all believe that permanent deficits are not only harmful to Austria's economic location, but also that public officials as employees of the Austrian company are interested in a balanced budget, because they have not been able to cut the appropriate cake under budgetary pressure in recent years and decades. In his report, the Minister of Finance also devoted important passages to the section on administrative reform. Administrative reform is a permanent process. I would remind you of the link that the President of the Court of Auditors has also made, namely that administrative reform initially means task reform. I wish the Convention all the best. I think he can start well once, because he is overly well-established, with the aim of preventing multiple flats. Since the Federal Government is not by chance also an employer and we are negotiating the negotiations in the social partners with the Public Service Trade Union, I urge, Mr Bundeskanzler, Minister of Finance, that the questions of administrative reform in the individual departments be dealt with in agreement, in exchange of views with the relevant staff representatives. They have pointed out that the aim is to save 10,000 federal servants. As a learned Austrian, I know what it looks like at the end of the day. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Early board!]] However, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw attention to the fact that we have reached the end of the flag bar of human resources in many areas today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You yourself, Mr. Finanzminister, know from your home how necessary it is to be able to gain qualified employees in addition. The members of the judiciary, whether they are in the administration, the guard or the judicial service, are also at the end of the load. It must be thought, for example, that today the Administrative Court has an update of the year 1997 because the human resources are not sufficient. That's not just the federal government's fault. We all, ladies and gentlemen here in the House and in the countryside, produce laws in a flood that is in reality no longer or only difficult to manage. We have reached a regulatory density that lets the rule of law breathe. I would ask you to make all of this aware, if we say that we have to be more generous, but then discover a subject that we want covered by law. There needs to be another culture that we should address together! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am a passionate social partners, and this excludes me from being social opponents. – Ladies and gentlemen! We have always made the most difficult issues in the social partnership in this Second Republic, although from different positions, and I am quite concerned that the Federal Government has not accepted the offer of the great social partnership in the Causa prima. But I think every day starts new, and you can reopen the discussion with each day. [[Demonstratetive applause with the SPÖ and the Greens]] I am also a trade unionist out of passion, and passion implies that one is clearly articulated and clearly represented. Trade union measures, if they are considered necessary – and the history of the trade union movement, since in particular the measured strike seconds in recent years, prove that we have been very responsible in dealing with them – cannot happen in the germ-free area. I guess that's a matter of course. Ladies and gentlemen! I maintain a language in which the formulation “Austria burns” does not occur. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I also know, dear friends, that, in principle, it is not the language culture of my colleague Fritz – Fritz zu Fritz – which he has “arrived” here today. He should have done the correction a little faster. But I was concerned that Mr Heinzl, after the very serious correction of the Presidency, concluded by Dr Heinz Fischer: But, in fact, resistance was right! – I have registered that with regret.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13866	Mr Bures. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13884	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Grasser, yesterday after your budget speech, I received a call, and a gentleman who was originally your voters said to me: Mr Stronach certainly thought something about it when he hired KHG for marketing and did not entrust him with group finances. – I also think it became clear yesterday in your budget speech: Mr Stronach was right! You can't trust money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I don't believe that!]] You did not present a future budget yesterday – we have already discussed it a lot today – because you have presented an unsocial budget here. You have done this with a lot of shame – you are responsible for marketing – but I can tell you: Unfortunately, the people in Austria cannot live from your reproach, of which they have nothing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As with your last budget speech, you have presented a budget that we now hold, but in your speech you have spoken about quite different things, and in that you are an expert: Your speech has nothing to do with what we have received from “cold” figures and facts. Black on white says that from 2004 to 2007, around €2 billion will be spent on people in excess taxes. The fact is that you have spoken about making the largest tax reform of the Second Republic – once again formulated with very well-known words – a tax reduction for 2.4 million people, but you have kept silent that you “greatly” approve of a tax relief of less than €4 per year for more than half, that is, far more than a million people. That's what you've been secreting! You have also told these people that they are not even 40 cents a month now – and that should be generous? – get from you, but at the same time have higher fuel prices and higher energy taxes, while at the same time housing costs increase daily. In view of that, you are making yourself up and saying: Tax reduction: 4 € per year! – That’s bad, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I didn't say 4 € per year!]] I have already said today on the occasion of the debate on self-preservation: They say one thing, but they do the other. They act according to the motto: What do I care about yesterday's chatter? That's what you see: They announce that there will be no additional debt, but the opposite is the case. The figures show: 2003 plus €3.9 billion, 2004 plus €3.4 billion, so a total of €7.3 billion more deficit – and the whole without reforms, without securing pensions, without securing our health system, exclusively with burdens. Do you know what I found embarrassing, Mr. Federal Minister? - That you said yesterday: “The bacon must be gone!” – They direct the Austrians: Gasine gets more expensive, the housing costs rise, I lower your taxes by 4 € a year – bravo! - But the bacon has to go! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I said that in connection with the administrative reform!]] But the only place where Speck exists is this Federal Government: We have the largest federal government of all time – it doesn't matter! – and interceptors are not too expensive for you either. There's the bacon, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Just like everything is wrong in your speech!]] [[Abg. Murauer: Loud, but wrong!]] Federal Minister! You also said yesterday in your speech – and as you said, what you said has nothing to do with the budget – that this tax reform will “give Austrian wings”. It will stimulate private consumption, stimulate investment and stimulate the pace of innovation and growth of our economy. Mr Federal Minister, I somehow have the impression that there is only one who has wings in this Federal Government, and that is you. This federal government as a whole has also received wings, it has lost ground liability, because it has no idea what the problems and concerns of the Austrian population are. They have lost their ground liability and got wings, because unfortunately there is no way to stimulate economic growth or measures are being taken to combat unemployment. There is no such initiative in your budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So everything in everything can be said: In your budget, which is the government's policy in figures, there are no initiatives to increase employment and to combat unemployment. That's just a nice talk. There are no measures to stimulate economic growth and boost economic growth. We miss real reforms. Under the rule, you can say: This budget is non-social, non-responsible and anti-economic – and that is what you and this government have to answer! Finally, an appeal to this government, especially to you, Mr Federal Minister and Mr Bundeskanzler – also colleague Neugebauer has just formulated it here: I call on you to accept the call for dialogue, to resume the discussion with all the parties, with trade unions, with the social partners, with Mr Neugebauer, with the Church and with the Federal President, who has already made an appeal to you. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Your speech lacks credibility!]] Take up the dialogue again, put the social peace and social cohesion with which Austria has grown up, a successful Austrian path, not maliciously at stake!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14023	Mr Neudeck. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14041	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If Mr Bures is talking about joint action in such a way and calls on her to speak with each other, she must already be written in the main book: Strike is not the right way to talk or negotiate with someone! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The strike is then used if you have too weak arguments. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2000, Finance Minister Grasser presented for the first time a balanced budget for 2002 – then an unattainable utopia for deficit-based SPÖ delegates and ex-ministers. [[Abg. Eder: He was once in your party!]] Mr President, ladies He was once in our party, he's not now. He's partyless, but that's why he's not colourless, as you might believe. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] – I said he's not colourless, he's partyless. You hear bad, Mr. Eder! May I speak to you with “You ”? That's why I'm asking you because you banned Walch, although he says he's at the union. He said that among colleagues this is so common at the trade union. I don't know what you're doing. [[Abg. Eder: I'm not at the union!]] - Oh, that's it! Good. That's not a mistake. When this zero deficit occurred earlier than planned – one has to say honestly: with the help of the federal states, the economy, the workers and on the basis of positive economic data – this success of the opposition was not right either, although at the same time their party chairman Gusenbauer wanted to raise the zero deficit to the constitutional rank, but that was apparently only a short-term idea, at least at that time he put it into space. At that time, the opposition speakers even assigned the zero deficit to the global economic downturn: Because Austria saves its citizens because Austria's citizens save, the economy went back worldwide. – That was your speech back then, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. The double budget presented for 2003 and 2004 shows a low deficit to support the emerging economic upturn. – Suddenly, this is not right again. First, the zero deficit was not right, now a slight deficit to boost the economy, either. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Austria is in the European but also in the international comparison in the statistics either in the good middle field or in top positions. Where other countries are better than Austria, the causes are quickly localized: It was saved in good economic years, and money was invested in research and technology. Not so in Austria: We have had deficits in good years of social-democratic chancellors and ministers over decades. [[Abg. Eder: Vice chancellor? Who was that?]] – There was no social democrat. [[Abg. Eder: The bowl!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] He was a social-democratic vice-chanceller? – I said social democratic chancellors and finance ministers. – colleague Eder, don’t read paper, listen to me, you don’t have to call in! Listen, then call!, someone said today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The deficits of Socialist Chancellors and Finance Ministers have been responsible for decades; Money pumped into the state-owned industry to secure jobs in the first place – and I say, just ahead. That was not sustainable at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] Today, billions of debts from this time are invading the budget. Nevertheless, for example, the comparison with Germany, one of our largest trading partners, makes sure: Red-Green is not an alternative, but a danger to the economy, social peace and prosperity for all ages! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! This government relieves the economy, for example, by abolishing the 13th century. Sales tax dates. They do everything they can to destroy this discharge for the economy with strikes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14190	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14209	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Minister for Economic Affairs! I thought several times at yesterday's budget speech – apart from the already mentioned, interesting and tricky calculations, in particular what has affected the scientific and educational budget: Yes, Ideology is going through quite well now. – There was a little too little reference to this in the debate. For example, I have read with interest that you write your dissertation on the subject of reduction of the tax rate to 40 percent by 2010 or below 40 percent. Or: On page 6 in the written copy You write your budget speech, and you have actually said it here – I quote –: “Whoever wants to fight poverty effectively... needs to free our companies from shackles and burdens and create a climate in which performance is worthwhile for the individual. We therefore want less state influence and more market.” I mean, that's what you know from the current discussion. You know where to assign this ideologically. But especially in the context of poverty reduction, this already has a new quality. As a whole, I have heard this more often, but in the fight against poverty it is unusual because we know exactly where poverty occurs. If I look at how this pension reform will affect the minimum pensioners in particular, I have to say that we know that poverty is increasing. The answer is that for the then 65- or 70-year-olds the companies are supposed to make the compensation, which is, I think, more than neoliberal, or as always one might call it. That is how this ideology should be valued in my eyes. That is why, in the next few years, as long as you're on the row, a lot of strange things can happen in our country. On page 20 there is a similar passage. It says: “High taxes are a sign of the welfare state old embossing.” – And further: “Rising taxes means giving freedom!” I have also heard from you that you are also in favour of self retention in the health system, because self retention is not subject to the tax rate and therefore this simply has a better fiscal effect. But if you look at reality, you can see how different contributions and contributions or self-retaining have an effect. Self retention is paid only by those who are ill, while solidarity funding always means there is a risk distribution. And of this you think, I believe, in budgetary policy relatively little. I have to say, I see this with very mixed feelings. Your first budget speeches have contained more plausible sentences, but your ideology, which is now breaking through, was so clearly never felt. I think that this country can do a lot of things if you can drive here for a long time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] But let us return to the educational budget to which you have now meant in my back that this is already in line with household law. – Nobody has certainly claimed that you are wrong in the budget parts. It may be. The fact that your statement corresponds to budgetary law that expenditure will rise to over €9 billion is also formally correct. But I already ask you the question: Do you know how the OECD is measuring educational expenditure? – This is where expenditure will only be measured. I'm wondering now: What data does Austria provide to the OECD? Will the OECD also be forwarding this plus €800 million in the future, and will it be said at once that Austria has increased its educational expenditure dramatically by comparison because the universities there are marked by a massive increase? In this case, I can already imagine what the next OECD 2004 report will do without a substantial change. If you are talking about OECD cleaning, you know as well as I do that the data will be transmitted by the countries, according to the criteria set out. By the way, it was said that the tuition fees will benefit the universities as a whole. 2001, in the year of introduction of the study fees: € 1.656 billion budget. Then, 2002, there was an increase of € 81 million, and now, 2003, a reduction of € 107 million. In other words, we now have a university funding which is below the level of time before the introduction of tuition fees. That is to say, what is also provided for by law is that these funds are completely inflow, simply not being respected, because the budget is cut on the other hand. This is a form of a financial policy that already appears very "interesting" and "creative". [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Last point, similar quality: Hourly cuts in school. I have to say that I have been blinded for a long time, that I have thought, okay, if the Ministry delivers the data and compares the OECD, then there will already be a lot of it. If these measures are planned, you will also have to look at them in detail. If you calculate this, you can see, easily predict that Austria simply supplied false data and in de facto we are slightly above the OECD average in the hours, with this reduction below. All of this could still be discussed, if it were a pedagogically meaningful reform, if it were to be useful to finally get away from the fact that there is very little funding in Austria, that there is very little additional offer, that especially weaker students get too few offers. - But all this doesn't happen. It should be a strict reduction, a strict deletion. In an international comparison, let us see how this affects! This is also somewhat more concrete, because the PISA study is far from as easily falsifiable as what has been supplied to data from the Ministry of Financial Data. We will then see whether this will have an impact, particularly in the fields of foreign languages, in the fields of natural sciences – the next focus of the PISA study. I'm already excited what the Minister of Education will say. Then Austria will no longer be ‘world class’ and ‘European class’, and perhaps this is at last the chance that in Austria one will get away from seeing education policy first and foremost as a spasm!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14334	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14352	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! My speech concerns – how can it be different? – also the issue of pension insurance. As a young Member of Parliament, I support this reform for a single reason: because I still prefer less pensions than none at all. And if we didn't do anything, that would be the case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With our young people's commitment to the three-pillar model, that is to say, to provide for ourselves, a big step towards solidarity on our part has been taken. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Who has the money for it?- Oh, my God!]] Private provision within the meaning of the third pillar is also capital, which has not yet been necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: We've heard that so often! It won't be better!]] If I see that the average duration of training has increased by three years – we have heard it today – the employment rate has been shorter by six years and the pension period is longer by twelve years, then it is actually not solidary by the older generation, I have to hold that if only 3 percent of the older population actually retires in the statutory retirement age. And if the proportion of 55-64-year-olds is only 28.6 percent, this is not really very fair either. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If I calculate what would happen if we didn't change anything in this area, I notice that in 2030 a representative of my generation would have to receive a pensioner and this would be about 30 to 40 percent of the average income. If I added to the health insurance, taxes and other charges, the public service et cetera, I note that two thirds of the income would be cut off, i.e. only one third would remain, and at the latest then the generation contract and the generation solidarity would be tipped. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My generation would even go a step further and add to the current debate that we would expect much higher and even more serious contributions from some – which I can understand – of the current pensioners! I would also like to stress this here. Another point that concerns me is not whether I will receive a pension or not in the future, but rather the question of the impact this situation has on Austria. It must be noted that the reforms we are now making have already been implemented ten years ago by neighbouring states and Nordic states, resulting in much less money being spent on pensions by the state. Therefore, there is also much more space there to invest in other things, such as in research and development. In the long term, this is also a question of the labour market, a question of competition, competitiveness, and, ultimately, a question of employment. That's why I'm worried as a young person right now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: Yes, yes! 40 percent less pension!]] That is to say, these reforms are to be supported, coupled with a point that is thanks also to God in the government programme; I can say that he was also brought in by my side. – It is about the demand for a redistribution of the earnings sum, because for two reasons this is crucial: On the one hand, the principle of seniority is generally not appropriate in the salary scheme because high investments are made at the beginning of working life: At this time, property is created, families are founded, and not shortly before the pension! The current pay schedule shows, however, that the highest pay rises before retirement, and not at the beginning of working life. This is a completely false assessment of the situation of life. Therefore, a redistribution of the amount of living is more than necessary, also for the reason, because, if you have to provide privately, there must also be something that you can put on the side to save it. I also call on the social partners to open negotiations in the private sector – in the public service – in the sense of a new collective treaty regime. Finally, I would like to say something, also addressed to the trade unions in relation to the strike. I have received a lot of emails from students who are concerned about getting problems with the matura, for a single reason: In an e-mail it says – I quote –: I personally had the happiness of coming from Tulln to Heiligenstadt with the ÖBB, from there on foot to the school. My Vienna classmates didn't have it that easy. Three colleagues who live near Perchtoldsdorf and normally cross the main line of invasion to Vienna have seen the solution of the problem, the strike, in camping in front of the school building and sleeping on parking benches. - Quote. I don't think that's the appropriate preparation for a matura! I don't think you should put stones in the way of the boys.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14470	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14489	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Luckily, Mr Bartenstein has now disappeared from the corner, otherwise one should have said: We have the second largest government team for many, many decades – and no one government representative is worth sitting on the government bank. This is the "obedience" that you bring to this Parliament! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that the Secretary of State or the Minister of Finance does not even find time to follow this debate here is already a huge disregard for this Parliament. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to point out to the previous speaker, Mr Fuhrmann, that she can easily speak. She comes from a good family association, there is a large winery at her home. This is not an accusation – but there you can easily talk about private provision. [[Objection and interlocutory calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It's easy to talk about private care. You can easily talk about how you can afford the third pillar, ladies and gentlemen. The great majority of workers are not able to spend large amounts of money in order to approach this uncertain instrument. We all know – and you know that, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – that the income of additional pensions from this area of the so-called third pillar depends on the changing stock markets. And we have heard many examples today of how these revenues can be reduced dramatically. Therefore, I can only hope that colleague Fuhrmann has spoken for a minority of the young generation and that the other people will insist that the state fulfill its commitment in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neudeck meant that strike was such a thing that workers were not allowed to do on this issue. The Minister of Finance has said that he will “give freedom”. – I can assure you that the workers in this Republic will be freed and will not allow them to be granted! They will take the liberty and demonstrate for their concerns whenever they believe it is necessary! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Third point: The Minister of Finance has greatly strengthened the concept of credibility in politics. I would also like to highlight and question the credibility of the politicians concerned, namely the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State. The Minister of Finance wrote a letter in June 2000 which begins as follows – I quote: Dear Colonel! As I have repeatedly had the opportunity to insure, there is no reason to transfer the customs guard to the interior. On the contrary, I believe it is necessary, in view of the changes that have occurred in Austria with the accession of the Eastern European countries to the European Union, to involve them more and more in the fight against general tax fraud and to further develop customs guards into customs and financial guards. - Quote. Very interesting this statement, I can only tell you! A little later, Mr Finz's opinion followed; you will be able to advise the date of this letter. Finz writes – I quote –: Ladies and gentlemen of the customs guard! A modern customs and financial guard is one of the three main pillars in the Federal Ministry of Finance and is therefore indispensable as an independent guard. Moving this modern and efficient instrument to another resort is neither intended nor part of a programme of the ÖVP. - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: When was that?]] Ladies and gentlemen! How will he fulfill this, Mr Finz? - Since 1. In May, in other words, for a few days, this whole area of over 2,000 officials is part of the Ministry of the Interior. [[Call the SPÖ:Öha!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What has the Secretary of State and the Minister of Finance actually done? You have – how do you say? – said an untruth. They have deliberately said the untruth. And in the Duden says: A conscious untruth is a lie. Ladies and gentlemen! So you yourself can imagine the credibility of the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State in this area. This "belief" comes through many measures in this budget, and I am convinced that the people will remember these things very clearly. I don't need to say any more, because it's been bubbling hugely in the ÖVP. Mr. Halbmayr, Executive Director of Post AG, withdraws – a very competent manager, I would like to say – with the remark that he can no longer carry this policy, the sale of Post AG. The head of the teachers' union, from ÖAAB, withdraws because he can no longer carry this policy of the ÖVP. – Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You're on the best way! Happy for the next elections, because the voters will run away from you!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14588	I call Mrs Fuhrmann. Speech time: 2 minutes. I would ask that the facts to be corrected and the actual facts be accurately reflected. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14609	I quote Mr Parnigoni, who said in his statement that I am from a well-favoured family and my parents have a big winery. - That's wrong! It's true that my father's an employee and my mother's housewife. But beyond that: Self-care should not be a question of classes. I apologize for this class struggle that is being initiated here.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14644	Mrs Fuhrmann, the first part was completely fine, a second part will not happen next time in the form. The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14666	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Weinzinger makes himself in relation to the budget Consider whether femininity is contained in it, whether it is called “official ” or“ official. ” – I would like to tell you that in the German anthem, too, it is called “home you are great sons” – do we also write “sisters” for this? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] “One leave in brotherly choirs” – do we also write “sisters” for this? I am quite prepared to have a discussion with you on this, but today we are talking about the budget, so we are staying at the budget. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The draft budget of this government for 2003 and 2004 shows that it is an essential factor for us to secure prosperity in Austria and thus to deal with it forward-looking and responsibly for the next generations. Social standards, ensuring the health system and social peace for the future are at the heart of us. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Where your focus is, we know: on the street and not here in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Even in difficult times, such as those in which economic activity has been hit, this federal government will show how responsibly it implements policy. We focus on the people in this country who have chosen us, and we deal with them as they do: responsible, forward-looking – both for people and for our country. For agriculture, the 3-billion-€ package is fully implemented. This is an incredibly important measure, especially for our small-structured agriculture and for consumers. The quality assurance of our products remains, the environmentally conscious approach in our agriculture is ensured. This too is a achievement for people and our quality of life. The budget for environmental measures from 2004 to 2006 will also be increased from € 30 million to € 90 million in order to reach the Kyoto target. An intact environment is also a prerequisite for ensuring the quality of life in our country. The success of this government's policy so far gives us the right to: We have the third lowest unemployment rate in Europe, the youth unemployment rate is lower than in the rest of Europe. The risk for older workers to become unemployed is kept as low as possible by special measures. These measures will invest €4 million this year. – We can also thank this government for this. Ladies and gentlemen! People expect us – and finally we have been elected – that we not only have visions but also implement them. Despite the objective of a zero deficit, which will continue to be our goal, a small budget deficit can be purchased in a world-wide difficult situation to help the economy. Of course, we do not want to lose sight of the goal of achieving a zero deficit by 2006. I have followed Mr Cap's statement very closely this morning. I had the impression that his appearance was more similar to that of a marketist and was nailed with half-truths. – Save the viewers and us! True is: The Social Democrats have managed to say and write 162 billion € in 30 years of government Amass debts. This means €7 billion per year in interest charges. They managed to decide on a budget deficit of more than 5 percent each year until the 1990s. I miss the responsibility for the people of our country in the opposition. Dialogue is not required with you, cooperation is boycotted – sleek stepping does not lead to success! Take care of your responsibility for Austria and the people in this country! Anxiety and uncertainty are not the basis for a good policy. I personally thank, on behalf of many people, especially our liberal government members under the leadership of Vice Chancellor Herbert Haupt for implementing the quality of freedom policy for people in our country in this double budget in 2003/2004.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14751	Mrs Mandak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14769	Mr President. High house! Mrs Fuhrmann, you say that this pension reform is preferable to none at all. I would like to encourage you not to resign now. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] If you resign after 30 years of political work, it is understandable. Don't resign, use for the best possible variant, but this is not this pension reform! You know that, I know, we know. Sit for the better! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A lot of fear-making has already been said today. [[Abg. Steibl: You do that too, that is the work of the opposition!]] Well, you don't have to worry at all, but you can see, and as a family spokesperson of the Greens, I note that family silver will continue to be scrapped in Austria in the coming year. Unfortunately, the biggest disaster action has already taken place. The most valuable pieces – I remember pretiosen such as the Austrian tobacco, a golden donkey – have already been sold. [[Abg. Schweisgut: What does this have to do with a family speaker?]] Now it is about selling 61,000 federal apartments, far below their value. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: No, not under their worth!]] It's just that you, Minister, get money into your cash register. This is about every cent, and that is exactly the money that will be missing in the future for the housing-seekers or for housing-building in Austria. They say that the state – a bad businessman, as you see him – should withdraw entirely from the housing area. This is your ideology behind it. What is the alternative? – The alternative is that the housing market will leave real estate companies who, of course, try to rent these apartments under profit maximization. And that is not what we imagine under a social policy in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We insist that the state also assumes responsibility in the housing area, also takes care of those who cannot afford properties that cannot pay high rental fees and who have always found favourable housing opportunities in the field of non-profit or state housing. Don't take out these housing options, Minister. The second part of the family silver is the welfare state of Austria. The welfare state of Austria has always been a quality feature for this state, but here too you want to remove radically. You said yesterday, in your budget speech, that the welfare state should be abolished, you are well aware of this. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I said: the welfare state old embossed!]] The welfare state of old embossing – that is the welfare state, as we know it. I'm with this welfare state, but I know you have different goals. You think if you lower taxes, then that means giving freedom. That sounds crazyly good and even rubs itself. But we ask ourselves: Freedom for whom? To whom does that bring the much praised freedom? It certainly doesn't bring freedom to those who have low and lowest income; you can be sure of that. This small relief of taxes that you are all the time addressing – you know that exactly, and that is really annoying – is more than eaten up by the burdens you are planning in the field of energy taxation and self retention. In other words, under the rule of law, people, especially those involved, are Relating to low incomes, paying more than before. The risk of poverty has increased in recent years, especially for women and pensioners. Your pension reform, the To plan to implement it will further strengthen this trend, the shear will open up even further. You made a very clear commitment to liberalisation, deregulation and privatisation yesterday. I believe that many who sit in this room are not yet clear what this confession means, namely: the adoption of the state out of its social responsibility, the release of social benefits! On the basis of your comments, I have the worst fears in connection with the GATS negotiations, which are currently under way and concluded. Minister! We cannot go along with this policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14867	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. – You have the floor, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14885	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser, in his budget speech yesterday, presented comprehensively the situation of our state. We all know that the world economy is currently struggling with great difficulties. Wars and terrorist attacks have led to economic collapses and rising unemployment throughout Europe. Austria was also hit by a flood disaster last year. Many people in our country are therefore insecure. I certainly don't need to tell you, either. If there is little investment and consumption, it means a breakdown for the economy, which also causes job losses and taxes to be lost. There are these problems everywhere in Europe, and Austria is in the middle of it. Nevertheless, I would like to say that, thanks to the excellent policy of our Federal Government under Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, we have succeeded in preventing serious intrusions here in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I think above all of our neighbouring country Germany; I live only a few kilometres away. We have always been economically connected with Germany, but under the red-green government, which is making a wrong policy, the number of unemployed in Germany in April 2003 has increased again by about 750 000 compared with April 2002. The mood is very depressing; I know that, I talk a lot to the people there. In Austria, on the other hand, the number of employees increased by around 38 000 or 1.22 percent in April 2003 compared with last year. 3 160 000 employees in Austria – the number has never been as high as today, but this must also be recognized by the opposition! Do you think the arguments are going on? Mr Parnigoni had to defame our youngest Members before – I think there is a real lack of counter-arguments both in the SPÖ and in the Greens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These data show me that the reforms made under the government of our Federal Chancellor Schüssel were very good. Our government will continue to make a good and forward-looking policy. With 4.1 percent, we have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU. These figures can be seen in economically difficult times, as I mean. But what we also need is a comprehensive tax reform. The first stage is already taking place in January 2004. Citizens and entrepreneurs will be relieved, and income providers with less than €14 500 per year will not pay any more taxes at all. This, in turn, means an improvement for Austria as a consumer and economic location. Our pension system is also adapted. Demographic changes make this necessary. The average number of pension years has increased from nine to 20 years in the last 30 years. Without reform, this system will simply not be eligible for funding. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank our Minister for Agriculture Sepp Pröll for keeping the budget figures for agriculture. Farmers' incomes on the market fell by 5 percent last year. I therefore very much welcome the compensatory payments and the €3 billion package for the environment and agriculture of the Federal budget. They are absolutely necessary in order to secure the income of farmers and also the management. In my view, it is particularly important to promote rural development. Some €120 million will go into the adaptation and development of rural areas: vocational training, the establishment of young farmers, forestry measures and agricultural investment. In 2004 there will even be around €140 million. The total budget for agriculture is around €2 billion. As a next step – I have already stressed it – tax reform must also come for agriculture, because it is important that we can produce under the same conditions as other farmers in the EU countries. Only in this way can our farmers continue to produce healthy food and make important investments. With this budget, the Austrian Federal Government is showing responsibility and competence. This will bring further positive development for Austria and its citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14961	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14980	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, after the presentation of this double budget – which, by the way, is not the first one, as Mr Walch, I believe, has imagined – one can really say that the paint is off of this reform government and that this government, with its demands, which it has imparted to us in 2000, is now ad absurd, on the basis of its specific policy. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Can be satisfied! Very satisfied can be!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is, of course, another summit of a unsuccessful marketing Gag that is announced the largest tax reform of the Second Republic, but which then looks so concrete for about 1.3 million people that they can expect 40 cents of tax savings per month. I don't want to look back, we're just looking at the last nine months. There have been national elections, and it has taken a relatively long time for a budget draft to be presented. This was not to the detriment of the state, however, because, on the basis of existing regulations, this restrictive and economical policy had been imposed on the Federal Government, and because of various measures the financial viability was actually at risk. I believe that your freedom, which you are talking about here, Mr Federal Minister, cannot really benefit the masses of the Austrians, because I believe that the freedom you think is unfair to the ASVG workers, unfair to young people and children in the broadest sense and that it will, of course, also have a very dissolidating effect within the social groups. This is already noted by the example of the farmers, who have mainly benefited their prosperity from the solidarity distribution of the last 30 years, because their funding is financed by the workers. Today's opinions on these warning strikes have already sounded very strange. You don't seem to know where the Bartl's gonna get the must. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Do you know where you are at home?]] – Dear Walter, I know where I am at home. [[in the direction of the Abg. Murauer]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Do you know where Bartl gets the must? Or was that a threat?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You're just talking about what things are. [[Don't call the ÖVP:Don't!]] I believe that this “ Save Who Can!” government – I believe Josef Broukal has called it that way – is really on the run. The arguments with which you try to get over the rounds – such as that of the lower purchasing power in Austria or the way you interpreted the positive trade balance here – are, I would say, really notable arguments. I believe that the positive balance of trade as well as the highest rate of employment have only been shown one-sidedly here, because it is true that we have the highest employment rate in Austria historically, but we also have the highest unemployment rate in the Second Republic, ladies and gentlemen! And this is probably ignored here. As far as the structure of employment is concerned, Mr Drunkl, one should really discuss these. Where do the many employees come from, and what is the structure of employment policy in Austria? It was Col Bucher who said: “In order that work and performance may be worthwhile in our country again. ” – Mr Bucher, you are new to this House, and I personally do not want to agree on the right to argue in this way, but certainly your group. And as a representative of the FPÖ, you are really denied this right, because the blue-black German government has provided Austria with the highest tax rate in the second Republic over the last three years – it has really produced record charges! – there is the lowest income growth in history in Austria, and we have the highest debt there has ever been in the Second Republic, and it continues to rise. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're talking about the time until 1999, aren't you? You're a little bit behind your time!]] My final sentence: Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! They essentially secure the airspace, but they create uncertainty in Austria's social fabric.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15093	The next speaker is Mr Lichtenegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15112	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I'm going to deal a little bit with the sports budget so that it doesn't get forgotten. We have several projects on the agenda or on our agenda. First of all, this is the 2008 football challenge. It is about promoting an Austrian national team that will represent us as well as possible at the home-EM in 2008 ==References== A budget of €363,000 is planned for this purpose. To do this, I have to say: That's a good thing! We'll hopefully see it all in 2008. There is another challenge called “Athens 2004”. There, too, athletes are generously encouraged to participate in the 2004 Summer Olympics and to perform as many good performances as possible. Hiefor each year another € 1 million is estimated. I have to say that is a very generous offer, and I am very glad that this has persisted. In addition, there will be football Em 2008 with a total of four venues, namely Innsbruck, Salzburg, Klagenfurt and Vienna. This is also carried very generously by the federal government in terms of the construction or renewal and adaptation of stadiums. The Federal Sports Promotion Act basically provides basic support for the associations, but it also promotes the development of the sports structures. It is promoted to girls' and women's sports. There are always innovative sports projects that come to grips with them. It also provides a start-up aid for new professional organisations that want to enter the BSO. And: We also promote the sport of disabled people for the first time. As far as this issue is concerned, it is already a little thoughtful for me – in the year of the disabled! – today a letter from the sports leaders of the Vienna state government, in which it is said – I quote –: Equality of the ÖBSV – that is, the Austrian Disabled Sports Association – with the roof associations referred to in the German Sports Promotion Act would thus lead to a reduction in the funding of more than 40 percent of all recognised sports in Vienna. This would have the effect of favouring the sports supported by ÖBSV in the area of federal funding. It is therefore suggested that the amendment of the draft be abandoned as a whole. - Quote. This is already a bit strong if one accepts the disabled in the year and then receives such a letter from the Vienna colleagues! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I can also say that this year we have €1.5 million more in special sports promotions available than in the previous year. This applies equally to the year 2004 – as opposed to the presentation of Mr Wittmann, who, as I have to say, already has a somewhat peculiar way of pursuing policy: During the Sports Committee, State Secretary Karl Schweitzer announced the amounts just mentioned – and during this sports committee a press release by Mr Wittmann was received, claiming that there would be less money for Austrian sport in the next few years, namely, €20 million less! – So this is not my understanding of constructive policy and not my way of running politics. I'd like to stick to the truth. By the way, Mr Wittmann has also sent me a press release that he is still for the sports billions. To do this, I have to say: It's not that easy, and I'm glad we got the budget we've got now. We should try to use the money we have as efficiently and effectively as possible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] By the way, he himself was long enough State Secretary and as such would have had the opportunity to realize that. At the time, he was still far away from the budget we have today with his budget. To that end, I must thank the Minister of Finance for not forgetting the athletes either. I can assure you: We will do everything we can to ensure that to be answered with the appropriate services. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15200	Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15218	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Lichtenegger has now spoken about sport and also the truth, and because Mr Schweitzer is also present, I have to take a brief look at yesterday's debate. Mr. State Secretary Schweitzer, it is true that in London and New York the elite runners start about 30 minutes before the rest of the field. If you don't believe it, I'll show you. - I just wanted to say that here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come to talk about the budget. Mr Finanzminister, your yesterday's budget speech was just as bad for words like "future" and "Sustainability" – loud terms, which are of course important, no question. I have only found interesting that global topics – especially since they are not only in Austria, but also in other parts of the world about the future and sustainability – have not occurred in your budget speech, and if, then, only in terms of the world economy and its impact on Austria. But whether what is happening in Austria might have any effect on other parts of the world, was not talking about it. I miss this because, finally and finally, what is happening in Austria, both in the field of development cooperation and in the field of economic promotion, will have an impact on sustainability in other parts of the world. And that should also happen in a budget speech! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But that does not really surprise me, because even in the Government Declaration there was very little to read from foreign policy as a whole, and in so doing this clearly shows a common line of this government: What's important is what's happening in Austria! Everything else in the world doesn't really count. Minister! Future and sustainability are not only playing on the “island Austria” – we are not living on any island anymore, for a long time now! - or only on the European continent. Austria also has a co-responsible for the future and sustainability worldwide – both as a state and as regards the way in which the budget is distributed and spent. I must admit, however, that this budget takes at least one step at a time in order to improve something after criticism has been given by both us and various organisations in Austria for years and decades, namely in terms of development cooperation: For the first time in many years, there will be an increase of about €30 million, in the area established in the foreign office. I can really say: This is finally a first step! I hope, Minister, that not only, as you said yesterday in your budget speech, you see this as an important concern of the Foreign Minister – we know it is – but also that you see this as an important concern for yourself and for the rest of the Federal Government, because the Foreign Minister alone does not make the budget. It is already necessary that you and the entire Federal Government take this important too, even in the future! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That's why I put it in the budget speech...!]] I am pleased that you have said that, but I have to say that it is so important for the Foreign Minister to have a little doubt as to how important it is for the entire federal government. If you now say that you have taken it into the budget speech, well, then I take it seriously and wait for it and hope that in the 2005 and 2006 budgets – should you still be responsible for what I doubt – the increase to the 0.33 percent EU average – this is a commitment at EU level! – will actually give and this amount will not be reduced again. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Oillinger: We hope not!]] – In this respect, of course, I give my colleague the right to: We do not really hope that you will be in charge of the budget. But that's what others will decide. Perhaps your former party colleagues will decide. We'll see. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] I therefore give you the right to: There's been an improvement here. – But I would like to mention another aspect which also concerns Austria's international responsibility and in which you talk only about the effects in Austria, namely export promotion! You're saying: Export promotion continues to be of great importance in the context of site policy. They want to continue this successful path for the Austrian economy. In the two budgets, you want to spend €25 million more on another export offensive, or you did it, and implement it with the Chamber of Commerce. – I have no objection and the Greens have nothing to do with it. The question is: What are the criteria for awarding these funds, and what about transparency? And here we know – we have already discussed this with State Secretary Finz in a number of committees – that: There's still a lot to be done! There are far better measures in other countries to ensure that export guarantees that projects carried out by Austrian economic operators abroad – in particular those of Asia, the successor countries of the Soviet Union, African and Latin America – do not have any harmful effects on the population there or the environment there. Environmental criteria have already been observed to some extent, but that is not enough. And above all: No one gets it. It will not be published. Although there are now initial steps on the part of the Control Bank in this respect, I expect an Austrian Finance Minister to say that in his budget speech, he does not just say: In this way, we can secure jobs in Austria in a sustainable way. – I don’t mind him saying that, but it would have to be mentioned too: For example, we can contribute to environmental and social sustainable development in the countries of Africa, Asia, Latin America and the successor countries of the Soviet Union. – This is also the responsibility of Austria! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Trunk.]] It would be nice if one of these superlatives, which has always occurred in your budget speech – this is the best and the best, and so much has never been done for research, for families, for education and for infrastructure and so on – even once in this context and if it would be called: We have now finally implemented something so that these expenditures of Austria in the countries of Africa, Asia and Latin America really do have to do something positive and therefore no one has to doubt that there may be something ecologically wrong, or that the population there may have to leave the area because of a dam project, without only being spoken of in any way of compensation. So I expect you to do so in the future, and I hope you will take care of it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These many superlatives have already made me proud – I just come to talk about it. [[Abg. Oillingers: They don't vote either! They're not right!]] The many superlatives in your budget speech, Mr Minister, leave alone because they are constantly marked with call and because They are so “superlative” that they have doubts about how seriously the saying is meant!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15320	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have to understand the interests of your group – I can read it a little bit at the game of mine.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15341	I know, Mr President. I too have already heard this, I know the signs of my colleagues. – I am also at the end of the sentence, ladies and gentlemen. Minister: Never – in order to be the superlative, which actually belongs to the budget speech, to apply the completeness even here – has a budget speech so bragged about empty words and false promises!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15374	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. – Do I have to take a look at the ants in your speech, or is that not necessary for you? - No, I don't. Good. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15393	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Spanish daily “El País” in Madrid wrote on 6 June. May: “The first strike after half a century of social peace marks an abrupt change for the eight million Austrians used to consensus...” Ladies and gentlemen! At the latest since such press releases we need to think, because the strength of the Austrians was always the fact that we can talk about something and always have found a reasonable solution. [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Why don't you do that?]] Mr President, I should like to thank In a country of living solidarity such as Austria, the negotiating table is discussed, and it is not acceptable for me to interrupt parliamentary democracy by strike. [[Abg. Oils: Right! – There is no one!]] [[Abg. Oiller: Where is he, the negotiating table?]] [[Abg. Oils: Oh! That's beyond!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Parliament has not been covered!]] – I said: parliamentary democracy! [[Abg. Oellinger: You do not know how parliamentary democracy works!]] I think you should come to the negotiating table, and you don't do this because you don't have any solutions because you're just in the opposition and you're afraid! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Future needs responsibility. In order to secure pensions for all, especially for the young, as already mentioned by my colleague, Mr Fuhrmann, in the future, we must now take the necessary steps and at the same time maintain the generation agreement. [[Abg. Silhavy: Does the style still have any meaning? Does the President-in-Office have any significance for you?]] That is, my colleague, Sil-havy: increasing social security and ensuring social security too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy:... the President of the Federal Government?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Women make the most important contribution to generation solidarity through child rearing and the care of close relatives. This is precisely where we used family policy measures on the part of the government to implement this pension reform and set new standards. I would like to mention a few of them: For example, from now on, 24 months of child rearing are considered to be pensionable. There are now additional supplements of 50 percent to child care for twins and drillings or multiple births. Up to three years of childhood education are taken into account in the calculation. That means – and this is always watered by you – that a woman with two children, for example, is not affected by the increase in the calculation period by 2010. [[Abg. Sburny:... exactly in the three-year distance...!]] . So there are no disadvantages for women, for example, as Mr Csörgits claimed in a press release. Ladies and gentlemen! 340 million € more for Austrian families! This year, we will also spend €4.8 billion on family policy, and Austria will therefore remain the most family-friendly country in Europe in the future, because children represent only 20 percent of the population, but they represent 100 percent of the future of our country. I come to the end of my speech and I would like to end by adding a quote that hopefully stimulates my reflection: “People are very open to new things – as long as they are only exactly the same.” – Charles F. Kettering (1876 – 1958), American industrialist. I don't think there's anything to add to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15589	Mr Herzegovina. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15607	Mr President. Representative of the Minister for Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It's kind of funny: Mrs Steibl has been fleeing in past centuries and in Spanish newspapers. [[Abg. Steibl: Mr. Col., you're fleeing too! I don't see you anywhere!]] I also understand this to a certain degree: The Austrian newspapers, Mrs Steibl, are apparently not entirely according to your taste. The “Small Newspaper”, which you otherwise very much appreciate daily, writes: “A packaging artist surprises with advertising statements”, “Karl-Heinz Grasser delivers a bad premiere for the budget speech.” If you ask me, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say: It's not a bad premiere – that's why this line of down is not true – it's actually a bad song. I do not believe that this Minister of Finance will ever give a budget speech here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Until yesterday, Mr. Drinkl, it was claimed that Karl-Heinz Grasser was a presentational speaker, multimedial. Actually, he wanted to visualize his budget speech – it's a pity that it didn't happen, it would certainly have been very interesting to see the fish and the water and this embarrassing praise that he poured out over the ministerial colleagues – represented in pie diagrams, curves and beams. In the media, the Minister of Finance is very present, but in Parliament he is acting strangely – this is now proved impressive, since only the Secretary of State gives us the honour. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: What does “more than that” mean?]] This is also the case in the U.S. Board of Auditors. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: At your speech it's better, he's not here! That's so uninteresting for him!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the “Small Investigation Committee”, Mrs Partik-Pablé – which is according to the Committee of Inquiry, as you know, the strongest control instrument here in Parliament – the conduct of the Minister of Finance in connection with the ÖIAG is now being reviewed. And the Minister of Finance said in his budget speech that he was going to disband these ÖIAGs. In this committee we want to discuss with him the development of the ÖIAG – it is about 100 000 jobs, about billions of taxpayers, the voestalpine, the post, where it goes down and above, as we know on a daily basis, about Böhler Uddeholm and many more. In the newspaper comments, Grasser is accused of asking for a dividend of €300 million, to demand an increase in value and to make an appointment in sales. It is referred to as a ‘sumplified’ and as a ‘frozen’ – as far as ‘The Standard’ is concerned. We also want to discuss with the Minister for Finance there the €4.3 million, which has been spent on a zero-deficit study and has therefore been thrown away pointlessly, as we know, because a zero deficit cannot be the case at all. Ladies and gentlemen! In this “small investigation committee” I have requested that the Minister of Finance give us the honour and discuss with us sometime before the summer – quite harmlessly as an information person. In this committee there are ten ÖVP delegates, eight SPÖ delegates, two of the FPÖ and two of the Greens, the Presidency is holding the ÖVP, the negotiations are confidential – and the ÖVP and the FPÖ have rejected this request! Until summer, the Minister of Finance has no minute to discuss ÖIAG here in Parliament. [[Call the SPÖ: Bad conscience!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This has nothing more to do with dialogue, outstretched hands and these things, but it has long been a question of respect for Parliament, respect for democratic processes and constitutional tasks of Members. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In fact, there are two possibilities: a continuation of the pathetic process as at the time by Mrs. Forstinger or Mr. Finanzminister ensures his presence, even before the summer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] I hope, Mr State Secretary, that you will do this to him, that he will not go to this level and say that he wants to come, but he has prevented the majority from doing so. I believe that at this low level the Minister of Finance will not go to himself. So: Either the Minister of Finance comes and argues in the relevant body of the National Council, or the procedure is as pathetic as in the past and as pitiful as the Minister's yesterday's budget speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15708	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15729	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, a wealth of extensive discussions have already been held, details from this draft budget, but also the rhetorical flakes and superficialities of yesterday's speech by Minister of Finance Grasser have been intensively analyzed and discussed. I would like to focus a little on the thoughtful background of these texts and the draft budgets, and I would like to take a closer look at the message that Minister of Finance, Grasser, wants to send us here, which is the core of this message. I would like to start where this Federal Government continued, namely in 1999/2000, when it clearly tried to introduce a new concept for Austria – then under the slogan “Rerule Austria”. There the Minister of Finance again took a bond with his slogan “Rethinking Austria”. What does that mean in its context? – With “rethinking Austria”, he says, the key to a tax relief and the recovery of the economy was found. What is the core of this new thinking? – “Entrepreneurship is a culture of thinking and brings prosperity and employment”. Entrepreneurship is thinking culture! So: Entrepreneurs think – and other people work! Man thinks and someone works, that's obviously the idea of trying to convey the grass. We need more of it, he says. It's related, and that's clear: “Private is better than the state” – a neoliberal, self-evident claim and approach. “Privatisation secures jobs,” says the Embassy. Of course, thinking from the point of view of entrepreneurship also means: Not to tax foundations, with workers, pensioners, taxpayers to be increasingly exhausted. [[Abg. Silhavy: Get in the bag!]] To get into the bag – correct, so it is, colleague Silhavy. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Thank God she said something to you!]] “The proof of social competence” is also a very good passus of this budget speech – I come back to what Mr Wittauer, who is not currently in the hall, did not understand, namely the question of what gender mainstreaming means. It simply means analyzing laws as to how they affect men and women. There it is literally said – a proof of “social competence”; I quote –: “No of the more than 2 million... Pensioners have something to fear: whether... Workers, employees, farmers or traders...’ It is all just a question of male pensions, it is not also about what happens to women in this process. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Wittauer should really do this! Gender mainstreaming is a matter of course for us Green, is an EU concept: Please direct this to him, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! What does this new thinking mean for agriculture?– I've only heard from the agricultural representatives: Wonderfully, the agricultural budget is secured; Mr Donabauer, 3 billion – I was always in favour of ensuring this package for agriculture. [[Abg. Donabauer: We are not concerned with the amount alone, we are talking about agricultural policy as a whole!]] But what does that mean in the context of this neoliberal economic concept? What does it mean, if you think it through, for agriculture? What does “more private” mean for agriculture? – Massive farmer mortality, no more compensation for miners and mountain farmers, would be the consequence of “more private”, not sufficient rural pensions, because of the age pyramid, of course, higher subsidies are necessary. [[Abg. Donabauer: That is not in question!]] It would also mean less bureaucracy – it will be attacked again and again; but that would mean no question. It would also mean less environmental awareness, less environmental promotion, Mr Donabauer, and less advice and less innovation for farmers. [[Abg. Donabauer: That's what we've secured! That's the positive thing about the budget!]] . This should be brought more into the debate as an agricultural representative. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You should discuss this, instead of talking or saying the word about deregulation – this is actually the incredible one: They keep silent about cashing down and leaving the other population in the rain! [[Abg. Donabauer: Have a good time!]] This does not bear witness to a social conscience, it is not a social process! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To this end, we can only say: Misthinked and gone wrong, Mr Donabauer! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Donabauer.]] Not only do society's solidarity for the legitimate concerns of rural agriculture call for verbally, but it is also true, solidarity for the workers, farmers, the disadvantaged groups of this society, you should do so, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Donabauer: Here you can take an example of us, there we are good on the road!]] Therefore, you should reset this pension reform until autumn. And you'll see she'll succeed, colleague Donabauer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15880	Mrs Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15899	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to admit that today's debate has really shaken me. She shook me because when I was about 20 years old, i.e. during my studies, colleagues and I not only discussed once, but often discussed when the politicians there would finally understand that there was a need to do something about pensions. And we were actually quite united in it: They'll always be too cowardly to do that, because they'll have to think about the day after tomorrow and not just the next choice, and they'll never do that! I am mistakenly proud that we are, the ÖVP, this federal government and every one of our Members – we stand out every day and talk to people, explain things to them, clarify them – which finally fulfil this responsibility! [[Abg. Reheis: They don't do that, Karin! You refuse the discussion!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am proud of the ÖVP, of this federal government! And I can tell you: These “Brösel”... – Dear Gerhard Reheis, I also know that it is not easy to go out and say: [[Abg. Reheis: But really, I can prove that! All the political groups were there, not the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Donabauer: Mr Colleague! I was everywhere I was invited!]] We need that! to talk to people every day, to explain to them and to tell them why this is important, because it doesn't matter otherwise. The good thing about it is to see that people understand, understand and understand that we – in good German – do not do these “broods” if it is not necessary! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Reheis: The FPÖ is going, but you are not!]] What we are doing is to take on even more responsibility in many areas and to pursue a sustainable policy in many ways: for example, with regard to pension reform, where not only – as is the case with the opposition parties – will be thought of the next election day, but also of future generations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Furthermore, a sustainable and fundamental policy, for example, with regard to a healthy environment or sustainable development, in order to finally have the necessary resources to achieve the Kyoto target, €30 million in the next year, €60 million in the next year. [[Abg. Silhavy: This is cabaret-like!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] This is not enough for me, but it is much more than available in the last ten years, and I am really happy about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as development policy is concerned – that is to say, Mrs Lunacek, as you have not found it – there is no increase in budgets this year, but next year we are finally standing! – 0.33 percent of gross domestic product available. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: But the last federal government has...!]] I am pleased to quote here from a study by the Centre for Global Development, according to which Austria is in the ninth place of 25 industrialized countries in terms of development aid. This study not only uses direct state aid as an index, in which we finally pick up – that has already been overdue, Mrs Lunacek, we agree – but also other criteria. I find it interesting that Austria is also so good on the grounds of migration policy. It calculates: How many migrants from developing countries do a country take up per capita? – Such a reception is important insofar as these people who live in us from the poorest countries of the world also support their families in their home countries. And if they have the opportunity to return, they also do so in order to contribute a great deal to development in their own countries. In this respect, Austria is in excellent fourth place, behind Switzerland, New Zealand and Germany, but in the other areas in the statistics is almost everywhere behind us. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we too can be proud of this – and this also shows that the asylum policy of this Federal Government is clearly one that can be seen. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] And that must remain the same! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why, in the case of pensions, education, investment in infrastructure, the achievement of Kyoto objectives, the Federal Government has committed itself to the goal of sustainability in the context of a change in environmental policy, and in this way we will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16050	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16068	Mr President, I should like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! As an attentive listener of today's variety of debates, I am allowed to formulate a short replica. I mean, it is extremely worrying about the state and quality of parliamentarianism in this House that today during this debate more often than 46 times – I repeat: more often than 46 times! – a democratic fundamental right is called into question by representatives of the FPÖ and the ÖVP, a democratic fundamental right, namely the fundamental right to express criticism, the democratic fundamental right to strike, and the democratic fundamental right to demonstrate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: In what debate was that?]] Unestimated colleagues with a limited relationship to a very limited form and interpretation of democracy! You should just as well know that the quality of a democracy cannot be measured by what you order, suppress, prevent or prohibit, but the quality of democracy is measured by what enables, promotes, supports and allows. [[Abg. Big Truck: Don't be so angry, be a little more funny!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it is important to point out to you from ÖVP and FPÖ that one day it might be possible for other people to meet other groups in our Republic of Austria, for example, those belonging to the ÖVP or the FPÖ – and of course these people also have the right to practice, demonstrate and strike criticism. [[Abg. Scheibner: We will remind you! We know what methods you are working with!]] This fundamental right is for everyone: all people in the Republic of Austria, all Austrians and all people from other countries who have found a home with us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I will now focus on the federal budget and contributions from countries and local authorities in my remarks. The “largest tax reform in the history of the Second Republic” has been announced by the – now absent – Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser a month ago through TV and also yesterday at his budget speech. However, he has kept to himself pretty little by no means how this, under quotation marks, should go over the stage “the largest tax reform of the Second Republic”. The Minister of Finance has kept this short, but thank God for finding facts and reality in the small prints of the law paragraphs. How does the Minister of Finance intend to shape this? – In doing so, he takes back – one would say: Trick, but that is, as I think, a too loving name – let's say it this way: a very worrying method. In 2001, there was the so-called zero deficit; with laurel, Mr Finanzminis-ter has adorned himself. Undisputed – and this has not been disputed by the Minister of Finance for the last time – is the fact that this zero-Neuve debt from 2001 only carried the countries and municipalities – and not the Federation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The same method should now be applied again. And how? – In even more insolent form than at the time that the bill of the Ministry of Finance, according to the federal government, collects all new revenue, 100%, all new and increased taxes! [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] In this context, I mention only the increase in mineral oil tax and, as a carinthia and yet also for the Vienna-based ones, the new old-age contributions for the combustion of waste. [[Abg. Scheibner: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You cannot speak for the Vienna! Do you know how many charges have been raised lately?- Oh, my God!]] I can present to you, Mr Finz, the letter from all the mayors of Carinthia, in particular ÖVP and FPÖ, in the hope that you will give it to the Minister of Finance. [[The speaker handed over a document to the State Secretary, Dr. Finz, who is sitting on the Government Bank.]] All these more incomes and “naturally ” the self - retention of the covenant also collects. And what happens to the countries? – All reductions, such as the reduction of wage tax, concern Community taxes, on the basis of countries and municipalities. That is, there is a lack of revenue. This revenue takes away the countries and communities, and that is a big sum: Between 2004 and 2006 this will be around €200 million! For my opposition criticism, I am now leading a rather unwarranted witness here, and I would like to quote a quote from the Tyrolean head of the ÖVP, who, in his opinion, as was done in all the opinions of all countries, formulates the following - I quote - : This approach, countries and communities to participate in less revenue, but not in more revenue, is contrary to the spirit of financial compensation. By the way – I still quote van Staa! – there were no political negotiations either. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, what does that mean? – You don’t talk to the ÖVP national leaders, you don’t talk to the FPÖ financial advisers, for example in Carinthia, you don’t talk to the ÖGB and you don’t even have an ear, colleagues from the ÖVP and Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel, when the President of the Economic Chamber of Leitl makes a very humble request for a meeting and calls for a culture of conversation on a daily basis. [[Abg. Grandruck: Who says that?]] They're not talking to anyone! This is a refusal to talk, and therefore it is for every person in Austria to go on the road against and against these political methods of dictating rather than creative partnership. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] One last point was the absence of the Federal Chancellor and Mr Absence Minister: Karl-Heinz Grasser said in 2001 that he had no passion for buying this war equipment. [[Abg. Grossruck: This is a countryman!]] And on, O-Ton Grasser of 2001: I'll be against it, I'll vote against it, and I'll be a taxpayer's lawyer. - Quote. Mr Finanzminister, Mr Bundeskanzler and other team of this Federal Government! How, with what arguments has the weapons lobby managed to convince you that this worrying text with the “xx million €” – it’s not three x, but only two – is in the budget accompanying law? And: What methods have they brought you under such time pressure? Because politically it is not very wise to cut down pensions, introduce self-holds, and at the same time buy the XX-large war equipment!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16241	The next item on the list of speakers is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16260	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Appreciate colleagues of the High House! I would like to ask the honourable colleagues to feel addressed, just as we women often feel addressed, if we are only apostrophized with the male form. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Again...!]] – Already the same topic – but I continue where Mr Trunk has stopped. I also noticed how this Federal Government was constantly making use of its financial resources. I also quote from an unexpected source, namely from the website of the Austrian Town and Municipal Government. [[Abg. Großruck: On which website? Municipal or municipal government?]] The Federal Government has retained more than €2 billion in its own budget in 2001 but the current budget is already ready to share with the countries and communities, the losses in wage and income tax. In 2004 the municipalities will lose €32 million to countries €29 million. But the study fees can also be financed by the municipalities. The municipalities finance 13.1 percent of the rate of deduction from wage and income tax. The same applies to family policy: Families are funded through the childcare allowance and increased family allowances, but with the very old - looking recipe “Women, back to the stove! ” According to a recent Wifo study, this concept results in the longer withdrawal of women from their professions without increasing father participation in childcare. [[Abg. Großruck: Is this also on the homepage?]] This also means that fewer women re-enter into the Community's pots in transit through their employment. So that's a stupid concept! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Furthermore, it should not be allowed to exclude the family compensation fund. 35 million € is taken from the Federation! Did you know that he will charge €20 million in administrative costs for the administrative management of the family compensation fund? To illustrate: That's 280 million schilling! The national conference did not seem to have found this particularly funny and set in motion the consultation mechanism. As Mr Trunk already pointed out with a quote from Mr van Staa, the countries were not included in the discussions. Nevertheless, I'm not too sorry. A good early evening after a long day with budget discussions begins with a puzzle: Who places the Federal President, the First President of the National Council, the Federal Chancellor, the Austrian Commissioner for the EU, the President of the Supreme Court, the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Court of Auditors, six of the nine heads of state – a woman of which! – 64 out of 84 district leaders, 1 600 out of 2 360 mayors, the Director-General of the ORF, the majority in the ORF Board of Trustees, the President of the Chamber of Commerce, the President of the Chambers of Agriculture, the Director-General of the National Bank, almost all the Bank's operations and almost all major political functions in six of the nine federal states? [[Call the ÖVP: Good people!]] [[Abg. Eder: Lauter Schwarze!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! This immense power apparatus, which can access all the political resources of the Republic of Austria, does not bring together any other drafts than the one now present: [[Abg. Schöls: Why are you accusing the voters?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't yell at the end of the evening!]] Boredish, imaginative, old-backed from the requisite chamber of politics, restored, which had already been deep - and rightly - frozen for a long time. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I understand the colleagues from the Freedom Party that they are becoming grand, as they find no mention at all. You have to remember Parliamentary work. [[Abg. May. Posch: They don't do anything!]] It seems, however, that good ideas are less due to saturation than to hunger. And this seems to have been meant by the Minister of Finance when he spoke of the adjacent bacon that is hindering the government from the movement. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] One more mystery to the conclusion: Why do so many people in the world beat out the outstretched hands of the Federal Chancellor? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:... Why are you tormenting us in the evening?]] - I can only suspect. I myself have experienced that outstretched hands of ÖVP-carriers usually mean that they have long since dimmed with good ideas. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where are the good ideas?]] If they could no longer prevent it, they would have torn the ideas themselves. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16443	The next speaker is Mr Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16461	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rest-Hinterseer, I really do not understand your excitement and envy. In a democracy, political functions are given according to the results of the elections, or do you perhaps want to do otherwise? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Eder: These are loud political functions!? ...all blacks!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The double budget presented yesterday in Parliament for 2003 and 2004 is a very good basis for rural areas and agricultural structures. With the 3-billion-€ package we guarantee the rural family security of public funds. This security is particularly important now in order to be able to set new and forward-looking priorities in investment promotion. Finally, we are just ahead of EU enlargement, and our agricultural agriculture needs to be prepared to be able to compete in ever-increasing competition. However, our farmers can only accept this challenge if they are supported accordingly by society, that is, by all of us, because ultimately we all benefit from the fact that our agricultural products are of the highest quality. But it is not only the brand quality that distinguishes our agricultural production, it is also the good water and the good air. Our cultural landscape is protected and carefully maintained by the farmers. Our farmers know their responsibilities, so we too in this House must exercise our responsibility to ensure adequate income for the often laborious work of farmers. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: And farmers inside!]] In my opinion, it is cheap and polemic to criticise public spending on agriculture. We would make it too easy to condemn the compensatory payments in Bausch and Bogen. This is shortsighted and has nothing to do with reality in the rural world! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With the accession to the European Union, Austrian farmers had to face significant income losses, loss of income of up to a third. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: And farmers inside!]] Therefore, it is all the more important to ensure that every euro from Brussels, which is available to us, is also collected there – and our Minister of Agriculture, Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll, is a guarantee that this will happen too! The compensatory payments are also a certain charge for the lower product prices that we now receive – as farmers, I would much prefer a fairer and therefore higher product price, because it also corresponds to our rural thinking. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: And farmers inside!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Tell me, “I am a farmer”!]] Although the path over the compensation payments is only the second best, it is the only way to go. In an average Austrian farm, not even 20 hectares are managed, even though yesterday a farm with around 2,500 hectares was modelled and modelled by the Greens here in the High House. I would advise these colleagues once again to deal intensively with the structure of our agricultural agriculture. Or does her heart perhaps appeal to those large businesses that have remained in the former Communist countries? For me, there is already a question of whether you are aware of how to earn the livelihood from agricultural work. I believe that you have never served in agriculture, but at most in agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This attitude also explains why both opposition parties did not want to secure public funds for agriculture in the discussions on possible government participation, but rather called for much higher and more stringent conditions. Where this leads in rural areas, we see in red-green Germany. If not, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties! We will consistently support and continue the positive path of our federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16597	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16615	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is an important goal for Austria to reach third place in terms of economics and jobs in Europe. But it is even more important that we maintain the social climate and the quality of life that we have been able to create for Austria over the last 30 years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If yesterday, Minister of Finance, Grasser, once again cited an international ranking agency, which, as a result of which the economic location of Austria has greatly improved, this is just a hint. But there are also many other rankings in which it is seen vice versa. At Michael Porters ranking for the “World Economic Forum”, Austria is stagnating, for example, and in others such as the “European Innovation Scoreboard” Austria is even falling. But much more important than such assessments is reality. I have looked at the successes of the Austrian localisation company Austrian Business Agency. It should be noted that in the last three years – from 2000 to 2002 – the cases have halved, as have the investment and the number of jobs that have been created. And this is an essential indicator for me, in addition to the economic impact, that foreign countries have lost confidence in Austria's economic location, which, in turn, is an important point for the assessment. On a second point: The Minister of Finance, who is now no longer present, made a very detailed statement yesterday in his speech that the state is a bad businessman. If you look at what has happened in the last three years, which top managers have been removed from their functions in advance, managers who have been very successful now, but also in the private sector before, and are – for example, Draxler from ÖBB, but I could also call many others – this is of course a signal! [[Call the ÖVP:30 years!]] Such people are replaced, used worse or not so, and then the state is represented as a bad owner! This is purely ideologically oriented policy! The situation is exploited in such a way that the state can be represented as a bad owner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We're holding on to this. This is not professional corporate governance, this is an ideologically oriented breakdown of companies! For us Social Democrats, the issue of ownership is not an ideological question, for us it is always a question of expediency. [[Abg. Grandruck: Since when?]] At least since 1986! And you should keep that, I think. With the amendment of the ÖIAG law, you want to achieve a wide range of different goals again, but the whole thing overpowers. One goal has been particularly noticeable to me – and I can't understand it at all despite ten years of experience in industry! – the project to increase the value of the company through a company sale. Any reasonable person would increase the company's value in advance and only then sell it so that higher revenues can be achieved for the company and for the state of Austria. [[Abg. Amon: But that's not always true!]] But what does Federal Minister Grasser do? – Over the next two years, he will get 300 million euros from the ÖIAG in dividends. This is in itself nothing bad, but in this case it means a change in the debt structure: The ÖIAG must take in these €300 million so that it can take off the dividend! In reality, this is a hidden credit from the federal government and is actually only used for the cosmetics of the budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance is no longer present. [[Abg. May. Posch: Thank God!]] If you announce a listed company for sale, the dramatic impact on price development. In the area of US companies, this can lead to criminal proceedings if at the same time there is an influence by the owner or the lack of information from the other shareholders! In Austria, the course ends with the opening of the doors and gates of speculators. It is said that the Minister – and I wanted to ask him personally here – arranged to sell quickly, bring it what it wants. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: That's not true!]] – If so, then according to a simple calculation, this would mean that we will put at least €2 billion practically in the sand! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have heard many advertising slogans from yesterday's budget speech, they have already been sufficiently commented on. I will try to make a different exit, I would like to quote Albert Einstein, who said – I quote – that: [[Abg. May. Posch: What does he have to do with the government?]] “No goal is so high that it justifys unworthy methods.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16755	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16784	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The paint is gone!, Mr Gartlehner recently here... – That’s right! [[Abg. May. Posch: That's right!]] The paint is gone, from the socialist budget policy of the last century, because we are much better there today than in 1999, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] You should recognize that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There have never been as many employees as this one. May – they really have reason to celebrate, ladies and gentlemen. For the first time in the Second Republic, we have a positive trade balance - we can rightly be proud of it. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] 28 000 new entrepreneurs we were able to report last year – there have never been so many start-ups in this country! The fact is: The paint's gone! Another policy has begun in this country. Ladies and gentlemen! We should together be proud of this successful economic policy, of this successful government policy of the Cabinet I, to which we owe our present position. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My previous speaker has led witnesses to the situation of the Austrian economy – he has just mentioned the wrong ones. Call the Monetary Fund, call the OECD, call the European Commission: All of you present an excellent witness to Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This draft budget is indeed the guarantee of a further good development of the Austrian economic location. I know the economy is not everything, but without a successful economy much is not possible in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore welcome the approaches that concern the economy, such as the funds for active labour market policy, and we will endeavour to transform labour market services into a powerful service company. I welcome the tax reform, which mainly benefits small and medium-sized enterprises, because these small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to benefit directly from consumption. This tax reform, which starts this year and will also be effective next year, is the first step towards a reduction in the tax rate that we will continue this government to reach 40 percent by 2010. Mr Mitterlehner said that the measures relating to the profits not collected were an essential signal to the economy. We have fought for 20, 30 years against discrimination against equity in businesses. This government implements the anti-discrimination of the unclaimed profit. This may not be a huge impact, but it is a signal to the economy. I could continue the list of these services for the economy. It is the continuation of a successful success model. You should acknowledge this, and you should also support it, ladies and gentlemen, it is for the benefit of all of us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But what does the opposition do? – She prays the benefits sick, she prays the country sick, because what cannot be, must not be because it does not come to your attention. I say to you: If there are several speakers from SPÖ here who publicly discredit the second and third pillars, it will not strengthen these instruments, I can give you the right to do so. But it's irresponsible if you do this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] These statements here will not weaken the economic location of Austria, I admit. Because they're not that important. But dramatic effects can actually have the ÖGB strike calls for the Austrian economy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are living today in a part-time economy, and we know of companies that are already rethinking their location policy. If a site that supplies Europe is paralysed for several days, then the reliability of Austria's economic location is seriously questioned. These actions – Mr President Vergestnich, you know – go to the wrong address. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] As a strong supporter of the social partners, I ask you: Don't take the social partners hostages, he can't do it! [[Abg. Gaal: Say this to the Lord.]] I would have liked to say to Mr Gusenbauer: Olah – and not Benya – has said that there will be only losers, with strikes you can not raise a pension. But all this isn't the highlight yet. As an economic representative, I was really concerned: the happiness, yes, the cheerfulness, which has now been assumed by the SPÖ Group, when the damage suffered by the companies is reported by this strike. You should be ashamed of this cheerfulness, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Marizzi:... the people are concerned!]] That doesn't strengthen the economic location, that's not all right. It's been told you 46 times, and I'll tell you a 47. Times: This hustle and bustle is not all right! [[Abg. Eder:... Holiness of Grasser!]] Mrs Bures spoke about Austria's successful path. It shows that this successful path of Austria is not at your heart. He doesn't mean anything to you. Then: Future needs responsibility, and you are unable to bear this responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16926	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16945	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Some remarks on Mr Finanzminister's budget speech yesterday, because, I think, it is worth illuminating a bit of the ideological attitude behind it. Among other things, the Minister of Finance has quoted the Nobel Prize winner Hayek, with the statement that poverty cannot be eliminated by redistribution of existing prosperity. I believe that the opposition is a very strong piece of this quote, so to speak, ideologically. If you'd read Hayek or read Hayek – as a national economist you do – you would know that the focus of Hayek's system criticism is on planning communist systems, but not on the social market economy, as Mr Tancsits thankfully mentioned today. With regard to this social market economy, I should like to remind you that the same Hayek declared literally in the mid-fifties that this social market economy is an impressive revival of economic liberalism. [[Abg. Amon:... not understood!]] But if, in fact, poverty should not be eliminated by redistribution of existing prosperity – and I believe that is the attitude behind all of this – then I wonder why a few minutes later the same Minister of Finance in the same budget speech praises, without a doubt, the excellent achievements of the Austrians in the willingness to donate in the course of the flood disaster. This willingness to donate is a model example of redistribution of existing prosperity! But exactly in this is obviously the ideological difference between us: What we are concerned with is not the redistribution primarily through private donations, but redistribution in such a way that there is a legal claim on it. We don't want to turn social weak into bitters and alms. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] On the other hand, full approval of another statement made by the Minister of Finance, namely that deficits are useful in economic times: Yes, I do! I congratulate this recognition, because this is for the first time a public commitment by the Federal Government to an anticyclic budget policy! I'm just wondering: Where exactly was this anticyclic budget policy in the last three years? In recent years, we have had extremely weak economic developments, but the focus of budgetary policy has been on zero deficits, which is now replaced by another keyword, “the biggest tax reform of all time”. In the last three years, there has been nothing to be noticed about the counter-tax. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is where the circle closes to the EU also quoted, because this budgetary policy also gives the EU a great opportunity, for example, to strengthen the EU now in the course of the debate on the Lisbon process, where full employment is at the heart of sustainable growth and where social cohesion is at the heart of it. Of all this, we have not noticed anything in the last three budgets or in the two budgets. Because the red light is already shining, one last word on a comment that was also fallen yesterday, namely, “The bacon must be gone!” In the direction of the train, this statement has fallen, and in addition a sentence that should encourage a little thought: This alleged “The bacon must be gone!” has cost around 500 000 jobs in the European Union over the last ten years!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16996	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17025	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, I would like to make a personal promise that I have given to Mrs Moser of the Greens. Unfortunately, it is not present now, but it will be able to read it in the minutes. [[Abg. Oillinger: We'll tell her right away!]] She felt very affected by my last speech, in which, as I seem to have heard false figures from her, I blamed her mathematical misunderstanding. Of course, I didn't want to insult them personally and withdraw them with regret, so that this is also done publicly. [[General condolences.]] I promised her I'd do that. Ladies and gentlemen! The whole day is following us today, this is the pension discussion. My access to this is justified in the 1980s. In the mid-1980s, an Austrian entrepreneur – a chain manufacturer, Franz Kohmaier, he called it – published a book in which it is insurmountable, under the title “Adam Riese beats back”. He has already rolled up the pension problem more than 15 years ago and in his book he has researched and predicted exactly what we are discussing today. I was not in Parliament at the time, but I followed the discussion. I've been persecuting what it said: This is a spider that has certain utopias, that's scurrying what he says. We've been caught up with reality today. I also followed how the Social Ministers responded at the time. You said that are dreams, social dreams that the Lord has. No dallinger, no gibberish, no hesoon and no hums have taken up this problem, all have said: Our pension system is all right, everything palleti, and the payment procedure that we have solves everything. [[Abg. Eder: Is it too!]] [[Abg. Gaal: Wrong!]] I have given them the right: if the parameters that belong to it – if we have enough contributors if we have correspondingly long periods of work – then that is true! However, the system comes to the fore when the parameters no longer fit, namely: more students, more young people in education, fewer contributors, more pensioners through longer life and more pensioners through an earlier retirement age. Then this bill can no longer go up, everyone knows. I think it is for the benefit of Mrs. Social Minister Hostasch that she was the first woman in the House to take up this problem and admit that something has to happen here – at 10, perhaps at 15 years too late! That is why we are holding today the debate that is necessary. If we do not do anything today, if we do not take action today, then this sheer will become more and more intense, it will continue to break apart, and then we will get German conditions: that the trade union is taking action against its own socialist chancellor, because it no longer carries out its necessary social measures that are necessary for Germany. They envy us in Austria for making these pension reforms in a relatively good time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! That is why I find it irresponsible if you take the Austrians hostage here with their advertising. You invite them to the spirit train ride, you say: “Come to me in the ghostway, in the first row, Mr. Gusenbauer and the union boss”, then go into the hole, and there everyone is afraid. This is a wrong access! We are here to solve problems and to say to the youth – and I appeal to do the same –: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Tooth is drawn, even today's youth guarantees that it will later receive a pension. This is the access we have. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A pensioner today doesn't need to be afraid at all! That is why I do not understand at all the letters of complaint of pensioners' associations that are received in a number of ways. They complain about the pension reform. Their pension is guaranteed, I would like to say that too! But what it's all about is that the pensions of today's youth are secured until 30, 35, 40. That is why, and this is responsible policy, but not politics like Gusenbauer: Longer study, shorter work, early retirement, longer pension: that means higher pension. This bill does not go up, ladies and gentlemen. That is why this government is very responsible. It would be easier here to distribute alms, send out pensioners' letters and calm the youth, but this is the wrong access. We're giving in pure wine! Mr Gusenbauer is said to be a specialist in pure wine: He knows that pure wine may not always taste as good as a cuvée, like a cut in which you don't know what's inside, but with a pure wine, it's probably guaranteed that I don't have headaches the next day. With another person I don't know what's inside, I get headaches, and we don't want to. We want the Austrians to have a clear head and not finally to know where it is going because of evaporation with any other things. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll end up with a four-liner: Anxiety from early to late plagued the chancellor and Mr. Fred, one is about the pension, the other about the Côtes du Rhône.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17116	Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17135	Col. Großruck, you don't give the young people pure wine, but you want to let the young people do with water and bread at the pension! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: My God!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Nice talk, beautiful talk – it was a “beautiful” speech yesterday. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: And you do sick!]] When you've been listening to it, you've had the impression that it's all beautiful, everything gets more and more beautiful: more money for training, more money for pensions, more money for infrastructure, more money for the environment, more money for everything! He also has a good list of all the department heads and thank you, he has given a very nice speech. But in reality he has spoken the situation well, in the second sense of beautiful speech. These number games that are listed here... [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: You have to explain this to us!]] Chancellor's bowl has justifiably said: When I compare the deficits, I cannot compare absolute numbers. This year, of course, more than 50 billion schillings cannot be compared to the seventies or eighties, but this can only be compared in percent of the gross domestic product. He is right to say that it would certainly be wrong for us to compare the absolute figures. But in the next breath he says: one can only compare the federal grant for pensions in absolute numbers – which is of course also a weakness. I can do the same...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17221	A little courteous, I hope, yeah?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17236	The word “fatigue” – strange or unfair and just as unfair, as he rightly complains of the debt. Of course, I can only compare the Federal grant of 2003 or 2004 with the years before it as a percentage of GDP. If we make this comparison, this federal grant will fall, and all the other number players with the absolute numbers will go into emptiness because they are wrong! [[Call the ÖVP: Don't vote either!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] ‘Sand in the eye’ means: Klubobmann Molterer said that we would ‘ scatter sand into the eyes. ’ – What we do is not to scatter sand into the eyes, but to clear the fog of your propaganda machine a little. You may be concerned because all the figures in the newspapers, all the examples we calculate, are calculated solely on the basis of the figures previously in the assessment draft and which are now in the government template. This is the basis of all these calculations. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Who wrote you this speech?]] These calculations are correct, and you have not yet been able to correct any of these calculations because they are all correct. It's true there's horror numbers in there. But the horror figures are not in it, because we can't calculate, but the horror figures are in it, because this government template is simply a horror, and horror numbers result when you calculate it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you say, especially for the 30-, 35-year-olds – at the age I find myself – this is a safe pension. If you cut them by 25, 30 and partly over 40 percent, I don't know what this has to do with a safe pension. This has something to do with that I will certainly have too little money at the pension to live on it. [[Abg. Amon: And if we wait longer, lose even more!]] They always come with the three-pillar model. Let's look at the three-pillar model! Let’s start with the first pillar that you always label and label as a ‘state pillar’. I now compare this with the ASVG, which affects 80 percent of the Austrians. What's the other thing than a three-pillar model?- Oh, my God! As each employee pays a contribution, it pays his company a contribution, and there is a grant from the State. This is a three-pillar model! [[Abg. Amon: Who is the state?]] The taxpayers, you and I, of course! [[Abg. Amon: Oh, that's it, again?]] But excuse me, this is a three-pillar model: the employee makes a contribution of 40 percent, the employer one of 40 percent, and the state a very small share of 20 percent. How you can turn this into a state pillar is a mystery to me. The second pillar, the so-called occupational care, is the handling. I was always of the opinion that treatment belongs to the employee – now it is suddenly an occupational pension. That's an absolute expropriation! One has nothing to do with the other. [[Abg. Head: Who pays them?]] This is the finishing, and it belongs to the employee. The third pillar is the only column where at least the name is true, which you give to the whole. [[Abg. Head: Who pays them?]] That really pays everyone themselves. If you ask for concepts, I can say: There are better concepts! – Our concept has very important advantages over your concept in four points. First: It already includes the harmonisation you want to move to sometime from 1. January 2004. Secondly, The upgrading factors are calculated honestly and ensure an honest appreciation, so that not what happens according to your model, namely the cold expropriation, as the pension expert Bernd Marin, whom you like to mention, has called. – That is not the case with us either. The third big advantage is that women's and men's child rearing times – for there are also men who raise their children – are much more honest and better rated than in your model. In your case, unlike us, it is such that the times for presenters are rated much higher than child training times. This is not the case with our model. In our model, the child training periods are assessed according to how the deposits were before, and not with the one and a half times of the compensation allowance rate. The fourth big difference is that our model is more socially just. In fact, you have not been able to explain something to us to this day, and why, in the case of someone who is going to retire in a year and is getting a very small pension, it is all the same that it can make a contribution by means of a 10-percent or 15-percent reduction in pension, so that this pension system can be financed, but someone who has retired a year ago and enjoys a very high pension cannot contribute. – Our concept also has a social component that makes your concept completely missing. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] That is why I would like you to return your own draft – perhaps come You still insist that there is a more reasonable possibility of a pension reform – so that we can make up to 30. On the basis of our proposal, a reasonable approach can also be developed together with the social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17368	The next speaker was Mrs Wolfmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17386	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! For the years 2003 and 2004, the budget for art is around €220 million, with the share of the Bundestheater accounting for approximately € 138 million. The operating budget is thus around € 82 million. A numerical reduction compared to the 2002 estimate of approximately €200 000 is due to the outflow of special payments, for example for the Musikverein and Konzerthaus. The outcome of the art budget negotiations is thus particularly satisfactory given the general situation which makes expenditure-side stabilisation efforts in the Federal Republic of Germany necessary for everyone. But the art budget remains the same, we have a stand like 2002, of course, for the Bundestheater, which is certainly not easy, because they have to continue to work at a usual high level compared to other world stage, which is certainly a challenge. There will have to be savings and synergies in the area of administration and administration and various further economic measures. However, if we look at the situation in Germany, for example in Berlin or Munich, where there are drastic cuts and consideration is given to whether some, even large, stages can be afforded at all, then it becomes clear that we can compare That is why, with our budget, because State Secretary Morak is reasonably and prudently depositioning according to the existing resources, but above all because he is discovering new financing possibilities in addition to the budget resources and thereby improving and expanding the framework conditions for the Austrian artists. In this context I refer only to the Künstler Social Security Fund, which is fed in addition to the federal funds from contributions from cable satellite operators. And in spite of all the unacknowleds, our reviews were correct: The KünstlerSozialversicherungsfondsgesetz maintains constitutional law, and it is a success. More than 1,000 requests have been made by artists so far, and more will follow. So you can see: A large number of Austrian artists have taken advantage of the opportunity. I also point out many initiatives in important areas: Among these are exchanges with the Eastern European candidate countries, there are initiatives for art and culture in the regions, promotion of children and youth literature, apart from increases in direct art promotion and the expansion of prices and scholarships. Now another by-word on a current topic, namely to the Vienna Festival Weeks. First of all, it is not understandable to me if it is claimed that a deletion of the federal funding of 2.7 percent would endanger the existence of the Vienna Festival Weeks! Targeted project funding is at least as useful in this area. Secondly, I am absolutely and vehemently on the side of the Secretary of State when it comes to the redistribution of funding between cities and countries. I am very glad that there is a clear statement of intent that in the future more and more funding will flow to the federal states. In the long term, there must be an exit from a funding policy that still says and writes about the 80 percent of total federal funding to Vienna. This is an incredible injustice! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] I would like to welcome two more announced priorities for the future, which I expect to be: In the future, some parts of the broadcasting fee will be allocated €7.5 million, which have so far been allocated to the general budget, to the Digitalisation Fund and the Film Fund. I stand behind Morak's cultural policy and emphasize: He's doing well. We have a good budget for art and culture! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17453	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17472	Ladies and gentlemen! The speeches by the speakers of the government groups often give the impression that there has to be a secret budget hidden somewhere that looks quite different from what you have presented to us, because in the debate you really give the impression that you are talking about a whole different budget than about what you have presented to us. Just a few words about the art budget. The status of 1999 is of course not achieved. [[Abg. May. Muttons: That's it!]] On the contrary: By 2004 there will be a reduction in speech and writing by minus 30 percent in the art budget. That's bad enough! [[Abg. Dr. Wolfmayr: 2.7 percent!]] But the reduction in the subsidies of the Vienna Festival Weeks is really the summit point in this development, and these cuts, which are really very dramatic in their order, have made you tastefully also as a surprise gift to the opening of the Vienna Festival Weeks. Ladies and gentlemen! This is really a step that is not only harmful to cultural politics, but that in reality is also absolutely harmful to economic policy and is obviously only party-politically motivated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a step in the party policy of the most blind and most evil way to imagine! What should targeted project funding mean? This can obviously mean, if you've been following your actions lately, nothing but: Only more is being promoted what fits you ideologically. – And this is really not the way to pursue art and cultural policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They say – the Minister of Finance said that yesterday – that Austria should remain the most family-friendly country in the future. - Yes! We agree on the goal, as I believe. However, we will discuss the way even more violently. There are always different approaches in this regard. The foundations for Austria being a family-friendly country have already been laid in recent decades. The question is: How do we continue this path? Apart from the fact that the pension reform you are presenting here is anything other than family friendly, the Minister of Finance presented yesterday to pension expert Christopher Prinz as a witness that this pension reform is correct and good. However, as life plays in this way, in a weekly newspaper, Mr. Prinz has written a comment under the title “Women Stay Over”. – He writes: "The main failure of the reform is the far-reaching elucidation of the situation of women. The planned compensation of the reform is not sufficient to compensate for the reductions in the already low income level." There we go! Your witnesses look closer to you as witnesses to take the wrong path in this pension reform, your own witnesses, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us take a brief look at the development of the family compensation fund: There is an ever larger hole, which is considerably larger than the Minister of Finance predicted in a request response a year and a half ago. And, interestingly, it has not only grown bigger, but it has also completely changed its development: At that time, it was predicted that it was getting smaller, but, in contrast, it grew a lot. What is missing, however, is the concept of how to feed the family compensation fund. It is quite open how family benefits such as family allowances, mother-child-pass, student-free and apprentice-free travel and school-booking are to be financed in the future. There are two ways: Either it will quickly develop a concept or – and this is our fear – at the end of the day only the child's money will remain and one of the above-mentioned benefits will be deleted and shortened.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17556	The next speaker will be Member Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17574	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The government has begun and has meant: The future needs responsibility. – This responsibility is shown both in the preparation and implementation of a socially just pension system and in the defence of the state. Let me say a few words on the defence of the country. – Under this budget, the Federal Chancellor and Minister Platter have foreseen an increase in the defense budget to €1.740 billion, an increase of €70 million. This is, of course, not the filling horn, but a clear increase that you should take note of and an interpretation of the It is a matter of proof that one is standing behind the federal army and that, if one says yes to the federal army, one is also standing on the procurements. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the Greens, either to the Either, or to the Federal Army or something else: Please confess and say, if you don't want the federal army, don't: We want a little federal army, but we don't want the necessary equipment! Tell people if you don't want this federal army to take it out of the Constitution. Say: We're not protecting our country! Be honest, step down and tell the people the truth: We don't want this, and that's why we reject the Federal Army. A little German army for snowshine at the Olympic Games, the call for the Federal Army at Flood or the applause for the Federal Army on the State Day, on 26 May. October, how brave and good it is, that's too little, ladies and gentlemen! That's not what we're going to do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This federal government and the ÖVP are behind the German army, behind professional equipment and also behind the relevant finances. Of course, it is also a safety and motivating element for basic defence workers and professional soldiers when the appropriate equipment is available, not only on the ground, but also for air safety in the form of appropriate aircraft and aircraft surveillance equipment. Ladies and gentlemen, that is necessary. Federal Minister Platter underlines the list of what the force is going to do and is to be supported in the first place. A second focus is on international action because we have entered into commitments and because we have proved ourselves in this area in the past and want to continue to prove ourselves. It is also about ensuring appropriate training in language, sport and modules for the basic defence workers, so that they can be convinced of their service for Austria, for the defence of the country and for the spiritual defence of the country, and that we can finally stop discussing whether we need to monitor our airspace at all or not. We are the only state to have a discussion in this respect at all. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that there is a budget that is marked by the effort to meet all the security needs of our fellow citizens. This effort must be highlighted. It is about the safety of pensions, but it is also about the security of citizens in our state.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17628	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17647	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I believe that the government ideology is made clear once again by this budget and by its presentation in particular. The government is concerned with redundancies for the economy and the burden on workers. This can be summarized in a sentence: I mean, this is a pure redistribution budget, in which it is redistributed from bottom to top. My concept and the concept of social democrats in this House is – I say that figuratively – that those with broad shoulders contribute more to maintaining and developing the social state than those with narrow shoulders. – This is a completely different concept than that of the government, as we are currently discussing it. Ladies and gentlemen! Social justice can only take place politically, and I am deeply convinced of it and not through more market. With regard to more market and corresponding support, the Minister of Finance spoke clearly yesterday in his speech. Mr Murauer, my previous speaker, has just said that what we are discussing is a socially just pension system. – I ask you: Where do you propose social justice? I don't find them with God! Ladies and gentlemen! The market was never socially fair, and it will never be. The market knows no social justice! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Social justice must be renewed daily, not least by trade unions and works councils and, if necessary, by strike, when social justice is at risk, and we are currently experiencing such a time, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, we are now also experiencing financial reliefs for small businesses and for business founders. I do not wish to be critical of this at all, but I would just like to say: For example, there is a reduction in the minimum basis for health insurance for small entrepreneurs. The savings are up to 527 € per year with the same benefits. There is also a breakdown of health insurance contributions for young entrepreneurs with a savings of up to €3500 a year and an increase in accident pensions for almost equal contributions by up to 60 percent for commercial operators. – These are social policy improvements for the group of business founders and small entrepreneurs. I'm asking: Who pays that? - That's what the workers pay! There is inequality here and social justice is annoyed, ladies and gentlemen. On the other hand, there is an accident pension reduction for workers and higher social security contributions for employees, and the government is looking at how businesses in the market economy, i.e. private companies, remain guilty of more and more social security contributions. Ladies and gentlemen! Employers' debt to the local health phone is already €845.5 million. That's incredible 11.6 billion schilling! In these 11.6 billion schillings, however, there are also 5.2 billion schillings on employees' contributions, which have been deducted from workers and not properly transferred to the cash registers. – What does it call if you are to pass on money faithfully and not do it, ladies and gentlemen? I'm saving the answer! Everyone knows how to call such an approach! [[Abg. Silhavy: This is a real scandal!]] The trend of such debt is rising upward. However, this has not been a matter for the Government, Mr State Secretary, so far. She wasn't worth a word! Unfortunately, for this government, criticism of the health insurance companies is in the foreground, but not the help for the health insurance companies. You look at how things develop, and you do nothing. They refuse help, including legal assistance, if necessary to reduce this debt, and then sue the health insurance companies inability. This has now been presented to us by Mr Walch of the Freedom Party. And when you're done with it, you say, Now we need to change the structures. Ladies and gentlemen! If all in our country were to pay taxes as on time as employees in Austria would, then the budgets would show surpluses, and we would do much easier in many things! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17704	The next speaker was Mrs Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17723	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This double budget 2003 and 2004 is a future budget that implements the sustainable security of our social systems through reforms while reducing tax burdens. Long-term tax relief strengthens our domestic economy and creates the basis for social cohesion in the long term, as only those who generate can be social in the long term. This social cohesion was in the past a virtue that we were very proud of in Austria. Living social partners, even though there have been contrasts on issues, had top priority in Austria. It is all the more surprising now that the SPÖ, which has received its democratic task from its electorate, is only doing this task more on the street. The SPÖ advocates strikes against the economy, actually against and organises the people in our country. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You have no idea!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now we are starting the parliamentary debate. Bring yourself in! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] I have not heard a single proposal for the implementation of your objectives in all your speeches today, not a single proposal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I mean, it's actually very bad that a state-bearing party like the SPÖ, who has ruled this country for 30 years, now wants to cover the sins of the past with strikes! It is a pity for the people of our country that a party like the SPÖ gives up its responsibility completely and finally! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Dear colleagues at the Hohen Haus! Our ÖVP/FPÖ government is willing to assume responsibility for people, responsibility for the future. Sustainability, stability and justice are the cornerstones of the government programme and this budget. [[Abg. Dr. One: Can you describe this one once?]] A balanced budget, on the one hand, priorities on the other, are the opportunities for our common future!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17807	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17825	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is already strange what attitude one hears in the Austrian Parliament again! Furthermore, I would not like to comment on the comments made by my previous speaker. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think a lot of things happen to me, but I'd probably do a call for order if I said what I thought about it. But if, of course, the First President of the National Council of State Summons is here in the House, then nothing more can surprise you! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I note in these governments the last two periods of refusal of reality. You can't remember anything, you've never been anywhere. The warnings voiced by Social Democracy in 2001 were ignored. “Stabil at a high level” I heard “black painting” and so on. Mr State Secretary! You have failed with your Minister of Finance and your government to counter it in time! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] They have reaped the success of this misevaluation. You have brought Austria to the last place in the European Union with regard to economic growth, and you have reinforced the negative trends! [[Calls and appeals between representatives of SPÖ and the liberals.]] Now you have the bill: It's not going out front and back anymore! They're in the deficit. And here again, the speed that comes into your mind when it comes to the loads. The discharges, however, look different! Because I see colleagues stupidly, who is one of the “best rhetorics” of the House: Mr President, how will we be going? You're going to create it rhetorically in the future? You said: There's never been any debt with us again. With us there is no tax reform on pump. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your What are you doing with these 2003/2004 budgets? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: We still have to pay the interest for the old debts!]] How will you scratch this curve? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to address Mr Murauer very briefly and the German army. – You can still make such efforts, you will not succeed in bringing the merits of social democracy to the bad light of the Austrian federal army! I can only remember Walter Mondl, the last Sunday his 80. It's a birthday celebration. I should just like to remind you of what the Social Democratic Defence Ministers and Socialist Federal Chancellors have done for this army. [[Abg. Murauer: D’accord! Unfortunately this has changed, dear friend! The times are over!]] That's where you hang very, very far, my dear colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm just remembering funds that were available. How did you use these? For a lot of money, the M60 were retrofitted, then they were ruined. For a lot of money, the SOURER-SPz has been retrofitted – now they are eliminated. Artillery battalion you've modernised, then you've dissolved it. You've been driving 55-year-olds to the pension with 80 percent. You didn't let 60-year-olds apply for posts at all. And this day you will make yourselves and say what you will do for the elderly! You just need to see what you did last time, then no one will believe you anymore! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] One more thing, Mr Murauer: I am not in favour of the deficits of social democracy, because these deficits have created values, but your deficits will destroy values!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17926	The next item is the speech by Mr Schöls. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17945	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am one of those mandates who, on the basis of the results of the election, took part in the election of 24. Today, as a member of the National Council, he gives his first speech here. When my group put me in 78th place on the list of speakers, I honestly thought: Actually, it's laborious! On the other hand, however, I am grateful for this because I had the opportunity to experience 35 word messages from the opposition parties that cannot be what may not be, and that the location determines the position. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kummerer can still say so much here and Mr Gaál can still make such an effort and speak nicely, the fact is: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder]] When the Social Democracy under Chancellor Kreisky was responsible for the military state defense, Kreisky bagatellized and spoke of “chain vehicles” in connection with tanks, fearing to admit to his left that there are tanks. Today, however, you speak because it corresponds to your opposition strategy, with regard to catchers of fighter aircraft. [[Abg. Gaál: They are also: fighters!]] So the location determines the point of view! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am now the first national council member to be here, but I am no longer a new member of this business. – If, on the basis of various positions, young mandates come freshly into politics and here, as members of the opposition, see something they know nothing about, then you can still look for it as a real sin. But I am very sorry if old officials do not want to understand that today in European development we find different framework conditions than we did a few years ago, and we – politics is the art of the possible – also need to be guided by these conditions. It is not done by calling itself an opponent of globalisation, as this fashion word is today, and simply closing against all these things. We must note that we are facing changed framework conditions. I'm just reminding you: The worst cuts have been made under the Social Minister's houses, for the 33. ASVG-Novelle was the term “Räubernovelle” in use. The health certificate fee was introduced by Minister of Social Affairs Hostasch. Mr One, because you are looking at me like this: Perhaps you do not remember, but I remember what you, as a trade unionist of the public service, have been to you as the State Secretary for Public Service, as well as today, to the public service, as you have mocked us. I could show you the place in your office where we stood. To stand up as an opposition today and act as if one had nothing to do with it, that is certainly too little. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am a trade unionist, I am a trade union official, and for me the world does not collapse if we, as a trade unionist and as employee representatives, present our positions in various forms of protest. However, the sound makes the music, and that was, dear Fritz, what has always connected us since we were young, that we have tried to find the right sound. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] And when the district president of the ÖGB Höckner sends a letter, in which he sends colleagues Jacob I am glad that I am a union officer in Lower Austria, because we have a better climate in Lower Austria, thanks to God. [[Abg. Eder: Yes, at ÖAAB!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. And what kind of news come from the ÖVP?]] Fritz, I condemn this the same way, and I also said: I recognise the legitimate measures taken by trade unionists. I also remember what it was like in the 1997 pension reform – Otto Pendlsitzt here too – when we negotiated until the end and Ilse Mertel, who is no longer in the High House today, tried to negotiate the best possible for us. I am therefore not prepared to accept that today I am getting a letter from the colleague Bachner and you, asking me to declare today as a Member of Parliament, as I will vote in favour of the pension reform. My position is known: I am of the opinion, and I am firmly convinced that, as with any other government template, if we are working seriously on it, we will also take the measures necessary for this reform, in common responsibility. Dear Fritz, however, such a development will not be strengthened if letters are sent to mandates. Some would have to write: I don't know. I already know, however, because I am convinced that the social partners are working in my ÖVP and that we are going to get favourable rules. Because some of our coalition partners now act as if they had nothing to do with it at all, I would also like to remind you that there has once been a SPÖ-FPÖ coalition and that the Minister of Defence for Freshenschlager had to account for the biggest intervention in the field of professional soldiers with noticeable deterioration for the time soldiers. [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] There has been a different pension scheme for the time-consuming soldiers, but a socialist Federal Chancellor and a Minister of Defence for Freedom have implemented this intervention against the opposition and opposition of the relevant trade union section, and socialist mandates have finally agreed to this. Ladies and gentlemen! In accordance with the principle: Lord, give me the courage to accept what cannot be changed! Give me the strength to change what needs to be changed, and give me the wisdom that distinguishes one from another!, I am confident that we will find a good solution here too.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e18084	Mr Dr. President, on a point of order, I should like to make a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e18106	Mr President. High house! Mr State Secretary! Mr Schöls was so kind to appreciate a glance and to apostrophise it as well. He stated in his statement that I had at that time been defrauded by him or the trade union public service who had negotiated there as a service representative and State Secretary. - That's wrong! Mr Schöls, I have had a lot to say to the trade unionists of the public servants as a service representative, I have never mocked my negotiating partners!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e18149	The next speaker was Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e18168	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! In view of the many arguments that have already taken place in this already very advanced debate, it is not necessary to go back to content positions in detail. Instead, I would like to reflect a little on the previous course of the debate. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] As a new member of the National Council – and this is also my first speech today – I have followed with great attention this debate and the budget speech by Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance, yesterday. I was also very excited about what the parliamentary discussion process, which has been referred to again and again by the Federal Chancellor, by the Vice-Cancellor and yesterday by the Minister of Finance, will look like today. Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that I am deeply disappointed, because I realize that the speech of the parliamentary discussion process at Black-Blue is obviously just a bluff and a wortphrase. And there are a lot of wortphrases. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There is no discussion process here, because I think there is first of all the ability to listen and second of all the willingness to move in terms of content, all the more so than there are much better proposals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] For the speakers of the government parties, however, there is no movement, no insight and no renunciation of their positions. Instead, today, as in yesterday's budget speech by Minister of Finance Grasser, PR phrases have been repeated and widened. Phrase one: There is no alternative to the government's pension reduction programme or a willingness to engage in dialogue. – As if there were not alternatives. They should only be ready to listen to ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the FPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Please!]] Phrase two: The so-called pressure of the road would not be abandoned. The ÖGB manipulates people, and the social peace is threatened by the warning strikes. – As if the Federal Chancellor were not responsible for the uncertainty in the population. As if it were not for citizens to deal with people who use their rights and express their fears and concerns. As if not with the scrapping actions that are contained in the budget accompanying laws, the social peace would be threatened. As if it were not clear where the way of the government team is going: Away from solidarity, towards a society in which the stronger one is to gain. Whether this contributes to social peace, I would like to doubt. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that the strength of a society can best be measured, above all, in dealing with the weak in this society. Phrase three: the often strained trust. As if confidence had not been deeply shaken in the last few weeks, but not by us, and only by the pension reduction reform, in order to strike through the reconstruction of the state as quickly as possible. “Speed kills” also in the cabinet bowl II. However, it is questionable whether this method really creates trust. All these phrases are added – and this is even worse – that the ladies and gentlemen of the government parties in their statements also always represent gross inaccuracies and errors, especially with regard to pension reform. Only one of these I would like to quote here, for example, is the worst error of all: They secure the pensions of the future generation. As if my generation and the generation after me, my children, would not be existentally threatened by this pension reduction reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is still much to be said about the present parliamentary culture and the understanding of discussion and dialogue, and much has already been said. At the end, however, I only say one thing: So, instead of discussing and consulting, today there was only emphasis, driving and beautiful speeches. Too bad for a tedious chance more!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e18240	The next speaker was Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e18259	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have followed the whole of today's debate very closely, and I can actually seamlessly join my colleague Astrid Stadler, who has rightly said that in most of the opposition's speeches, in particular by the Social Democrats, no counter-proposal has been made for our concepts. All you do is practice criticism and reject everything that we propose in Bausch and Arch. There's no counter-proposal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry, stop it!]] [[Abg. Oils: Make a suggestion!]] What really bothers me in the debate and also in the general situation is that you feel it is so outrageous that a reform such as this pension reform is being dealt with here at parliamentary level, is being treated in a parliamentary way that there is a review procedure before it, as is the case with many other legislative bodies. It is Legion, in how many legislative projects previous governments did not carry out such review procedures at all. They remember, above all, this happened under the leadership of social democrats. I am quite simply of the opinion that the debate on such an important matter must, of course, take place here in the house. It is legitimate and not at all a question that the social partners also deal with such a subject. It is legitimate for the social partners to express the desire to postpone such a measure. However, it is equally legitimate for the Federal Government and the majority of Parliament to take the view that it should be decided and decided at the appropriate time. In a democracy one has to accept that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr President of the Council! I would like to ask you personally the question of what is meant by this letter, which I too, like all the members of the House, I suppose, have received. They put in it almost a time limit and say you want from every representative of the House until the evening of the 12. May 2003 knows how he will act in the vote. The reasons for this are as follows: We want to make your opinion available to the public along with the replies of the other Members of Parliament. Now I have to tell you honestly: So far, I have felt that, after a vote here in the House, the Parliamentary Directorate is responsible for making the vote on the Stenographical Protocol accessible to people rather than the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is an ultimatum!]] Above all, Mr President Vergestnitsch, you want to know this from the Members three weeks before the vote. And I must honestly say that if you do not leave the House's Member the opportunity to deal with matter again before they tell the trade union federation how they want to shape their voting behaviour, you will have to conduct any treatment of matter from the outset. I don't think that's all right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I really want to ask you – and that is what I am going to do – to stop putting pressure on individual mandates. It is legitimate that there are strikes in democratic states and that there are demonstrations. There can be different opinions. I do not understand, however, that individual Members are under economic pressure or that they are publicly defamated. [[Abg. Head: That's really not how it goes!]] I mean, we have to find another discourse, another debate culture, and in my opinion, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation has a strong contribution to make to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e18368	The next speaker was Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e18386	Mr President. High house! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been a steel worker since 1978 and during this time I have been working for one and a half decades. I am concerned today about a very, very large number of people who are concerned, because, with the Council of Ministers' decisions and yesterday's speech by Mr Finanzminister, the foundation for the vastest reduction in pensions in the history of Austria and thus for the most massive attack on our social system was laid. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Minister Grasser said yesterday in his speech on the strike actions that it was irresponsible to harm the workers of our country in a difficult situation. I can only answer that the damage to workers is caused by its budget policy and by the government's reduction in pensions. The culprit still has the culprit, and not the victim who is hurting and yelling! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The government says that they do not want to give in and they do not understand political strikes. Of course, political strikes are problematic, but the trade union did not organise political strikes on Tuesday, but were blessed by all trade union groups and therefore legitimate defences against attacks on standard of living and the income of workers in old age. Take note of this at last! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] A Federal Chancellor, a Finance Minister who pursues such goals, does not have the slightest idea of real working life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I will explain this to you on the basis of those people who do the most difficult work in our society, namely, the shift workers. It is my colleagues for whom I am here today. Labour physicians have found that shift work every year reduces life expectancy by an average of three to four months. As a result, shift workers have an average life expectancy of appallingly low 63 years, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! According to government pension plans, this means nothing more than that you want to let the people who have worked hard for their lives and under the most difficult conditions into death, because these people do not experience the age of retirement of 65 on average. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore invite you to work on a blast furnace of the VOEST Alpine, under the same conditions and with the same payment as a real worker on the blast furnace. Then you would find out what it means to really do shift work under the most difficult conditions. You would realize that you have no idea of the real working situation of the people in Austria, and you might rather descend from your high Ross. As a Christian socialist, as some in the Federal Government are spending, you would have to be ashamed of your draft and turn into remorse. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Federal Chancellor spoke yesterday in the House against the use of the word “pension harvesting”. – I ask you: How else do you want to describe the fact that a shift worker is paying in pension insurance for decades and then by your brutal addition of the retirement age to 65 years of age the pension can no longer be enjoyed because its health has been ruined prematurely by incredibly hard shift work? This is and remains a pension robbery for these people you commit here, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Wolfgang Schüssel is also invited by me and my colleagues in our company to accept the offer of a holiday internship at the blast furnace. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I am convinced, as my colleagues, that he will rethink this cold and brutal process after this "professional sniffer" on the blast furnace and instead will agree to a comprehensive and modern pension reform together with the social partners and the people concerned in the enterprises. [[Interlocutory calls at the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] The key to resolving the situation lies with bowls, with no one else!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e18485	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e18503	Mr President. Dear – lonely – Mr State Secretary! [[in the direction of the State Secretary, Dr. Finz, sitting on the Government Bank]] [[Abg. Wittauer: The Lord Mayor will hopefully not talk about the blast furnace, because he has never seen it before!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now you can yell out again. You have obviously forgotten the good use that no one calls in on a first speech. Now you can go back! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: I apologize!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have listened carefully to this very long debate today and have been careful to see who of the government parties is actually saying a syllable to the communities and to what the Minister of Finance has meant. – It was one of the only ones! [[Call the ÖVP: It was the Auer!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Jacob Auer!]] – Let me talk, I know anyway: Mr Auer has expressed a very critical opinion on the statements made by the Minister for Finance. However, I also did. May in the “Report” a second critical opinion heard from a party friend – no, excuse, not from a party friend of the Finance Minister, who no longer has party friends, he only has one more drawfather, I believe. [[Call at the SPÖ: He doesn't have any friends at all!]] Vorarlberg's head of state, Sausgruber, referred to the question of what he thought of Grasser, meant that he was very difficult to see the meaning and also the dynamics of tasks of countries and communities and to value them accordingly. – That’s true! I take another quote from the many fine speeches of the budget speech. In fact, the Minister of Finance has become very concrete among the municipalities. He meant: “With countries, cities and communities we go” – pluralis majestatis – “in the sense of the 2003 Internal Stability Pact, birth surpluses of 0.5 per cent and 2004 are expected to be 0.7 per cent.” My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is just under €3 billion, which will simply be removed from the communities and countries. Countries and communities, these are exactly the places where the citizens, voters and politicians live and where they feel politics! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Interlocutory note by State Secretary Dr. Finz.]] Mr State Secretary! Since you're talking behind me, I'd like to ask you: What is the “intro-Austrian Stability Pact 2003”? - No one knows him! Did you negotiate this somewhere in secret? I asked around: There is no stability pact 2003. [[Secretary of State Dr. Finz: He will be there until the end of 2004!]] - No! We have, please, already negotiated it in 2001. You probably have a new one now, so that the countries and communities are properly asked to cash out. [[Abg. Wittauer: He has never been fulfilled by the countries and communities! At the federal level, we fulfilled him!]] Who pays that? – I have another quote for you: President Mödlhammer referred to the question of who would pay it: The municipalities cannot play as payers; if they were forced to do so, the fees would have to be increased. Who's that to? – Again a grip on the pockets of the citizens! Ladies and gentlemen! This should be taken into account when making these decisions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I am already very excited how local politicians and local politicians of the government will then act in the vote. [[Abg. Oils: Always for man! Always for the citizen!]] Of course, in every political show that is being held today, the flood is on the way – even yesterday in a very mediocre show by the Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Wittauer: That wasn't a show, especially you as mayor of this region should know!]] It must have been a show. [[Abg. Wittauer: Just you should know!]] He said he would also like to thank the countries and communities for their good cooperation. Mr Finanzminister! I would also like to thank the mayor of a community that was very affected, for the fact that the federal government is no longer responsible for restoring the infrastructure of the communities. Citizens in these communities have a right to restore normality. When I got excited at the country, why no more money is coming, I got the lapidar answer: The covenant doesn't pay! – That’s how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! [[He-Rufe and congratulation at the SPÖ.]] Overall, and in conclusion, there is a very clear line in this government's budgetary policy: The loads are always on the weakest. In the pension sector and in the social field, it affects the socially weak, and in the administrative area, the last members are the municipalities. But if you hear so many speeches, you have the impression that with the communities you don't have much more on the hat anyway. You don't need so many levels and the communities probably don't even need them, especially if you starve them financially. – This is the first step towards saving a level, ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you once again: But there are the people who feel the politics, ladies and gentlemen. – Mr Commissioner, I have already told you that you should actually be in the town hall, and you are still calling in there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: That would be a good idea, the mayor who just talked...!]] [[New condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In these last few hours, it was very common to talk about how outstretched the hands of the Federal Chancellor, the government and the Minister of Finance were. They're all stretching their hands. If I look at how you're picking up, then I know why the citizens aren't going to look at you: They fear the stranglehold of these outstretched hands! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Olymps: Tachschreiter!]] I hold it there with a statement from the “Report ” I heard when I once had time to watch TV. Interestingly, Mrs Bleckmann said something about Mr Finanzminister. She was asked what was the most important thing for Grasser, and then she meant: For him – Grasser – Karl-Heinz is the most important. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e18751	Mr Marizzi is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e18769	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Keck pointed out very impressively how shift workers and heavy workers are doing. This afternoon, colleague Nürnberger showed in his speech examples from the pension insurance institution, what people actually lose through their actions: The difference is 300 to 400 € per month. [[Abg. Grillitsch: How do you expect this?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! If you say again and again that we have to implement this pension reform for the boys, you have not read the “NEWS” today. [[Abg. Head: You can't take the propaganda sheet as a means of proof!]] Today, the Causa is a fine pension reform: the pensioners – up to minus 44 percent! A young skilled worker loses 44 percent due to your reform. A hotel employee, Mr. Wirtschaftskammerer, loses 43 percent. You just need to check that out. [[Call to the ÖVP: But that's what the Marizzi has figured out!]] – It was not the Marizzi, but it was “NEWS”. [[Abg. Head: And should that be better?]] They probably did this very well, but that's exactly what you're embarrassed about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is particularly disturbing to me – and many Austrians – is the following: The President of the Federal Republic of Germany believes that this is the end of consensus policy, rather than dialogue. [[Abg. Head: Who's making the fight?]] The President of the Federal Government is trying to communicate in this causa and wants to establish peace. And what does the Federal President say? – I am in favour of a dialogue, but let us postpone the reform because we want to involve all democratic forces in this country. He's getting President Vergestnich, he's getting the President of the Chamber of Commerce, he's trying to make a consensus. But what does this coalition tell him? – The black and blue coalition lets Federal President Kletil flash off and says that he has nothing to do with it at all, it is not his task that he cannot interfere in terms of dates. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This ÖVP, which has long lived by a basic consensus, does not even accept the outstretched hand of the Federal President. – We find that objectionable too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now a few more sentences on the budget estimates. They increase the 2003 deficit by €3.9 billion, by €3.4 billion in 2004. You will increase the taxes by € 221 million next year. They cut the pensions. You punish the women with about €100 million, and you don't invest anything in education. Ladies and gentlemen! The next election day is payday!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e18871	The next speaker was Mr Dobnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e18889	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! In another Husch-Fusch action, such as the introduction of the ambulance fee or the accident pension tax, this unfair, unfair and unfair pension reduction reform has been decided by the Council of Ministers and is now expected to take place until 4. ==References====External links== One should resolve such a sensitive issue as the long-term insurance of pensions not shortly, but in negotiations, in order to satisfy all people in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They come back to the key word you have used in recent years: social security. [[Abg. Grillisch: And justice!]] Yes, you have met exactly the weaker, the workers, the families, pensioners and pensioners. It seems that this keyword will continue to be valid and effective in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I quote from the “Small Newspaper” the editorial of the 14th century. April, by Reinhold Dottolo: “The ÖVP lacks a weighty voice at the federal level, which is credible in expressing the Christian-social potential of the party – a counterweight to the ministers Bartenstein and Grasser, who can be socially rather firmly rooted and assigned to the movement of the steel helmet group.” There's nothing left to add to it! Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This is about preventing the biggest and most brutal pension reduction in history. It is about preventing the explosion of unemployment, and it is about preventing the destruction of the social state of Austria. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With its cross-border method, this Federal Government has almost insecured the entire population and put it in horror. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today I had a visit to Parliament by 50 pensioners from the upper Irish region. I have discussed with them, but also with people on the premises or on the open road is discussed. People don't understand the following: Federal Chancellor Schüssel has taken 100 days to establish a government, but on the sensitive issue, he now wants to cross over the people who have worked hard and hard at their workplace for decades. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It seems from the ÖVP and the FPÖ that for decades the well-built social network is becoming even more bleak, that even more people fall through the stitches and that there may be no middle class in Austria in the future. – The poor are getting poorer and more, and the rich are getting richer. A sentence to the so-called hackler rule: I reject this word with great determination. This is a discrimination against all employees, because all employees in Austria have to do their full job in order to satisfy their superiors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a title from the “Kronen Zeitung” of 29th century. March of this year [[Abg. Wattaul: Nothing is true!]] This government shall take its stand. – I claim that this government is not up to date, this government has taken the turn for the return. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Depart!]] In doing so, it mercilessly overcomes all social achievements and also the exemplary and functioning social partnership for decades.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e18996	Mr Gradwelt has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e19014	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Today's debate was a colorful ostrich of wishes and placards by the government parties, but there have also been some questions asked, for example by Mr Grillitsch. Mr Grillitsch has asked in his speech what way we want to take in the common agricultural policy. What is Austria to do? The agricultural sector, or the agricultural sector, or the small-scale farming sector? The SPÖ should finally be out. Dear colleague Grillitsch! You answered me yesterday for a call, I may listen, then I would know. Today I can also tell you: You don't just have to listen, you could also read it, because there is – and I will give it to you in my speech – a comprehensive programme and concept of social democracy from June 2001 entitled "Our Agriculture concerns us all", which shows that we do not want industrial agriculture but small-structured agriculture. Mr Grillitsch! Now I'm asking a counter question. [[Abg. Wattaul: Did they choose you?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] The farmer from the Freedom Party has changed his appearance. I am glad, Mr Wattaul, that you are also interested in agriculture! Mr Grillitsch, you have to answer me a counter question: Why is the Austrian Farmers' Federation fighting, why is the Austrian People's Party fighting a change in the common agricultural policy in terms of enlargement? Why do the Austrian People's Party and the Austrian Farmers' Federation fight a fairer distribution of agricultural resources, and why have you left the way of consensus in agricultural policy and internal-agricultural social compensation for three years, Mr Grillitsch? Why? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Against the fisherman!]] [[Abg. Grill: Incorrect! That's wrong!]] Because you are in favour of industrial agriculture! Because you still want 80 percent of the funds for 20 percent of farmers! [[Abg. May. Worm: Because you are big farmers!]] Because you continue to slave best for the little ones until they no longer exist! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because you would prefer to abolish the organic plants! Otherwise, former Federal Minister Molterer and now his successor in the budget would have provided increased funds to promote and support organic farming in Austria – one of the market opportunities for our Austrian agriculture, colleague Grillitsch! That you find this ridiculous is absolutely clear to me, because your mission as a farmer's president is not the small one, but the great one, and that is unfair! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear colleague Grillitsch! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! I would like to offer you a brochure for the next weeks of the budget consultation – not a brochure of SPÖ, but a study from the Federal Institute for Mining Questions from 2000, the research report 46: “The many faces of rural poverty”. [[Abg. Grill: Where did you hide this until now?]] A look at the key areas of this study would show you that the budgetary path you have taken is also the absolutely wrong one in the agricultural field. [[Abg. Grill: It will be the requirement profile...!]] Mr Grillitsch, I also remind you of what Commissioner Fischler said during the press hour: We still have God in Austria thanks to a very high acceptance and a very high social importance of the peasant population, which is not so in all European countries. [[Abg. Grillitsch:... the changes of our rural families!]] – But with your policy, with your missing alleged interest policy for the farmers, you are putting this social acceptance at risk, and that is dangerous. Get away from it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e19163	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. According to § 69 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall assign to the Committee on Budgets the plans of the Government 60 and 61 of the Supplements. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00015_d7e19197	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 127/A to 132/A have been tabled. Questions 386/J to 391/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 8.12 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
