ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2128	The meeting was opened. I ask the honourable Members to take their seats. I very much welcome the President of the Federal Republic of Germany in our midst! [[General condolences.]] I welcome all of you, ladies and gentlemen, especially the new ladies and gentlemen, who are now in office, to the National Council and its relatives. The official protocols of the 5th and 6ths. Meeting of 26. On 1 February 2003, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Stoisits and Dipl.-Ing. Klaus Hubert Auer. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2178	By the Federal Election Authority, the notices have been received that representatives Dr. Martin Bartenstein, Dr. Dieter Böhmdorfer, Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner, Dr. Alfred Finz, Elisabeth Gehrer, Mag. Herbert Haupt, Mag. Helmut Kukacka, Franz Morak, Maria Rauch-Kallat, Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselund Mag. Karl Schweitzer on her mandates. Instead of Mr Bartenstein, Member John Zweytick, instead of Mr Böhmdorfer, of Member Anton Wattaulund, instead of Deputies Ferrero-Waldner, was appointed to the National Council by Members Herta Mikeschin. The mandate of Dr Alfred Finz was given by Dr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzerwiesen. The term of office of Dr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, which was thus released, was given to Members Christine Marek. Members Gabriele Tamandl held the mandate of Member Christine Mareker. The free-standing mandate of Member Elisabeth Gehrer was given by Dr Reinhold Lopatka; the free-standing mandate of Deputies Mag. Herbert Head of Parliament Elmar Lichtenegger. In addition, the mandate of the honourable Member, Mr Mag, has been set free. Helmut Kukackadier Deputies Susanne Wegscheider, on the free mandate of Member Franz Morakdie Deputies Carina Felzmann and on the freed mandate of deputies Maria Rauch-Kallatder Deputies Mag. Walter Tancsit's profession. The mandate of the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Walter Tancsits was given by the honourable Member Mag. Peter Michael Ikrath. In addition, Mr. Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselder was replaced by Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Roderich Reglerund instead of Deputies Mag. Karl Schweitzer, Member of Parliament Detlev Neudeckin appointed the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the scribe, the new ambassadors will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the author, Mr Jakob Auer, to read the vow formula and call for its name.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2340	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” On call by the scribe The Members who are quoted below are making the fishing observation with the words ‘I praise’: Johannes Zweytick, Susanne Wegscheider, Carina Felzmann, Herta Mikesch, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Dipl.-Ing. May. Roderich Controller, Gabriele Tamandl, Mag. Peter Michael Ikrath, Elmar Lichtenegger, Detlev Neudeck and Anton Wattaul.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2434	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst and wish them a lot of joy and success in their responsible office. [[General condolences.]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2462	I should like to make the following statement to the House: The Federal Chancellor has received a letter concerning the Federal Government's withdrawal from office, which reads: Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. I am honoured to say that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 28. February 2003, GZ 300,000/3-BEV/03, the Federal Government responsible for managing the administration as well as the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, the State Secretary at the Federal Chancellor's Office, the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance and the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Social Security and Generations. Best regards Wolfgang Schüssel’ Serve knowledge. I use this opportunity to express a warm word of thanks and recognition to the members of the Federal Government and the State Secretary for their work in the service of the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There is also a letter from the Federal Chancellor concerning the appointment of the members of the Federal Government. This is: Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. I have the honour to inform myself that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 28. February 2003, GZ 300,000/2-BEV/03, in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, has appointed Federal Chancellor. In addition, in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitution Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has appointed on my proposal: May. Herbert Head of Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations Dr Benita Ferrero-Waldner, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Elisabeth Gehrer on the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture May. Karl-Heinz Grasser as Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Ernst Strasser on the Federal Minister for the Interior Dr Dieter Böhmdorfer as Federal Minister for Justice Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll as Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Environment and Water Günther Platter as Federal Minister for State Defence Hubert Gorbach as Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Dr. Martin Bartenstein on the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour and in conjunction with Article 78(1) B-VG Maria Rauch-Kallat to the Federal Minister without a portfolio. In addition, in accordance with Article 70(1), the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has, in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Constitutional Act appointed Franz Morak as the State Secretary and attached him to support in the management and parliamentary representation, May. Karl Schweitzer appointed as State Secretary and attached him to support in the management and parliamentary representation, Dr. Alfred Finz appointed State Secretary and assigned him to the Federal Minister of Finance for the support of the Executive Board and for the parliamentary representation, May. appointed the State Secretary Helmut Kukacka to support the management and parliamentary representation of the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, Ursula Haubner appointed State Secretary and assigned her to the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations for the support of the Management and Parliamentary Representation, Univ.-Prof. Dr. Reinhart Waneck appointed as State Secretary and gave him support in the management and parliamentary representation of Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallatbeit. Finally, in accordance with Article 70(1), the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, in conjunction with Article 77(4) of the Federal Constitutional Act, has entrusted me with the provisional management of the Federal Ministry of Public Performance and Sport until an amendment of the Federal Ministry of Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Best regards Wolfgang Schüssel’ I wish all the members of the Federal Government and the State Secretary the best success for their work in the service of the Republic of Austria. - All right, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2715	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2788	We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2810	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design of the debate on the Federal Government's declaration. Accordingly, a day block time of 10 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: Austrian People's Party and Social Democratic Party each 175 minutes, Freedom Party 120 minutes and Green 130 minutes. For the transfer of the meeting by the ORF from 9.05 a.m. to 5 p.m., the following speaking time agreement was made, which I will also monitor with members of the government: Federal Chancellor: 70 minutes each, one speech per group of 20 minutes, Vice-Cancellor: 20 minutes each, one speech per group of 15 minutes, a member of the government or a member of the government 10 minutes, one word per group of 10 minutes, a member of the government or a member of the government 10 minutes each, one word per group of 5 minutes, a member of the government or a member of the government 10 minutes each, one word per group of 5 minutes, a member of the government or a member of the government 10 minutes. This agreement shall apply to all further statements of words until the end of the debate. From 4 p.m., the President-in-Office will ensure that the remaining television speaking time is shared in such a way that all speakers – including the members of the government – speak evenly. It was also agreed to interrupt the meeting from 1 p.m. to 1/15 p.m. for a short break. There is agreement that during the period up to 5 p.m. per group no more than two words are made for the actual correction. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. Declaration by the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2864	We now come to the only item on the agenda: Declaration by the Federal Government. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2891	High house! Mr President. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The people in Austria want to know what is happening to them. They want a solid and secure foundation for the future – not only for tomorrow and the day after, but also for their children and grandchildren. Every responsible person, every mother, every father thinks in generations and wants a future that gives security to the children, the families, the whole community. ==References== In November 2002, the political landscape in Austria changed considerably. The political centre was strengthened and supported the path of future reforms. I have been commissioned by Mr Thomas Klestil, President of the Federal Republic of Germany, to hold talks with all the parties represented in Parliament. In the end, the broad consensus on the subject of reform was decisive for the new partnership with FPÖ, but also the willingness and the will to contribute necessary responsibility for not always very popular measures to ensure the future of our country. Not everyone wanted or could. High house! We live in a time of upheaval, change, change. Our most important task in politics is to shape these changes in such a way that the change becomes a reality for the people of our country that challenges make them opportunities for everyone, not dangers or fears. This can only be done if the policy is without delay expressing what insistences or barriers endanger the future, which therefore needs to be adjusted or changed. In a country, as Werner Weidenfeld writes, “in which each centimetre of the status quo is filled with defensive interests, a merely moderate policy cannot correct. ” . He meant Germany, but I think that's a Council that applies to everyone. We do well not to close these central questions of our future, but to really tackle the necessary reforms with full energy and firm will. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I present to you today my new Federal Government and its programme for the next four years. But also allow me to express my thanks to the retired members of the government: Mrs. Susanne Riess-Passer, Federal Minister Matthias Reichhold, Federal Minister Herbert Scheibner, who is now again in our midst as a clubman, Federal Minister Willi Molterer, also newly elected as Clubobmann, and Ms. State Secretary Mares Rossmann. I would like to thank you very much for the excellent work for Austria over the last three years. It was good to work with them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to present to you, as has already been said, the new Federal Government and its programme, and I would like to invite all the social partners, the countries and communities to play an active part in this future development for Austria. This government stands for a policy that does not predominate people, but rather for a policy that truly calls things by name. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To this sincerity belongs that one pronounces what is. We live in a restless time, also in Austria we are vulnerable: The situation in Iraq, the lavish situation in the Middle East, the crisis around North Korea, the threat posed by organised crime and international terrorists. Do not forget that 30,000 terrorists have been trained in Afghanistan alone! By the hour, only a few hundred were arrested. Whatever happens in the world – we are affected by it, also in Austria. At the moment, the Iraq crisis is at the heart of the world's public. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, has always stood for peace, for the disarmament of Iraq, for the priority of the United Nations, and nothing changes. We have always fought for Europe to speak with one voice and therefore, like Sweden, Finland or Ireland, have deliberately avoided putting ourselves on the side of any group in Europe. We are simply a part of the common position of the European Council of 17 May. February, which stresses the desire for peace, allows violence only as the last resort and only after legitimisation by the United Nations Security Council. The recommendation of the National Security Council in Austria, adopted by all four parties represented in this House, is also in line with this common European attitude. The solution to the problem, ladies and gentlemen, lies with the Iraqi regime, in full fulfilment of its international commitments. I very much hope that the signals of the last days will come true: the destruction of some Al Samud missiles, which so suddenly re-appeared, originally denied chemical and biological weapons of mass destruction. I very much hope that this time it is not half-hearted, tactical steps, but a real rethinking in Baghdad. A War Conflict Nearer East would have dramatic humanitarian effects on the affected population, but also direct economic consequences for Europe and Austria. The price of a barrel of oil has risen by 8 dollars since December and could continue to rise. To date, this alone has cost our economy around €250 million; Money that we could have used and invested with God better. I would therefore ask you: As Europe needs a voice, I also want Austria to express our desire for peace, for disarmament, for strengthening the United Nations with one voice. I hope that today, together, we will adopt a resolution on Iraq in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! Austria is open to competition: Our business location is based on an international economy that is very dependent on the outside. Our companies also benefit from these opportunities highly professionally. Not least borne by successful export growth, our economic growth in the previous year was around 1 percent. Switzerland, Germany, the Netherlands had no or no significant economic growth. Our jobs need to be reconquered and secured daily, because 50 percent of our prosperity is ultimately earned in export and tourism. That is why we will give even greater importance to the growth factors of education, research, technology, infrastructure and set important priorities here. This makes a successful economic location our best future insurance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We live in a time when the worlds, the worlds, are fundamentally changing: Thanks to medical progress, better nutrition, exercise and sports, and the higher standard of living, people stay healthier and get older. Since 1970 the average life expectancy in women has increased by eight years, in men even by ten years. With this, we have “winned” an entire generation – and this brings us completely new life prospects and life opportunities. At the same time, however, we also need to ensure, in time, that financial security in old age is guaranteed that access to medical care for all generations is really open. Ladies and gentlemen! Families are consciously dedicated to our political work. Our greatest pride, our greatest hope are the children. We must therefore do everything to make their world of life loving and promising. The children need protection and support. 90 percent of young people see the most beautiful goal of life in an intact family. – I think we have the task of encouraging them to this goal of life and creating even better conditions for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With the creation of an independent new Ministry of Health and Women, we want to set an important emphasis. Modern women's policy is a political cross-sectional task that must cover all areas of life. Women need opportunities, choices, freedom, their individual best way to go in education, work and family. Generational justice is the key issue of sustainable social policy. People with us know very well: A state can no longer spend more than it takes. It is already in the interest of future generations to begin the reconstruction of health and pension insurance. Only a powerful economy brings social security. This is simply the result of the mandatory programme for every Austrian Federal Government. Future needs: Responsibility. Whoever speaks or denies reform needs cannot bear credible responsibility for Austria. Our government work should therefore rest on three cornerstones: future-proof, sustainable and just. That should be the criteria for our political responses. Our perspective goes far beyond the next election day. Where do we want to stand in the future? And: What must we do now to achieve these objectives? Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a top-class economic location and thus also a hort of social security. Social is what creates work! – This is an indisputable truth. That is why we want to increase the employment rate, especially for women, to 70 percent by 2010 and at the same time – this is particularly important! – improve the compatibility of family and work. Austria is said to be a country of living solidarity between generations in 2010 – not a place where distribution struggles between young and old are fought, but a country in which all generations are treated fairly and in which the loads are distributed. Austria also intends to have a health system in 2010 whose highest-quality medical services are open to all: in the treatment of diseases, in prevention, regardless of age and income. We want to reduce cardiovascular diseases, cancers and strokes by 25 percent by doubling the precautions to 1.5 million per year. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is expected to be the most family-friendly and child-friendly country in the world in 2010, where there is recognition and support for the services provided in the care of young and old family members and where children are not waiting for debt, but for the best possible educational and life opportunities. We want to realize a real knowledge society until then. 20 percent of Austrians are expected to have studied academically at universities or colleges. By 2010 Austria will be able to fully benefit from the positive achievements of EU enlargement: more security, more prosperity and a clean, healthy environment. The current ten candidate countries alone will invest €120 billion in active environmental protection in the coming years, only to reach European standards. Especially Austria, with the successful industry of environmental technology and many companies that make this excellent, has enormous sales opportunities in these markets. And the population benefits directly from this, for example in air quality, because up to 90 percent of the air loads in our country come from abroad. Ladies and gentlemen! 2010 is expected to be a significant relief for all Austrians. The tax rate will be reduced by a solid budget and stability policy and by tax reduction in the majority!Two discharges already come in 2004 and 2005 – down to 40 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Future needs: active European policy. Freedom, peace, departure – this is what our new Europe now stands for. In this Europe, we want to be an active, equal member who will co-shape the future. In one year, the EU enlargement will finally overcome the division of Europe. If a political generation in Austria still has half of barbed wire fences on the edge of the free Europe, our place is already in a year where we have always heard: in the heart of a united Europe. Europe remains on the move: After the historic introduction of the single currency, the euro, a year ago, we are facing the next major changes. The Convention on the Future of Europe is coming into its decisive phase. The new European Constitution will be presented in June. I very much hope that this new Europe will be really close to citizens and transparent. Not only the institutions and the smooth functioning of our “Community Europe” require courageous impulses, but also the content of the tasks to be dealt with together must be constantly reviewed and redefined. We do not need a European central state, but efficient decision-making structures so that we are prepared for the many necessary tasks that each one of us is in the heart of. Europe, ladies and gentlemen, is an opportunity, means opportunities that we want to take advantage of in our own interests: Student exchange, regional partnerships, cultural cooperation, just as successfully started at the Graz pilot project: European Capital of Culture 2003. Ladies and gentlemen! But we can only master the future if we also understand the past. And this includes the conscious handling of our European history – and sometimes it is very painful chapters – the common overcoming of historical graves, such as the necessary reconciliation in the Austro-Czech relationship, or the further maintenance of model solutions, such as for South Tyrol. We must also accept our own history in all aspects. With its now completed three-year work, the Historical Commission has made an essential, substantial contribution to this, for which I would like to express my express thanks again on behalf of the Federal Government – and also, as I hope, on behalf of the National Council and the Federal Council. [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This report from the Historical Commission also confirms to us that, with the conclusion of the Washington Convention of January 2001 and the establishment of two compensation funds for the victims of National Socialism, we have taken the most important material steps – a total of around €1 billion. At the same time, the report clearly reminds us that the spiritual debate with this darkest chapter of our recent history must continue consistently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For many of the most important concerns of our citizens, however, there is no longer satisfactory national answers. For the purity of water and air, for the safety of nuclear power plants, for the exit from nuclear power, for the quality of our food, there will be no island solutions – for this, European regulations are necessary which give us security for all European citizens. Individual mobility and the diversity of goods are increasing – and thus transport. The regional burden on transit cannot simply be taken away – in Brussels, in the Council, in the European Parliament! There is a need for European solutions, a transitional arrangement for our ecopoint system, fair toll schemes and a large wave of infrastructure investment beyond borders. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Europe lives and is successful! And the best evidence of the success of the European Union is at the same time its main problem: increasing immigration pressure. As a hort of freedom and prosperity, Europe is quite simply attractive to migrants from many countries. However, the EU States, with them Austria, will set the level of immigration themselves without affecting the right to asylum pursuers. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially the border regions benefit from the enlargement of the European Union. Over the next ten years, some 30 000 new jobs will be created in the neighbouring regions of Austria. And we will insist in the Union that the current support programmes for the economic integration of border regions can continue from 2007 onwards. Crime is organized internationally today. Europe must protect its citizens with transnational crime control, and security networks must therefore also be made cross-border. An active European policy is therefore at the heart of this federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This awareness will also determine the preparations for the next Presidency of Austria in the European Union in the first half of 2006, which presents a special challenge with the final negotiations on the EU financial framework for the years 2007 to 2013. Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you, as has often been, very often, successful in the past, on the basis of these objectives, to pursue with me the path of a common foreign policy in Austria. We're ready to do that. In development cooperation, we are also looking for new, innovative ways to make the financial resources more transparent and targeted in future. A platform for development and east aid, in which the economy, the social partners and the local authorities can also participate, is intended to benefit more effectively from synergies at national and international level. Our responsibility for the countries of the Third World is, in particular, through the dissemination of know-how in the fields of education, science and the environment – keyword: gentle tourism – through new sustainable and inclusive projects. We should also strengthen cultural exchanges, especially with Central and Eastern Europe. To do this, new bridges are needed to allow art to be found as a mediator between nations. Future needs: Security. We want to give the Austrians the security in which they can live their lives as they wish. We therefore base a comprehensive understanding of security on our policy: Security as a basis for freedom and quality of life at all levels, in all areas. The citizens can rely on us here. We are the security partner of all Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria will join a European peace and defence community at European level. Austria will not be a safety driver, but will be fully conscious and active in a European security system, including – if necessary – a future assistance guarantee. Federal army like executives have to develop their role and perspective in the new Europe: Whatever we think of new approaches, we must do against the background that safety in the 21st century. ==References====External links== Each citizen ultimately has this experience in his/her own everyday life – in business life as in vacation, in education as in family life. Insecurity, terror, crime simply do not stop at national borders. Europe will only be able to be experienced by individuals if the security functions that the public authorities rightly expect will be experienced in a reliable European context. There is no security at zero rate – I am simply saying this banality here – and it has its reasonable price. We therefore need powerful forces if we are to continue to be taken seriously as a sovereign state in Europe and in the world. International crises in the immediate neighborhood like the Balkans, the necessary border use of the German army in 1991, all this has shown us that we cannot give up on our soldiers, but do not want to give up. Without their tireless use, disasters such as the avalanche accident in Galtür or floodwaters would simply not have been possible in the last summer. [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] Safety in everyday life is a prerequisite for your personal freedom, ladies and gentlemen. Security in state, society, in the personal environment of life is something like an elementary fundamental right. And for Austria to remain one of the safest countries in the world, it needs a well-equipped and above all well-motivated executive, which is respected. We must recognise security as all our concerns, for which not only the professionals, but ultimately we all bear responsibility in civil society. Our society cannot and must not accept that drugs and child abuse destroy young lives. That is why this Federal Government will make every effort to protect our children from these dangers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria will fully fulfil its humanitarian obligations and help those seeking protection from persecution. We will significantly speed up asylum procedures and thus ensure that people are helped to their right faster and more humanely. Austria is and remains an asylum country for all those who need it. We will, however, look very closely at who is right and who is seeking asylum, for example, for economic reasons. Immigration is quite different from asylum seeking. Immigration needs clear national rules for legal immigration. The solution of this growing problem in all Western countries requires solidarity and a common European approach. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Our concrete reform projects: Austria will actively contribute to the development of European security and defence policy, because it is in our own interest. In order to safeguard the airspace and safeguard Austrian sovereignty, we do not want to give up an air police force. That is why, based on the recommendations of the National Security Council and the decisions taken during the previous legislative period, we will continue the procurement process for airspace surveillance aircraft. We will ensure that counter-businesses have a positive impact on jobs, economic location and technology transfer. The Minister of Defence's budget must not be taxed in addition throughout the legislative period. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Faschingsscherz! That's a joke!]] The European Union must be equipped with the necessary skills to prevent conflicts and to deal with civil and military crises. Austria will therefore contribute to the Union's military planning objective. For these capabilities of the EU, we will not only provide properly trained and equipped units of the Federal Army, but also police and civil protection forces as well as judicial staff for civilian operations. Close partnership and cooperation between the EU and NATO and the Partnership for Peace are essential prerequisites for the success of European security and defence policy. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic:... sad!]] The Security and Defence Doctrine is to be implemented and thus enable the German army to carry out its core tasks, namely the protection of its home country, disaster aid and international peacekeeping. To do this, we need more military personnel and less administration, and we need the best possible equipment for our soldiers. We will ask external and international experts to draw up proposals for this. We want to make the presence service more attractive for every basic defence servant, because the German army is also a competence center for the dissemination of knowledge and skills, from technology to sports and languages, from health check to foreign experience, from logistics management to very special leadership qualifications. This offer can make the presence service an exciting and modern training time. In order to implement the reorganisation of this task, a reform commission for the Austrian Federal Army will be set up. It must deal with the following questions: What must a modern army be able to do today? How big should it be? What new requirements will be set in Europe in the future? Where are we supposed to slender? Where does more investment need to be made? Ladies and gentlemen! Civil service remains an equivalent replacement service for the military force. The contribution made by civil servants in particular in the social and rescue sectors is simply indispensable. We have three clear guidelines for security policy: committed to the rule of law, sensitive to human rights, but also consistently against crime. Police, Gendarmerie and customs guard are brought together for the first time to form a powerful, efficient and modern guard in a political hand. ==References== In fact, there are no longer any comprehensible reasons why there should be different executive authorities – from training to uniforms, from equipment to communication and use systems. Modern security simply needs modern solutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Future means: Austria is rethinking. The Federal Government stands for strong democracy and a solid rule of law. We are talking about more participation for citizens in protecting their rights. A lively democracy means that the Austrians can really identify themselves with the constitutional order. Unfortunately, our constitution has become very inconceivable. The oldest provisions are already over 150 years old. We will therefore establish an Austrian Convention, which will provide the basis for a modern and understandable federal constitution by the end of 2004. I would like to invite President Dr Franz Fierce, the President of the Court of Auditors – he has already promised me – to lead the Bureau of this Convention. As this was also stimulated by other political parties, a broad consensus will be found in this respect, I believe. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman and the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] And I would like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the National Council, the Federal Council, the countries, the municipalities, the social partners and many experts to participate, because every good idea is welcome. The principles of our constitutional right, subsidiarity, federalism, are, of course, beyond dispute. However, the reforms are intended to bring out obsolete constitutional provisions, to review the building of authorities, to establish new division of tasks between Europe, the Federal Government, countries, municipalities or districts. Expensive double-tracks are to be abolished. – And we want to achieve this goal in consensus with everyone. A good example of this is a federal animal welfare law, with which we want to form a coalition against animal suffering together and across the borders of the federal states. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria's rethinking is called: On the one hand, the Federation is willing to withdraw from certain powers such as opposition law against national laws, but on the other hand, the coordination and planning competence of the Federal Government should be strengthened. Finally, we want to introduce the right to vote in letter, update the catalogue of fundamental rights in accordance with European fundamental rights, reform institutions such as the People's Procuratorate. The indirect federal administration is to abolish, strengthen the country's tax authority, introduce a strict two-member body train in the administrative procedure, and finally convert the independent administrative Senates to national administrative courts. We want to simplify administrative procedures in the school sector. For example, the need for collegial bodies to be reviewed at national or district school councils is to be reviewed. Countries should also manage their budget for compulsory school teachers themselves. Future needs: Partner State. Ladies and gentlemen! "To serve the citizen – to provide modern service" – this is our principle for a modern state understanding. To do this, you need to critically question tasks, simplify processes, and use modern technologies: All of these are self-evident. However, it also takes courage to cut off old pots in order to enable future solutions. The citizen should receive the best service as a consideration for his taxes, regardless of who is facing him – the state, the federal government, the countries or the municipalities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Our concrete reform projects: In order for the state to be a reliable partner of the citizens, it needs a modern service right for all employees in the public service. Performance comparisons, citizens' orientation are promoted, an easy exchange – this is especially important! – between the private sector and the public sector is important. We want a modern and powerful public service. The new information technologies are to be important instruments for a civilised, modern relationship between state and citizen. So I'll start an eGovernment offensive: Tax declaration, inscription, trade registration, electronic signature – all of this can be done via a citizen portal via the Internet in the future. The application for authority without registration, without time of departure must become reality! The Social Security and Citizens' Card will be introduced during this legislative period. In addition, procurement, funding, file inspection, registers of documents are provided on an electronic basis. This saves the citizen a great deal, such as the provision of official documents such as birth certificate, registration note or citizenship proof for each individual authority path. Information on health care online, secure electronic commerce, conferences, negotiations on the Internet will be as possible with e-government for citizens as well as learning on the network. In short: Internet for everyone! – An interministerial platform under my chairmanship will coordinate the eGovernment strategy of this Federal Government. Future needs: secure jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians know very well that only a powerful economy can create and preserve work and prosperity. In recent years, the location of Austria has improved significantly, as evidenced by numerous international studies. We need to continue this course! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria has always been familiar with the European model of the social market economy. This means that in our economic policy, we are based on the principles of economic freedom, performance, the same conditions of competition, as well as on social responsibility and sustainability, especially on the eco-social market economy. We want to free companies from barriers and burdens. We want to create a climate in which performance is really worth the individual. Social responsibility to those who have problems with the pace, sometimes also with the conditions of the increasingly fast-moving economic and labour world. Undisputed is the principle: Economy creates work! – In order to counter the international negative trends, we rely on active employment policies. Our answer to the problems in the labour market is qualification. We do not want unemployment to be simply managed, we want workers to get a new job faster. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To this end, the Austrian social partners can and should make an indispensable contribution to the country and its people, not just as a pure representative of interests – no! – also for the whole of our social and economic development. I would like to invite you at this point to bring your expertise, your sense of responsibility, your power of reform together with the Federal Government into the concrete design of our future opportunities. I would like to encourage you to develop current ways of reform and to take part in the dialogue, and I would like to thank you for your support. Insure you of our willingness to cooperate constructively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In concrete terms, that means: A reform of the labour market service is intended to provide even better and faster information. Each unemployed person should receive, on average, a new job within 90 days. Over 50-year-olds and under 25-year-olds, we provide a legal right to continuing training through labour market promotion, if within eight weeks no mediation by the AMS succeeds. We also want to introduce a much better functioning early warning system. Announced employees should immediately report to the AMS in order to quickly receive the possibility of individual care. Rapid qualification measures can help to combat the threat of unemployment even more effectively during the termination period. The opening hours for the business are to be extended. The consumer thus has more shopping opportunities, trade increasing sales. We simply don't want to take note of a purchase power flow abroad! So far, the federal legal frameworks are supposed to fall. In the future, countries will determine the actual opening hours between Monday 5 a.m. and Saturday 6 p.m. after the involvement of the social partners. Sunday remains a family day! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have undertaken to make the existing working time law more modern. Both for the social partners and at the operational level, there will be the possibility in future to establish appropriate arrangements with employees on flexible working hours. The founders of today are the employers of tomorrow. In the coming years, we want to achieve at least 30 000 new entrants in the year and thus an increase of around 10 percent. This brings new jobs and increases the self-employed rate. For the better compatibility of work and family, there will be a right to part-time and flexible working time arrangements for parents from children until they enter school in the future. We have currently reported to the labour market service about 20 000 jobseekers who have deposited the desire for part-time employment as part of their premise. Almost 19 000 of these are women, exactly those target groups for which this measure is precisely tailored. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is in apprenticeship training among the leading countries worldwide. We want to keep this standard. 50 percent, half of all Austrian entrepreneurs, have completed a lesson; not all know that. This is a clear evidence that the dual training system is a very special incentive for the creation or acquisition of a company. The dual training system should remain a model for other countries. Abroad stays, additional skills offers during the training period are intended to improve competence in foreign languages and the handling of IT applications. As a medium-sized economy with a very high share of services – we have 13th place in the world at all – Austria is particularly interested in international agreements in this area, as they are discussed in the ongoing negotiations on GATS, i.e. the General Agreement on Trade in Services. The Internationalisation Plan will secure markets and open up new ones to our businesses. However, we take the concerns of the people very seriously and want to ensure in the negotiations that public services are not further liberalised, especially in the areas of health, education, water supply and culture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] A key area for strengthening international competitiveness is the efficiency of rail and road transport. Of course, the general transport plan adopted in 2002 will be implemented. That is to say, in the high-level road network, there are gaps and the rails are really forcing as environmentally friendly modes of transport. With these projects, we want to quickly establish transport links to the future markets, especially in the new EU member countries. The ÖBB reform will strengthen the company in a sustainable way for its international tasks, bring it closer to customers and thus also provide better services for consumers. To finance the expansion of important corridors, we want to introduce more mixed forms, mixed models with public and private investors. The privatization course of the Federal Government will continue. State shares in the large former state enterprises are sold as best as possible, with the aim of maintaining the headquarters with the executives and research institutions of course in Austria. Future needs: Sustainability. Ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture and environmental protection belong together, as we also put it in the area of competence. Through the family farms, the agricultural sector in Austria has always been naturally and environmentally sustainable. Anyone who makes a holiday in Austria can be convinced. [[Calls to the Greens.]] From agriculture to the environment, this arc of sustainability, which ensures the permanent protection of nature and the quality of the products. 80 percent of our land area is rural. In order to ensure regional value added and jobs, the development of infrastructure and the promotion of regional cooperation are necessary. Our farmers are the backbone of the rural area with their families – with the old, with the boys – and I would like to thank them for this work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Their production is the basis for regional value added. The safeguarding of the incomes of rural families is therefore an important concern for us. Of course, we will further strengthen and expand Austria's position as a European bioland number one. Specific reforms: Protection against the dangers posed by climate change must take root. We will therefore invest €90 million annually by 2006 in measures to reduce greenhouse gases. Measures in the field of housing development and a system of emissions trading will also be absolutely important to achieve the so-called Kyoto objective. With a further step towards the greening of the tax system, we want to continue the way to the eco-social market economy. This includes price signals for the consumption of non-renewable resources, incentives for environmentally-friendly and sustainable behaviour and the relief of the labour factor. We want to further expand the future-oriented area of alternative energy, which benefits the environment and the economy alike, especially the medium-sized sector. With a wealth of measures – increasing the share of green electricity, more solar energy and more biomass – we will be able to achieve these objectives. Ladies and gentlemen! The diesel boom in Austria is absolutely enjoyable. Today, more than 70 percent of new passenger car registrations are diesel vehicles. The entire passenger car stock already consists of 40 percent diesel vehicles. This has saved us and our environment about 1.5 million tonnes of greenhouse-related carbon dioxide over the last ten years. But we're going to take a long time to do that from 1. January 2004 is offered at all Austrian gas stations sulphur-free diesel. With one stroke, the cancer-enhancing particles can be reduced by a third. After a period of thought, thanks to God, the OMC board immediately joined this goal. I would like to express my express thanks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to say one thing in all its clarity: It is not to be seen why diesel should be sold in Austria for two years, which contains 35 times more sulphur than elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government will, of course, continue our common nuclear policy in Europe based on the resolutions of the National Council. We will also press for a reform of the EURATOM Treaty in the EU Convention. The Austrian position on nuclear issues was always successful if it was borne by all the parties in this House and if realistic goals were also pursued together. We therefore invite the opposition parties to co-operation on this important issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For farmers, the Federal Government and the Länder provide €3 billion for the financial period in order to continue to have a prosperous rural area in the future. This also includes, of course, strengthening the conditions of competition for farmers. As part of the tax reform, we will reduce the agricultural diesel price for farmers. Administrative simplification, more direct marketing, strengthening organic farming and improving food safety will strengthen the successful Austrian path of family-oriented agriculture, not an agricultural industry. One of our greatest natural resources, the water, must also be protected in a sustainable way. The use of this resource will continue to be reserved for each Member State in the EU. That means unanimity on this question. Austria will continue to remain a country with the highest quality of life through an active environmental policy. An intact environment and landscape is also the basis for our so successful tourism industry. Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian tourism has grown very harmoniously from below, in contrast to similar industries in other parts of the world, through the initiative of thousands of families. From farmers were gastronomy or hoteliers, from craftsmen cable car operators. Tourism needs opportunities and spaces, but also has borders; one has to be aware of them. For Austrian tourism, all the conditions are to be created so that the paradigm change in travel and leisure behaviour, which results from the integration of Europe and globalisation, can also be really successfully managed. There's a need for service here. And service means: optimal training, development of new tourist software, acquisition of new target groups, leisure products “Made in Austria”, art, culture, as well as health and wellness offers, event planning and applications for major events, regardless of whether they are congresses, the European Football Championship 2008 or the 2010 Winter Olympics. The composition of this federal government also takes into account the growing importance of sport in society – not only the top sport in which the Austrians repeatedly demonstrate that they are capable of too large, outstanding performances, but also the promotion of broadband, disability sports and training. In art and cultural policy, we want to continue the proven way to stimulate the creative and create good conditions for artists. We are committed to promoting the great creative and artistic potential in our country and its presence abroad. With the establishment of a financially generous “National Foundation Austria” we will ensure the preservation of historically important buildings and monuments, but also their economic use. After the successful establishment of the dual broadcasting system in Austria, we want to advance the objectives of media policy in the same way as European development. By means of a digitalization offensive, more programme diversity and quality will be achieved. This is to be achieved together with economic partners. Future needs: bright heads. Whether Austria will be really successful in the next ten years, a country with high prosperity and high quality of life, does not decide then, but today: in kindergartens, in schools, at colleges, at universities, in dual education. There the bright heads sit, whose inventive spirit depends on the innovative power of our economy. There are the entrepreneurs of tomorrow who create growth and jobs. There are those service providers, whose knowledge, creativity and commitment depend on our future. We owe you the best conditions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If we want to secure the best opportunities for education for young people, it is ultimately about much more than just economic success. In addition to basic knowledge, skills and competence, a comprehensive education includes musical-creative education, a solid basis of values, as well as movement and sport. The most successful will be those countries that invest in education and research that promote creativity, allow curiosity, encourage it, and in which the courage to try new things is supported and not dampened. This also represents a very large employment opportunity: If we want to invest 2.5 percent of our GDP in research and development, we need thousands of scientists, researchers and experts in companies, universities and research institutions. This government says to the innovative research location Austria. However, we must also take account of the ethical responsibility that must be associated with research in the field of biomedicine. Biomedicine and biotechnology have long found a place in medical research. We support the opportunities, but we also commit ourselves to drawing ethical boundaries. Our aim is to enforce a cloning ban on people through national, European and international regulations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Our concrete reform projects: The burden on parents and students has grown too high: The hourboard is too extensive, the curriculum too thick. We want to relieve young people by two hours of lessons per week and unravel and modernise their curriculum. However, quality assurance at schools must also be enhanced. To secure basic education across the board, we want to receive the small schools in rural areas. They are not only educational centres, but also important cultural institutions in the communities. Learning can be read above all. In the LESE-FIT project, reading and reading is promoted. The aim is for all children to be able to read reliably after school. This requires the best-trained teachers, universities for pedagogical professions, and further training for teachers will be integrated in the future. It needs a modern and performance-oriented salary system for teachers, a better distribution in the life income curve, which at the beginning of the career brings a higher, then a flater rise in income. Of course, the implementation of the university reform, for which we have received much approval in the country and a lot of attention abroad, will continue. We confess to socially acceptable study contributions, for it is justified that a future academic pays about 7 percent of the study costs himself; more than 90 percent pay anyway the taxpayers, including the small and medium-sized taxpayers, to do so. However, the contributions will remain at the universities to improve the study conditions and the quality of teaching. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Anyone who wants to study in Austria can do so – regardless of their social situation. We will set up a foundation in the funding of studies for particularly talented people and make study contributions tax deductible for professionals in their own professional field – a new approach. In an analogy to the model of building savings – highly successful – a model of educational saving could be developed, which can also be used to finance the study contributions. The aim is to promote lifelong learning. To increase the research rate, we will make a second tranche of €600 million of special funding available until 2006. The restructuring of initial research funding is an important step towards simplifying the structures, bringing more transparency, greater efficiency and better results for the money used. To promote the research site of Austria, the implementation of the EU Biopatent Directive also counts. This means we want to strengthen the many biotech companies, especially the start-ups. Future needs: Health and pension security. There is a very close relationship between health and quality of life. A modern health system must therefore, first and foremost, fulfil two tasks: Those who are sick must be able to rely on the offer and the benefits of our high-quality health system. Those who are healthy should be supported to prevent disease. That is why we will significantly strengthen the personal responsibility, the precautionary medicine and activate people through bonus models to this self-responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I say it very clearly here: The necessary reform of health care is not about making less money available to the health sector. No one saves on health. On the contrary: Free-standing financial resources should benefit patients directly. We put the sick cash registers on healthy legs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Our concrete reform plans: By combining health and accident insurance – of course, while maintaining quality in both areas – as well as structural reforms at the local health phone, we can save a lot of money from insured persons through less administration without losing quality. The establishment of national health funds, as is now being tested in Vorarlberg, can save costs on the one hand, on the other hand, but also significantly improve the supply, particularly for the established practical doctors, on the other. Contribution justice is also a matter of fairness. The same contribution is to be made for the same benefits. Therefore, for the first time we unite the health insurance contributions of the workers, because there is no reasonable argument that workers pay 0.75% more health insurance contributions than employees. An increase in pensioners' health insurance contributions ensures their access to medical progress in every situation of life, every year, in every area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Furthermore, we want a reform of self retention, because at present the existing restraints, mostly without limits, are straining the chronically ill. Social security schemes should therefore have the right to develop and establish a fairer system. In the pharmaceutical sector, not only savings should be achieved by changing the practice of prescription, but above all through 12 months recipes and other measures should also be made easier for chronically ill patients. We see in telemedicine an absolute future project for the benefit of patients: Data from studies will be available more quickly for hospitals as well as doctors. Unnecessary double examinations are saved for the patient. Better, more comprehensive diagnostics are possible. Hospitals and practical doctors receive permanent and direct access to the latest developments in medicine in diagnostics, medication and surgical techniques. The human quality of our society, ladies and gentlemen, is also measured by how we accompany our fellow human beings in the last phase of their lives. In the future, there will be a sufficient supply of hospice facilities for all those who need it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! In the pension discussion, two population trends are rightly highlighted: Unfortunately, the number of births is decreasing – despite a gratifying trend change in Austria last year – and the number of older people is increasing. However, fewer and fewer children and more and more seniors mean a dramatic change in the relationship between the professionals and the pensioners. If two employees come to a pensioner today, this ratio could, according to calculations, be such in a few decades that an active employee would have to challenge the entire pension of a pensioner. This development makes it clear that in our pension system, fewer and fewer workers need to finance more and more pensioners. And there's a huge gap of justice. We must give young people a real, just chance of an existential pension in old age, and we will implement a pension reform that really deserves this name. No one is supposed to be insecured. In Austria, we are building the second and third pillars of old age insurance with the new supplementary farm, employee care, the attractive private pension model. And all this must be seen in the overall context. – This course is right, and we will continue this course. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Sburny: This is cynical!]] Our concrete reform projects: Even during this legislative period, a uniform pension right is to be introduced for all Austrians. This means: no more privileges, but clear, transparent rules: contribution-oriented, fair and comprehensible – an individual pension account. In addition, the introduction of a minimum pension for those in need alone and old people who are dependent on social assistance after reaching the retirement age. – A very important step in the fight against poverty. The increase in the age of access to early retirement was, in principle, out of dispute in the negotiations with all political parties and is also considered necessary by all experts. We want to go this way carefully and carefully. We start at the beginning of 2004, and only at the beginning of 2010 will the retirement age – except for pension in case of illness or invalidity – be 60 or 65 years, as provided for in the law. At the same time, there are special rules for long-term persons. At the same time – because it is always different in the media, I emphasize this: at the same time! – a comprehensive accompanying package for the labour market to help older workers enters into force. Qualification offensives and the appropriate design of the workplace are also included as well as a noticeable additional wage reduction for older people – more than 10 percent for some years – on both the service provider and the employee side. A gradual increase in the conversion period and an adjustment of the increase in the amount will strengthen the insurance character. This goal also serves to expand the bonus/malus system. Invalidity, incapacity for work and incapacity for work are to be revised. These pensions must also be adapted to the needs of the new working world. The demand for fair opportunities for participation in our society is also open to people with disabilities, and precisely the "European Year of People with Disabilities 2003" we once again take the opportunity to discuss their issues here. We stand for the same access of all people to benefits in all areas of life. We want to deepen social and professional integration and create a barrier-free personal environment. A Federal Disability Equality Act is drawn up, all legal provisions are reviewed and adapted for discrimination. In the case of renovations and new buildings in the public sector, we will ensure barrier-free use. Throughout Austria, disabled people are to be designed. – Ladies and gentlemen! Tourism is also required here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Future needs: solid state finances. Of course, the principles of this government – security, sustainability and justice – are also considered guidelines of our budgetary policy. We have already shown in the last three years: This government stands for sound state finances. We ended the old debt policy. A zero deficit was reached for the first time in 2001. In 2002 we had an excellent result, despite the fading of the economy and floods. With a responsible financial policy, we want to ensure that the future of young people is not offset by debt mountains, because there is nothing more unsocial than making debt at the expense of the next generation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Deputies Mag. Worm and Eder:Eurofighter!]] We will therefore reduce the tax rate to 43 percent by 2006 through two tax reductions. In 2010 it is expected to be 40 percent. Our goals: The focus is on a clear tax relief. It will cover a volume of about €3 billion and will be carried out in two stages. ==References====External links== January 2004 and brings a net relief of 500 million, 600 million €. With a full tax exemption from gross annual income of almost €14 500, 200 000 Austrians are exempt from the tax payment. In addition, a reduction in the additional wage costs for older workers will be added. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] An ecological tax reform means a modestly higher taxation of energy consumption while at the same time relieving the labour factor – exactly what many have always called for. This creates jobs and corresponds exactly to the eco-social objectives of the EU countries. With the introduction of a preferential taxation of non-profits – in concrete terms the introduction of the half tax rate, but at least 20 percent – a claim of the middle class is met. The second stage of the tax reform in 2005 will bring even greater tax relief and simplification and transparency. Overall, these two reform stages are the biggest tax reduction in the last decades. - We're ready to do that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The scope for this will be achieved through the continuation of the administrative reform, the fight against undeclared work and the review of no longer necessary federal expenditure. Tax cuts increase the purchasing power of the population and set an important economic impulse. The agreed measures will strengthen the growth potential and contribute to greater justice, but also to more ecological orientation. High house! This Federal Government is taking the form of an independent Austrian path. The times are over, that we can or should be oriented to others, for example Germany. We should go our own way, which may also become a model for others. Whoever enters the footsteps of others will never overtake anyone! Our goal is to advance in 2010 among the three best countries in Europe. And now we have to get on the way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This path, ladies and gentlemen, dear Austrians, may not always be very easy – it will require some victims, it will address some new challenges – but the goal is worth it. Come with me! It's worth it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e3670	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement. We are going into the debate on the Government Declaration. Mr Gusenbauer spoke. His speaking time will be set to 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e3694	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by clarifying that there is quite a consensus in a number of points that the Federal Chancellor has mentioned. I think we should make it clear at the beginning of this new period of government that the most important project for the future of our country, which we hope will be in consensus in Parliament, will be the enlargement of the European Union, and we are all here in the House on this project, and it will also be implemented for Austria. [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP as well as of representatives of the liberals and the Greens.]] I also do not want to hide the fact that, in some aspects of the Government Declaration, there are approaches which were the subject of the debate during the election debate, which were also the subject of those discussions that took place in the run-up to this government. There is a clear yes to some of these aspects. If the health insurance contributions for workers and employees are now equalised, this is a positive step in the right direction. If more is done for the disabled in our country in the “year of the disabled, ” this is also a real step in the right direction. If we together try to meet the challenges of economic modernisation and competition in Austria, there are also aspects that I consider to be absolutely correct. If one of the main errors of the last legislative period in the field of social policy, namely the elimination of the women's ministry, is finally corrected and a women's ministry is reintroduced, there will also be approval by the Social Democratic Group. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Ellwall.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor also pointed out, however, that it is necessary to pronounce what is. – Please do not fall into the mistake of always talking about a part of reality and hiding another part. It is certainly true that Austria is one of the best economic locations in Europe, but nevertheless, Federal Chancellor, the number of young people without work has increased in recent years, as have the older people in our country who do not have a job. And although the Austrian workers are among the most diligent in Europe – only in this way can the high productivity increase be explained – the Austrian workers net cash will receive the lowest growth in all of Europe. If you, Mr Bundeskanzler, say that Austria should be one of the top three countries in 2010, everyone will certainly agree, but the following questions will be raised: Who are we supposed to be the best for? And: Who's best to go? If you say that Austrian workers should get their fair share of higher value added and therefore be number three in Europe in 2010, I can agree, Mr Bundeskanzler, but an abstract goal, which no one can use, does not help anyone, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If, in this context, I consider your proposals for reform, which you have presented to us today, I sometimes feel: It is “reform” on it, but when looking more closely, there is only a burden in it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You, Mr Bundeskanzler, have also talked about securing pensions – that is one of the main challenges for Austria – and if you have listened carefully, you have noticed that there should be a significant change. So far, in Austria, we have assumed that the older generation is receiving a pension that is intended to be life-proof and standard. – In today’s government declaration, however, as They have talked about future generations' pensions, but in this context they have only been more concerned about ‘existing in existence’. This does not mean that, although the generation of workers active today pays contributions that contribute to both security of living and standard of living, today's active generation will only receive a pension that is existential in the future. What does the other thing mean, ladies and gentlemen, as a drastic reduction in pensions for those people in Austria who today, through their daily work, maintain this system? – This has nothing to do with reform, but it is a burden at the expense of future generations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When it comes to reforming the pension system, it is not enough to introduce a uniform pension system at some point in this legislative period, which will eventually become effective in 2030 or 2033. With such a procedure the pensions will not be guaranteed in the next decades! Those measures you mentioned today, Mr Bundeskanzler, are measures that may close the funding gap in 2006 but do not go beyond that. And you make the same mistake you made in 2000: They talk about "long-term pension insurance" and take measures that significantly burden a part of the population but require further reform in 2006. And this is not a reform, it is a pure burden policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that if we openly discuss issues such as generation solidarity – you, Federal Chancellor, have talked about ‘living solidarity’, which you believe should not be available until 2010; I would claim that we should already achieve this solidarity today – then we must also note that there are people in Austria today who have very, very high pension incomes – much more, much more than ever a ‘normal’ employee or worker could ever achieve. When it comes to just reforming the system, it is only right and reasonable to ask for a contribution from those who have very high pensions today. A retired Minister or Secretary of State would not fall out of the crown if he made a solidarity contribution today to ensure that pensions are guaranteed today and in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let me mention a second area where you are talking about reforms. They say the schools are the places where the future of our country takes place, where there are those young talents that will shape the future of our country. I'll give you the right, but I'll ask you the question: What will be done for the future talents of our country? For me, talents are not just those that are above average in one or many areas. I am of the opinion that no one can miss Austria at all – whether the school performance is an under-average or above-average one. But I ask you the question: What are you doing for these people? If we find today that we are in the tenth place in the world, while our educational expenditure is at the forefront, I ask the question: Where is the objective here that Austria wants an education system that leads us from 10th to 1st place? Where are the measures that are also possible through day-to-day schools to promote individual talent? Where are the proposals for a genuine educational reform, which is a new school of 21. would be justified by the century? Federal Chancellor! I have the impression that your proposals are neither sustainable nor courageous, but primarily short-term, interest-political and brave. These are not the reforms that we need for Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You have rightly pointed out that we are in an economically difficult situation. And my question is: What is being done in this economically difficult situation? They refer again to the year 2005 and say that in 2005 comes at once through a great tax reform of the great blessing over the Austrians. Well, I would like to remind you: At the beginning of the year 2000, you stood here and said: At the beginning, the strong cuts are now necessary so that there is a zero deficit, and at the end of the legislative period, there will be a very large tax reform, where the harvest will be effected. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Time of harvest!]] Well, we're in 2003. That would have been the end of the last legislative period. And what is the harvest? – The harvest is that you will recover and announce new burdens for the Austrians and refer to them again: But in the end the harvest will come. – Well, ladies and gentlemen, if the harvest is in ever new strains, then the Austrian people will be grateful to you, Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The question at all is whether this course, which you are presenting here, is right for economic policy. Is it not necessary for state and society, in times when the economy does not develop so dynamically, to set up those activities that ensure that the economy is stimulated, for example in the area of infrastructure, in the area of boosting demand by the population, in the field of research and development? We should not wait until the economy recovers from itself at some point in time to come to some kind of distribution. It is a matter of public and political responsibility to provide this assistance in times when the economy needs help. This would now be, in 2003, and not necessary in 2005, my much-honored Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you address the solid state finances, I have to say: I'm most amazed! What has happened here today has been to bury the goal of the zero deficit, ultimately, because if you look at what you have done in the government agreement, you can see that there is nothing else in it than that even in 2005 or 2006, in which you expect the economy to develop well again, the deficits will not go down, but the opposite is the case. Even in those times when you are forecasting an economically good situation, the deficits will go up again according to your expectations. That's where I put, my very dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is: What is the meaning of such a course? We always agreed in the House that we should try to help the economy in economically bad times and consolidate the budget in economic good times. But if you do not even provide a zero deficit for economic good times, I ask: When will it come? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What is contained in this government agreement is the departure from the zero deficit and from a sound financial policy and means new debts for the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They have highlighted some aspects of reforms in the last legislative period, including the future of universities. The future of universities is certainly crucial to our country's level of education and research and is therefore crucial to what we call future security. But do you really believe that if you send individual eternal bouts to the university councils, you can win the future of our country with such people? – I do not believe this, Federal Chancellor and my honourable ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That's why I have to tell you: I have the impression that what you call reform – you could still prove it in many other areas – is always the word reform, but the content is mostly a burden. I have the impression that you are afraid of the real, fundamental reforms that our country needs. The reason for this is quite simple: Everyone in Austria would wonder why, after two and a half years of the cabinet bowl I, such a huge need for reform is present at once. What has the last government done for two and a half years when this enormous need for reform now exists? And of course, people would rightfully say: Clearly, the last two and a half years of reform have not been so glorious if such a reform is in place. But if this kind of reform is already in place, I ask the question: Why are you so brave in the pension reform and do not want to introduce a single pension system for all now? Why are you so brave in the educational reform and do not want a modern school of the 21st century? Create century? Why are you so brave in the health reform and only increase the insurance contributions and leave the structural reforms unclear? Why are you so brave in the field of a modern state reform that would result in not only a single competence being pushed back and forth, but really a modern state in a modern Europe of 21st century? Could the beginning of the century? Where is your courage, Federal Chancellor, so urgently needed today? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You know, sometimes when you listen to you like this and you represent it – and I have to say: Some of the points I have mentioned are quite reasonable, and there are also a few points where we actually agree – the impression: What is certain, these are the burdens. What is still in doubt, then, are the reforms that have been announced in a cloudy manner. Even if you are talking about ecological sustainability, it is striking: Fix is the increase in spray prices. But what the ecological character of a reform should be, it remains open. What is first and foremost fixed is that all Austrians pay more for the diesel and the farmers less – which is certainly nice for the farmers. But what the ecological nature of such a measure should be, if you are talking about sustainability, you have not been able to communicate it to us today, Federal Chancellor. Often one has the impression that what you call a reform is a rather impotent policy of representing interests. This will not continue Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Becoming Rightful They point out that it is not possible to solve all the problems on the first day of a new government with a declaration of government. And I agree with you. It is a legislative period ahead of us, which we do not know how long it will take and how stable the cooperation should be. I assume that we are looking forward to a cooperation between the government and Parliament for the next few years. There are a number of reforms in which you know very well that you will need at least the broad approval of the National Council, namely a two-thirds majority. And I say very clearly on the day of this debate on the Government Declaration: If it is the same as in the last legislative period that the government is only trying to cross Parliament, then there will be no partnership. However, if there is a genuine dialogue on reforms that need a two-thirds majority in the National Council, and this dialogue also leads to a partnership between Parliament and Government, we will be prepared to discuss these reforms with the government, work with them, and also come into common solutions. It will be your government, Federal Chancellor, whether you distance yourself from the old bad style of the old black and blue government and find a new style, to a new way of dealing with Parliament. We are ready for this constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e3906	I now come to the floor of the honourable Member. Molterer. The clock is set for him for 20 minutes. - Please, Mr Magister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e3924	Mr. Federal President! Mr President of the National Council! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear members of the Austrian Federal Government! On behalf of the Club of the Austrian People's Party, I would like to wish you, dear members of the Federal Government, every good thing to do to the fishing. I wish you good luck, I wish you the success that has been given on the basis of this excellent work agreement for Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== Austria has chosen November, and the Austrians have given very clear signals. On the one hand, they said: Yes, we want to change in Austria, we want reform in Austria, we want to look forward in Austria! because people in this country have a very good sense of what is necessary. They want the necessary decision to be made. This is the will of the voters of the 24th century. November, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] ==References== It was also made clear in November that the Austrians want the Austrian People's Party as their leading force in this country. They have given us the responsibility and clearly said that they want Wolfgang Schüssel as the Federal Chancellor of a new federal government, which leads the country to a good future with a calm and secure hand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrians have given the Austrian People's Party three options for the formation of a joint federal government. Therefore, in high responsibility for the country, in high responsibility for the future of Austria in recent months, we have negotiated intensively with all parties represented in the National Council on the formation of a federal government. These negotiations have also made it clear. On the one hand, you have made it clear – and I think this is positive – that, Mr Gusenbauer, there is actually some basic consensus here in Parliament between the political parties: Yes, it is necessary to change things. Yes, it is necessary to continue fiscal consolidation. Yes, it is necessary to make a pension reform. Yes, it is necessary to make changes in the health system. Yes, it is necessary to implement the state reform, the state reform. Yes, it is necessary to ensure efficiency in the administration. And, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a progress, a substantial progress because we can build on a kind of common basis: What does need for our country? However, these negotiations and these discussions have also brought a second clarity: They have made it clear who in this country is actually willing to take responsibility, who in this country is actually willing to carry the reforms, who in fact is ready for decisions and for changes and who also has the courage to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Sburny: And throw all the principles over the pile!]] Mr Gusenbauer, I must say to you: If you stand here today and say that you call for the big reforms, and if you stand here today and say that you demand courage, I ask you: Did you leave the courage? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer, at the end of this process, did you not choose the easier, perhaps easier way from your point of view? Didn't you decide to stay in opposition? And have you not really put the interests of the party, the social democracy, before the interests of Austria? Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, also to you. We have conducted intense negotiations. Also with you, Mr Van der Bellen, I had the impression that you were actually interested and willing that, despite this will, you simply could not, because simply essential groups and parts of the Greens, especially the so-called green base, which is in truth the functional basis, did not want to carry this path along and could not carry it. It is equally clear in these negotiations that we are presenting with the Austrian Freedom Party a courageous, a future-oriented programme, a work agreement with clear objectives, with a good future for Austria, with a future that will be made sustainable and just. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For this we have the clear mandate of voters. For this, the Austrian People's Party and also the Austrian Freedom Party have taken on the willingness to take responsibility. Yes, we are willing to take responsibility for Austria, and we have the clear will and the courage to use this responsibility even in difficult times, to make changes and to make decisions for Austria, necessary, right and good decisions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We build on the economic strength of our country, we build on the power of the workers and entrepreneurs in this country, the workers and the farmers. We build on a high level of social security, on a high standard of quality of life in our country and on a high standard of security for our fellow citizens in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But we also know very well where the shoe is pressing us. We know that we have a lot to do, for example, in the area of dynamisation of the economy and the location, for example in the objective of ensuring full employment for our people in Austria, because we know the concerns of young and old people on the labour market. Of course, we also know that in the field of long-term protection of old and young old age benefits, we have to set the right impulses for women, as well as for women, with new instruments, as well as the creation of the right to part-time work for parents, but also for people who do not have it easily in our society. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, from the point of view of the Austrian People's Party, this agreement is the solid basis, not just the basis of work, but the basis for the future. Why? – Because we say a clear yes to Europe with this agreement, because Europe for us, for Austria, is the chance for the future. We want to take the opportunity of Europe to participate fully in all the integration steps in the European Union. We accept 100 percent and support 1,000 percent of the European Union's enlargement because it increases our opportunities for the future. We will also actively involve Austria with its interests in the Convention to ensure that important Austrian concerns, such as nuclear safety, water or, for example, historical issues, as in the context of Beneš, are also taken into account in the European Union. We are talking about a comprehensive and substantial state and administrative reform. This will be very fundamental, ladies and gentlemen. The first question will be: What's the state doing? What tasks should he take on in the interests of the citizens, and what should he no longer do? The second question will be: Who does it in the state, who can best, closest to the citizen, the cheapest, in the interest of subsidiarity as far as possible at the lowest level? And we will answer the question: How does the state do it? – Modern, cheap and efficient. The aim is to serve the citizen and save tax money. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will implement the pension reform. Mr Gusenbauer: If you say it's basic consensus that we have to secure pensions for old and young, then I mean: You can't stand there half way! We offer the perspective for a long-term orientation with a uniform pension right for all. That's fair and fair. We are not afraid to take the short-term measures needed now, to implement this legislative period and, of course, to address the needs of the labour market, for example women, in a special way, just as we intend to create minimum pensions for people who have not been able to achieve them in their own working life. Our aim is to have a strong first pillar and to supplement the age insurance with a better second and third pillar, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We want and will continue to guarantee stable state finances for Austrians. The successful path will continue. Mr Gusenbauer, in turn: If you address the question of zero deficit here, I think that many people have remembered what turns you have made on this issue in recent months. Once you said that it was an entirely irresponsible economic goal, and a few weeks later you wanted to anchor it in the Constitution. You don't know as much as you want. We know what we want! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We want sound budgetary management, and we want a discharge for citizens, for the economy, for taxpayers, for example, Mr Gusenbauer, not from 2005 onwards, but for us to start in 2004. There was obviously a gap in your calendar between 2003 and 2005. I'll fill her. The first step in the discharge for the smaller incomes will be taken in 2004. We provide income up to €14 500 tax-free, we reduce the additional wage costs, and we will also offer the appropriate prospects for the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, quality orientation, continuation of the necessary restructuring in the university area and the discharge of pupils are the goal in the field of education policy. We invest in research and development – about €600 million in this legislative period – because research and development for businesses and workers have a bad future. The security of our country, the security of citizens, ladies and gentlemen, is not an exchange object for us, for the Austrian People's Party. No, the security of our country, the security of citizens, we must guarantee in the field of internal security as well as through the necessary investments and decisions in external security. We still want to remain one of the safest countries in the world. This means, however, that investment now has to be made, that we now have to decide. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We need for the economy the necessary deregulation, the necessary flexibility, for example during working hours or loading hours. But we also need the necessary qualification for apprentices, for young people, so that we can offer the perspective here, just as in research and development. Ladies and gentlemen! This programme for Austria, this future programme for Austria, provides the basis for sustainable, fair and just development in our country, a solid basis that ensures the obligations of the necessary, which has to be done, but at the same time offers prospects for the interesting, innovative aspects in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! We have also implemented and summarized these objectives of the Labour Convention in a resolution. According to § 55 para. 3 GOG in conjunction with § 53 para. I would like to explain the key points of this resolution. I would then ask the President to copy and distribute the entire motion for a resolution. The main points of this resolution and our objective are: We want Europe as an opportunity. We want to guarantee the Austrians optimum internal and external security. We want to create jobs together with a strong economy. We want to relieve citizens of taxes and taxes. We want to put the budgets in order and keep them stable. We want to guarantee pension insurance for all people in our country, for young and old. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Only you can't!]] We will implement the health reform, set up an education and research initiative and, with a comprehensive state and administrative reform, make Austria even more efficient and successful. Ladies and gentlemen! There is an ambitious work programme that this Austrian Federal Government has presented to us. I said in the beginning that the Austrians know exactly what needs to be done. With this working agreement, we also give the Austrians the right answers, answers to the questions of the future. We will be looking for consensus with the partners on the part of the Austrian People's Party and, of course, on the part of the government groups. For example, we will seek a consensus with the federal government, with the countries and with the municipalities on state reform. We will, of course, also involve the social partners and invite them to take this future path in the interest of the country. From this point of view, I also invite the opposition parties to seek consensus, because, in my firm conviction, it is also important for Parliament's reputation that we put the common position on the parting. I believe that today's speech by Mr Gusenbauer is quite interesting, as in some areas it gives reason for hope that consensus will also be sought on the part of the opposition. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, we will also have to make the necessary decisions on the part of the government parties if we are convinced that they are correct for Austria. With this agreement of work, ladies and gentlemen, we will take a red and white-red course for our Austria in a strong Europe. I'll invite you to: Go along this way, on this good path for Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e4073	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Magistrate. Mr Molterer has been sufficiently supported and properly brought in and is therefore involved in the negotiations. It will be copied and distributed and printed in the Stenographical Protocol. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6291	Mr Van der Bellen is next spoken. Time limit: 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6309	Mr President! Mr President of the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Half a year after the collapse of the old Federal Government, consisting of the People's Party and the Liberals, the new Federal Government is now presenting itself, whereby I think it should be said better: the newly-flicked Federal Government, not the new Federal Government. Just to remember: Half a year ago, in September 2002, this old Federal Government ran into a reef. This ship of the government has run into a reef, and this reef also has a name, Jörg Haider and Knittelfeld. No one knows this better than the much smaller part of the Federal Government. After this – what do you call it? [[Call the Greens:Schiffbruch!]] – Shipwreck, thanks – ladies and gentlemen are really attentive – after this shipwreck this wreck appears to have been squabbled together again, and the most necessary lattes were re-enacted. [[general hustle and bustle]] What I know was no doubt put back between the different planks any means that should be used to reduce water collapse. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's called Kalphater!]] You are now at sea again, Mr Scheibner and Mr Molterer from the new government parties. I assume and hope for you that the water pumps are fully in operation, because the old problem, the old reef, the old cliffs are still present, these are not gone by the new government, the new government declaration, the new government programme. The sharks, the windwoods, the Stadlers – I deliberately use the plural – are still there. You will have noticed, Mr Scheibner, that I have not mentioned your name here. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's still coming!]] They're all still there, and I'm excited about what depths this little ship will go to sooner or later in the zigzag course. However, in one point, Mr Molterer, I am right to say: The worst cocks have also been driven to the lake for three years and longer. [[General hustle and bustle.]] That's right! It is possible that the three-and-a-half years will work, that the latest date of the next National Council elections will be possible. I don't know if I wish, but I'm not afraid either, and that's one of the differences to February 2000. Somehow the steam from outside at that time is from the whole thing, so it happens to me. Isn't that how you're doing? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: No!]] It has been quite exactly three years since we heard here in Parliament the government statement of the Schüssel/Riess-Passer government at that time, and at that time there was a real mood. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: The demonstrations on Thursday, yes!]] That's what the veterans can remember, I think. There was real enthusiasm on the right side of this house, anger and bitterness, or whatever on the left side of this house. There was something going on! There were standing ovations for the Federal Chancellor at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Now there is resignation on the left side of this house!]] But what is today? – With strenuous concentration, the representatives of the government parties have heard the Federal Chancellor's statement. Most of them have looked into something and probably thought: Ah so, now I have to clap! There were no standing ovations. – I don’t know why that was so, that must have reasons. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You could have helped!]] The reasons for this cannot be found in the rhetoric of the Federal Chancellor, which was the same three years ago as today. [[Abg. Oil: The Gobi Desert was in between!]] The reasons cannot also be found in the rhetoric of Mr Molterer, because I find it better, if at all, than that of the then clubman Khol. I am sorry, Mr President. [[General cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] There must be other reasons for this strange mood today. I don't think it was just the outer pressure that created this mood at the time. We would not have needed the measures or so-called sanctions of the EU-14 to have our own opinion, especially on the liberties of the time. But it did. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you lack the sanctions?]] In the report of the three wise men, the then Freedom Party, which still exists, was not quite imperceptibly characterized, namely as a “right-wing populist party with radical elements” and extremist statements. I remember like it was yesterday. I don't even think that this short characterization is so bad, and it should be somehow consistent in Austria too. In foreign media, it is still very different. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] What is the reason for this strange mood, for this mixture of obscurity and boredom? – I don’t know what this is in the House, but to journalists, if I can only give some kind of faith to the comments of the last week, it seems to be similar. What kind of mood is there in the country, what is that? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Your speech!]] They had three options, Mr Molterer: You could form a coalition with SPÖ, you could form a coalition with the greens, and you could repair the old wreck and enter a coalition with the liberals. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:... boring as heated!]] I have to tell you the truth: From the point of view of the Greens, of course, a coalition of ÖVP/SPÖ would not have been very funny. Small opposition party together with another opposition party against an 80 percent majority – this is not pleasant. But chances were already there! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Only nothing would happen!]] A two-thirds majority would finally have been able to implement all those reforms that you have been announcing for years, decades in each declaration of government and which have never yet come – keyword: Federalism and financial compensation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You could have done this with the SPÖ. You didn't. You could have formed a coalition with the greens, but you didn't. Do not speak out on the green basis or on the functionaries of the Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You need explanation enough!]] I still know them better than you do, Mr Molterer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: I can remember exactly the Vienna Greens!]] There have already been in-depth reasons why we have not come together, among other things because of the pension reform and the lack of measures in the field of the labour market, which have been referred to again today in the Government Declaration, but are de facto not available. What you've done is your right: You warmed up the old coalition again. It is mathematically clear that the majority is determined in this House, even if it is scarce. But it is not a powerful new beginning, Mr Molterer. You have not been able to address this to anyone of the commentators in this country or any other political interested person. Everyone is clear: The FPÖ had to go to this government if it did not want to get into a serious crisis of existence. Government Now It stops with the last offer of the FPÖ. That's your right! But the powerful start, this responsibility for the future, and what I have not heard today from good words, you cannot convey in this way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Is there content too?]] I have already come to some content, ladies and gentlemen, even though I must say that it is, of course, unfortunate that as an opposition politician only twenty minutes of speaking time are available, but I am known as a speaker of short speeches, I will probably not take my time out at all. In view of this background, of course, we are wondering: Is there any “blue manuscript” in this government program or in the government statement, or is there not? - There's a little bit already. [[Abg. Dolinschek: “Hackler rule”!]] The so-called 'hackler rule', Mr. Cot, would have occurred in one form or another in any government programme. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Not with you!]] – Certainly with us, you can’t count on that. But what you can count on is the complete lack of a positive approach in the area of the so-called integration policy. There is nothing more of an facilitated form of the achievement of dual citizenship, there is nothing more of family union, there is nothing more of the abolition of the quota in family succession and there is nothing more to read of “residence permit is equal work permit”. The ÖVP obviously didn't care, it was important to the liberals, and that's why it's not in the government programme. It would have been an important point for us. At least this is about certain basic values in the area of civil rights and human rights. We are sufficiently aware of the positions of the FPÖ in these areas. But I don't understand that the ÖVP – as it turns out – doesn't matter. – One thing was interesting: On the one hand, the subject was discussed in the negotiations with the Greens, on the other hand this was discussed in the negotiations with the FPÖ, but there it flew out of the programme within two days, as if it were nothing. I ask the colleagues from the ÖVP: Is this kind of popularity that positions in the area of certain basic values are completely interchangeable within hours, the politics of the middle? Is this the politics of the middle that you always conjure? This is the policy of a free will, of an unprincipled popularity which I cannot understand. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point in which the FPÖ has prevailed within a few hours concerns the appointment of the University Councils, which has already been mentioned. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Forward-looking occupation!]] They keep people who are – how was that? – the “German minority in Austria” seems to be part of it and it appears to create an essential part of its personal identity, for future-looking, future-proof, for suitable university policy in 21. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Oils: “Feast! ”]] [[Abg. Oils: German national!]] This kind of mental attitude has already destroyed the Habsburg monarchy. I hope that the universities of the 21st century ==References====External links== [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is partly not uninteresting to compare the Government Declaration with the Government Programme, with the Coalition Convention. That's not identical. Of course, it's quite similar, but it's not identical. However, I am grateful that we today have been spared by the Federal Chancellor in the Government Declaration by two of us who are in the Coalition Convention. However, I would like to say to the general public that the first two paragraphs relating to the Austrian EU policy of the future are dealt with in the chapter ‘EU policy’, which is at least at the forefront of the Coalition Convention. Where, do you think, are the priorities, the priorities of Austrian foreign policy's commitment within the European Union? – In the protection function for South Tyrol! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: In the protective function!]] So that there is no misunderstanding, Mr. Khol: I am also Tyrolean, I know how important South Tyrol is and was for Austrian politics, but I must say: I was not aware that we had special problems with the fact that South Tyrol had no very well-functioning autonomy within Italy, so that it had to be put in the first place of a coalition agreement! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you allow an intermediate call?]] Mr Khol! Where are we? Ask You're the South Tyroleans, how bad they are! There you will not meet a South Tyrolean who confirms this. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you allow me a call?]] Now on the second paragraph in EU policy. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Frattini questioned the Gruber-De-Gasperi agreement!]] The second absolute priority of the EU's black and blue policy is k.u.k. Minorities, if they are German-speaking, the German-speaking, Habsburg minorities in the former crown countries. – Yes, this is an interesting topic! But what is the priority of EU policy, ladies and gentlemen? What did you think? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] The Convention appears somewhere further in the back, and the Constitutional Convention within the European Union is mentioned as being important and what I know. But a clear statement, which Austrian positions, namely positions of Schwarz-Blau, will be represented within the framework of the Constitutional Discussion of the Convention, will look for as in vain in the Government Convention as in today's Government Declaration. When I read the Coalition Convention and listen to today's declaration of government, I noticed something that is really strange: There is no longer any Austrian foreign policy. While there is a chapter on education – well – there is a chapter on women – very good – there is a chapter on universities, there is a chapter on the EU, but there is no chapter on Austrian foreign policy – with the exception of development cooperation. I know the Coalition Convention. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: This is probably a copy mistake!]] Show me what chapters the title “Austria’s Foreign Policy” carries! I wonder where the Minister of Foreign Affairs was at this time that she was able to allow Austria to be officially affected by any future foreign policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: In the chandeliers!]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: That's how the speaking time goes!]] As with the last statement of government – these are thick papers – it is impossible to be fair, you cannot go through every single chapter. It is quite clear that there are points that we support. There are also points that we support with reservation as long as we do not know the details. Let us, for example, address the issue of women's policy. We very much welcome the fact that there is now again a women's minister. I personally also like the occupation with Mrs Rauch-Kallat. I think that some of the objectives set out in the chapter “Women”, “Women’s Policy”, in the Coalition Convention are good. However, I wonder in part: Everything concrete isn't negotiated yet, is it? For example, we have heard today that the employment rate, including those of women, will be increased in the coming years. Yes, that's necessary! It will remain a necessity – even in view of the change in the age pyramid and for other reasons too. This requires conditions such as qualification measures, for example. Is that something in the Coalition Convention? - You'll see. What else? – If the wife has a family or children, he needs a discharge on the childcare side. We all know that. In Sweden the birth rate is higher and the employment rate of women is also higher. When is the result finally drawn in Austria? – There is nothing in the Coalition Convention again! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is another point of reference to the fact that the countries and municipalities have, as it were, to remember their obligations. But what about the covenant? – Are there not 10-year-old children going to federal schools? In the first class there are ten years of gymnasium. There's no babysitting, not even an idea? These thoughts are only made in relation to kindergartens, and are the countries and communities responsible for them? This is the policy of the Federal Government? – That will not be enough, Mrs Minister, Mrs Frauenminister! I hope you will get involved in the individual questions in the other ministries. We know – the Chancellor himself has emphasized this again today – that women's policy is a cross-sectional matter. Yeah, that's her! I hope this will make Mrs Rauch-Kallat a very unpleasant minister. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! Did you notice that there is a point where you were directly addressed, namely, in the chapter “Women” in the Coalition Convention, which means: ‘own pension scheme for women (see chapter Pensions)’? Now I look at, try to criticise me seriously, turn back to the chapter “Pensions” – this is on pages 18 to 20, I know, I think, externally – and look for the item “Independent Pensions for Women”. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: It's not standing!]] – You can look for a long time, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, there's something lost. I hope you'll be Your male colleagues in the Federal Government are quite soon reminding you of this. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Your “Women” chapter mentions Gender Mainstreaming several times. Gender mainstreaming is a terrible English word – that is, gender justice or how you translate it, because I'm not sure – but it's important. They will have to pay great attention to how this affects women in the coming pension reforms, because it is quite clear that the 40 years of throughput – whether right now or not – and the reduction in the increase amount will have a very different effect on women than on men because they have other employment biographies. You know that, we know that. So there's a lot about you. On the issues of environmental policy, social policy and pension policy, I am sure that my fellow Members, Madeleine Petrovic, Eva Glawischnig and Karl Ödellingerrund, will also have other members of my club. Finally, I would just like to say: Of course, there is a chance of constructive cooperation, Mr Molterer, not only between club members, but also between clubs, if it is possible. But that's not just our thing. We can offer that, we can offer to bring in our know-how if you wish. We would be very interested, we want to gain a little experience, continue to gain experience. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You can never learn enough!]] You can never learn enough, never know enough, completely right. Another reason would be that power relations in the National Council were clearly different from those three years ago. The majority is scarce, it would have been close with us too. One does not know how this affects, perhaps it also has an impact on the behaviour of government parties. You could wish for that. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I come to my conclusion, Mr President: Hopefully, the new government of the old Federal Government no longer means this miserable “speed kills”, which Mr. Khol hopefully regrets, this driving over the opposition parties. I hope that at least here, or that at least here – I delete the word “even” – a new beginning will take place. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6825	After the exhausted speaking time, Mr Dr. Khol spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that, according to Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time is up to 2 minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure are known. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6865	It may be unusual for the President of the National Council to make an actual correction, but when it comes to South Tyrol, I am a Member. You said there was no foreign policy, and you said that the autonomy of South Tyrol was not threatened. I'm correcting: First: The Government Declaration and the Government Convention are full of foreign policy. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: The Order Award to Fini! You were there!]] I am also correcting: Franco Frattini, Italian Foreign Minister and Bozner Member of Parliament, said that under the European Convention, the European Constitution, the Gruber-De-Gasperi Agreement, and thus the role of Austria's defence power, would fall. [[Abg. Sburny: This is not an actual correction!]] That probably makes the threat of autonomy clear. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: And we have given this an order?]] I am grateful to the Chancellor that Austria's defence function is out of question.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6942	Declarations of gratitude do not constitute an actual correction. Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's The speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6964	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! It was interesting that Klubobmann Van der Bellen complained about the mood in Austria and also the one here in the House and meant that it was so different in the year 2000, namely in the first formation of a reform government between the People's Party and the Liberals. I have heard a bit of a tendon of this mood, Mr Van der Bellen. I don't long for that mood. I don't know what's going on with you. [[Abg. The Enthusiasm!]] I do not hope that you will have tried in 2000 to get rid of a democratically legitimate government in Austria with demonstrations, some also violent demonstrations and some influence from abroad. This climate, ladies and gentlemen, we thank God no longer in Austria, and we are proud of it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We are proud that the previous Federal Government has clearly profiled itself, Mr. Cot! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] They may also look back on this climate that prevailed at the beginning of the year 2000. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Oils anyway!]] We are proud that the Federal Government has shown since 2000 that no one has to fear us, but quite the contrary: that we have carried on Austria, that we have worked well for the people in this country, ladies and gentlemen! I also see this as an order for a new edition of this successful reform coalition between the Liberals and the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Van der Bellen! You said the steam was out. That might be a little self-criticism, because I know of course you missed the chance. You missed the opportunity that might have been given to bring the Greens to a government, and I can imagine that you wanted it seriously. You have referred to disputes and possible problems that should exist with us, but I think the problems you had would have been much greater. You do not believe that you have brought your party, especially your extreme left margin, to a constructive course in a government partnership. You don't really think you did that. In the long term, it is certainly better for the country – perhaps also for you personally – that everything has remained the way it was, Mr Van der Bellen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Gusenbauer! You have said that you are willing to contribute to reforms, discuss content and also contribute. I admit: Her speech was quite constructive. That this is also the line of your party, I would hope, but we will only be able to judge this if your Compagnon Cap has spoken here at the speaker's desk, because normally you have a very good division of tasks: the constructive Gusenbauer and the Demagoge Cap. We are waiting for the SPÖ to be present today, and we are going to look first and foremost at whether you are really willing, Mr Gusenbauer, to follow your words. In the last three years we have often heard of you: If you join us, we are ready to cooperate, we are also ready to take part in reforms. – But if this has been tried, then you have worked for a while, but if it has been a matter of consistently bearing the decisions, then unfortunately not much of this consensus has been felt. [[Abg. Silhavy: Where do you live?]] Where I live? – Thank God in Austria, Mrs. Colleague! We have been grateful to God for preventing an adventure between red and green as in Germany, which you may have wanted, after this election outcome of the 24th century. ==References====External links== This is also a result of the government's reform work. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Of course, it took a long time for this government to be formed, but I say to you: Better negotiate for a long time and do something good than quickly do the wrong thing! It will now be up to the Federal Government to implement a very ambitious, a good, an offensive, a future-oriented government programme, together with our parliamentarians, together with this House, together with the representatives of interest, together with the federal states, especially together with the population in our country. I believe that this government programme is a programme of the present, but also one for the future – for a future in which a reform course is continued, which ensures that state finances do not run out of the row. Mr Gusenbauer! It was interesting that you criticize the fact that the strict holding on the zero deficit should no longer apply. The fact that, when your party was still responsible for Austria, you would have even come near a reform course, a zero deficit, you don't believe it yourself! If we have contributed to the fact that you are learning that it is not good to accept high debt and thus to burden future generations, this has also been a positive effect of three years of free government participation with the Austrian People's Party. I hope it stays that way. Budget renewal is and was an important project. It's been successful. We have created God thanks to the scope of action – in contrast to the red and green experiment in Germany – so that last year we were able to provide adequate compensation to the victims of the flood disaster and to provide the economy with a corresponding economic package in a difficult phase. However, it will now be necessary, in addition to maintaining this consolidation rate, to free the population from an admittedly high tax burden, in terms of minimizing this tax burden. There is a tax relief package with a volume of €3 billion for the population. It is very important for us that we do not move this to the end of the legislative period, but that it is the first discharge package, especially for small incomes, with 1. ==References== This is a social measure that we stand for. This is important, and I do not understand why you criticize it, where you always say that you think it is so important to support this group of people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We also relieve businesses at the same time and ensure that the absurdity introduced by finance ministers Edlinger, namely that for entrepreneurs, not twelve months, but thirteen months, at least in tax terms, has been abolished, that the profits not collected are treated better taxly. In this way, we want to promote the small and medium-sized economy in particular, because we know that this sector is shaping the Austrian economy and creating jobs. We believe that the labour market cannot be revived primarily by government influence, but that healthy businesses and businesses will create jobs, namely sustainable jobs, for Austrians. This is also an important task for this new federal government: to create healthy jobs through a healthy, efficient economy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Why didn't you do that in the last period?]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's about the future. They have said that the government's programme has no future aspects. Not only should you read the headlines, but you should go into detail as well. This programme is very strongly influenced by future topics. It is about giving our young people an opportunity to have a job that has a future through a well-founded, forward-looking training. It is also about turning Austria back into a place of research and development and science. It is also about taking a stronger foothold, for example, in the field of high technology. If we say that the research rate should be increased to 2.5 percent during the legislative period if we provide a funding package of € 600 million for research, then such forward-looking initiatives are important for the future of our youth. If we say, perhaps, that we are different from you in the basic area, that in the centre of our family policy there are not primarily, but not primarily, state childcare facilities, but that the family is of particular importance to us for the education of our young people and we are therefore committed to strengthening family support, that we want to promote families even more in the future, as with the child care allowance, which was a first step, then this is also the manuscript of the liberals who have found their precipitation in the Federal Government's programme. This is also a forward-looking way for the security of our society in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We also send a clear signal to pensioners that we are confessing that rehabilitation steps are necessary. However, we also acknowledge that rehabilitation steps should not be taken in the short term. Mr Gusenbauer! It is not true that we are only burdening, but quite the contrary: On the one hand, we want to ensure that the pensions of those people who are in retirement today are guaranteed and that pensioners can spend their evening in social prosperity and security, but on the other hand we also want to ensure that today's generation of 30- to 40-year-olds can also experience a secure evening of life when they retire. We now have to make fundamental reforms, and that is what this government programme says. You said it was a condition for you to stick to the payroll system at the pensions. Mr Gusenbauer! How should this work if there are now 100 employed 63 pensioners, while in 2030 100 persons will already be retired from the employment market? How will the charging system you are promoting work? It may sound good today that there is no need for reform, but I believe that if you think of future generations, then it is irresponsible to use the state system for pension provision alone. We say that, in addition to the basic public provision, the promotion of the second and third pillars for the future of the pension system is essential. Forcing and promoting the second pillar, occupational pension provision, and the third pillar, private pension provision, will be an important task for this Federal Government. It is also important that you come to a single pension account in the future, that everyone can decide for himself in a certain framework how high his pension is and when he retires. It is also important that, of course, in the short-term necessary measures – and this is also of particular importance to my group – we carry out them socially, that we maintain and extend the so-called "hackler regulation" for the long-term working people, and that we implement employment programmes for older workers, for example, by reducing additional labour costs. All these are the social measures that you have not found in our programme, but which, of course, have been given special priority in it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, we want to maintain high quality in the Austrian health system. I believe that it was useful not to go into the government negotiations from the outset with any quotas or deposits or restraints, but to analyse them comprehensively, and that the main association of social security bodies, which is very close to practice, has to make appropriate proposals. I cannot imagine, Mr Gusenbauer, that, for example, a system, as we have proposed, which has been felt socially fair for forty years by the Austrian Federal Railways, can suddenly be regarded as socially unfair when it is put to all Austrians. I think you should say goodbye to the polemics and, together with us, implement a future-oriented project for the Austrians. I believe that the state – as it will also be important to discuss it comprehensively in the Constitutional Convention – should free itself from unnecessary bureaucracy and focus on the core tasks. These key tasks, e.g. in the social and educational field, must be safeguarded, also budgetaryly. An important key task is to maintain the internal and external security of Austria. Unfortunately, this core task, ladies and gentlemen, is low in Austria – sometimes also in the public debate – because many Austrians believe that this security is natural. But if you drive in one of the countries – unfortunately, there is still enough – in which this security is not given, and there people ask what their greatest desire is – I was in Afghanistan, for example, where people have nothing, where they live like in the Middle Ages – and then get as an answer – they do not say: We want money, we want clothes, we want apartments!, but they just say: We want security! – that they want security, that they have missed it and that this is their highest good, then, I think, you can only say: We should take this value of security seriously and make it clear that we must do something about it at European level, because security and also the threat scenarios must be dealt with globally and at European level, but also at the Austrian level. We fully support the development of a European security and defence structure, including a guarantee of assistance, including the strengthening of the integration of awareness of Europe into the population. Of course, we also support a corresponding contribution from Austria. However, we also need to ensure that the tasks relating to security in Austria are fulfilled – for example through a modern equipment and equipment of the Austrian Federal Army. If there is more budgetary need – I believe that there is a need for this budget – then this key task must be secured, including an increased budget. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: With the Eurofighters?]] When it comes to securing the areas inside, there should also be proper airspace surveillance. Mr Cap! It is precisely now that we should ensure that military measures in Iraq are not prepared over our airspace. You should also say goodbye to your election program and find a basic consensus in security policy. With regard to the internal area, Mr Van der Bellen criticised the fact that the ‘free handwriting’ in the government programme is so pronouncing in asylum and foreign law. Yes, I think it is natural that we also implement the principles we have enshrined, that integration in foreign law must apply before new immigration, that we want orderly conditions in Austria. This does not mean that foreigners are out, but that means that we can only take up those workers in Austria – together within the framework of a quota with the family members – who are also integrable in Austria, because we want an orderly and secure living together of all the population groups in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we say in the field of asylum that, of course, everyone who is actually politically persecuted is entitled to support in Austria, we must also be clear that we must prevent the abuse of this right of asylum in the interests of the Austrians, but also of those who actually use asylum, through an acceleration of asylum procedures, by a consistent deportation of those who cannot claim the right of asylum. That, I believe, is an comprehensible human policy for the Austrians in the interests of Austria, but also for our guests and fellow human beings from abroad. When it comes to European policy, ladies and gentlemen, it was also a clear word: We liberals are committed to the project of a common Europe, especially the peace project of a common Europe and, of course, to the enlargement of the European Union. However, we demand – and this is what is found in the government programme – that all these projects also represent the interests of Austria and the interests of the Austrian population. That is why I am very glad that this Federal Government acknowledges the need to maintain the principle of unanimity in important areas, such as the conservation of our water resources, that, of course, in the transit system we place on the interests of Austria's interests, that of course, in the field of nuclear energy we place on the safety interests of the Austrians, and that, of course, we are also represented by the interests of the displaced after the Second World War, and that we are committed to solving the problem with the Beneš decrees, and that will also call for it. This is Europe's policy in the sense of Europe and in the sense of Europeans – not the bureaucracy, but the people of Europe, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think we could make a consensus in this sense. To offer the opposition to participate, I can only say: We will accept this offer, but we will also agree, because if you want to do reform work, you must also be prepared to share in it with you in the first place. This may have been a process which my group had to take note of, but we confess to it. If you are willing to go from a “no” opposition and become a constructive force in this country, then you will see that we will also take your ideas and allow them to flow in, just as we have tried in the Security and Defence Doctrine in the last legislative period, which has almost succeeded, but in the end has won the party policy over consensus. That would be the wrong way for Austria! Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian Federal Government! Austria can be proud that this successful path can continue over the last three years – with new dynamics, with a clear concept for the future. The Austrian National Council must be involved. We are willing to cooperate, we are willing to bring in our ideas. I wish you all the best for your important work in the interests of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7149	Mr Vice-Chancellor Mag. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7171	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, today at home the television broadcast of this debate lend their ears and pay attention! Dear fellow citizens! High house! After lengthy exploratory talks and serious negotiations with all the parliamentary parties, the Freedom Party has agreed to carry the Austrian People's Party's Government Programme together with the Freemans, as it is today, over the next four years. Ladies and gentlemen! It was not an easy decision. We find economically difficult conditions. The threat of Iraq's war is disturbing the Austrian public, and larger parties in this House than the FPÖ have refused to contribute to reform programmes in the interests of the entire state. Mr Dr. Gusenbauer! I'll take her speech the way she's been kept. You yourself have crediblely “brought rounds” that you would be interested in a reform package for Austria. But it must also be clearly stated that large parts of your party have not followed your will to reform and therefore are very much of what you have said here today only your ideas and not those of your family community. It will be interesting for me to see if you will see what you have announced in today's speech, if you are invited to cooperate and participate, to actually implement, that is, rapid and speedy reforms in the interests of all generations in Austria. The pension reform, as it has designed this Federal Government, is also based on the constitutional funds available to this Federal Government. If you, together with social democracy, are prepared to implement faster harmonisations of pension systems and faster reforms in the interests of the whole of the state, I not only find this interesting, but also consider it desirable for the entire state welfare. Alone, because of the discussions of the last weeks and months, I lack the belief that in practice, after the talks, it will also come to this implementation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In view of the criticism from the opposition speakers here that the discharge and the harvest come only at the end of this legislative period, I can clearly say that we liberals have come through in particular with regard to the discharges. The tax relief for the small incomes comes with 1. January 2004. The discharge for small and medium-sized enterprises in the area of profits not collected comes with 1. January 2004. The “Unselling ” 13. Sales tax date, which has been agreed by you, Mr Gusenbauer, will be reached by 1. It was abolished in January 2004. I can already remember that also with 1. In 2003 the structural package began to work and family benefits with 1. It has already been increased in January 2003. I should also like to point out that today, at least in the public, a debate over the last few days has ended, because both the Greens and the Social Democratic Opposition Party have made it clear by their first speakers that the creation of a new ministry and, with it, a higher number of the heads of this federal government have their support in relation to that of the previous Federal Government. I believe that this has been a final point in the debate over the last three days, because this Federal Government has suddenly grown larger. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have taken seriously the wish of more than 50 percent of voters in Austria, and we have taken this wish into account in the creation of our own women's ministry, which will be borne by you. [[Abg. Silhavy: Selective perception!]] But one should then also trade the truth in the public as one sees it here in the House, namely that the enlargement of the Federal Government is also in line with the desire of the red and the green opposition party here in this House and is not a foul at the expense of the Austrian taxpayers. I think you should stick to the truth when you're connected to the truth. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Professor Van der Bellen! It cannot be surprising that a federal government with free participation, which, as the first European party here in the House, has always committed itself to subsidiarity and federalism, has consistently included important parts in this government programme, namely the links in the regionalisation and cross-border cooperation of the regions, as we Austrians wish and want, and as is already successfully practiced in the region of Carinthia-Friaul-Venezia Giulia-Slovenia or in the region of Tyrol. We want this to be Europe's future project. This Europe will only be better and stronger in the population if people in this Europe feel comfortable and if people in this Europe are aware of it. It will not be a question of centralist programmes being implemented, but it is important that the new Europe also grows and becomes stronger with its citizens. For Austria, therefore, it is particularly gratifying that in the Austrian population, where regionalisation and cross-border cooperation work, as we imagine it to be, has increased, whereas in those countries that are focusing on a central and centralist Europe, consent to Europe has been reduced. Whoever is consistently behind Europe must also be consistently behind the wishes of people in Europe and be for the representation of these people in this sense. I believe that we have therefore chosen the right way, namely the right way to shape Europe with people and not to shape Europe against people. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] No one can wonder that someone like me, who had the roots of his family between Trieste and Zwittau and between Carinthia and South Tyrol, always valued the fact that the commitment to the old Austrian minorities is also included in the government program. If, in the last few days and weeks, the discussion has raised the question of what has remained of the position of the liberals in recent years, I say quite clearly: We had to decide! We had to decide whether we could co-form from the Federal Government's point of view and see the old Austrians on this side and beyond the borders as a link to our new partnerships of the Central European States, the former crown countries of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, or whether we continue to highlight the separation of history. Those who stand behind the people and who make politics for the people must equally respect the living situation, the social situation and the situation of the people on the other hand and beyond the borders, for only then will we be able to prevent migration and the movement of economic refugees. We must therefore ensure that people across borders are created in the social context of work and employment. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Therefore, it is also important for me that this government programme contains the strengthening of the social structure beyond the borders, for example by increasing the involvement of the Austrian institutions and the Austrian libraries for the old-Austrian minorities – they should feel comfortable where they feel comfortable today even tomorrow and the day after and enjoy the same human rights as the citizens in our country. This is an important concern of this federal government. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner spoke very much and very competently about security policy. The internal security and external security were always important to us liberals, and it is also important for me, as a social minister, that at a time when we have significantly more than 290,000 unemployed people, we do everything we can to bring back to work those people who are in the country – including those guest workers we have brought into the country, such as those 3 800 unemployed seasonals of the winter season – and thus to free up the space for convention refugees who, in our opinion, must always have the protection of our state and for whom we will be a hord of security. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Therefore, we have consistently valued not only in this government programme, but also in the last three years of government at European level – just like all other European states – a separation between Convention refugees and economic refugees: For Convention refugees, the place is free, and they will be able to rely, in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights, on the fact that they will have a safe place with valid human rights in Austria. It will be important for the economic situation to give employment and employment to the unemployed in Austria. We have, especially for young people up to 25 years of age, where there are special problems, but also for older people over 56 years of age, in this government programme, we have introduced measures that benefit workers and businesses alike through training, retraining, training and redundancies when they employ over 56 and over 60 years of age. However, with the re-introduction of the old-age unemployment allowance, we will also be able to face socially an important effect of old-age unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen! The pension reform for the 35-year-olds today is a programme that Austrian society will urgently need. Moreover, in the past legislative period, we have created two models with the “new settlement” and the premium pension scheme to enable young people in the long term to compensate for any loss of income in old age through a second and third pillar, is and was not new to us liberals, because 14 European states have a pension model based on a first, second and third pillar. It should never be forgotten that the framework conditions of Austrian society cannot exist from the fact that the two-person family plus pet will fulfil the generation contract, but only from the fact that families with children will fulfil the generation contract. Therefore, the childcare allowance and its further expansion during this legislative period have a special value for us liberals. The multi-child regulations, the recognition of child rearing periods from 18 to 24 months, the possibility and the right to part-time employment up to the seventh year of life or until the schooling of the child, the creation of part-time and teaching for disabled children according to new models, which also allows disabled children better access to the labour market and to their own social security, are for me social progress from a liberal point of view in this government programme. That is why, Mr Van der Bellen, I am very grateful to you for the question you have asked, which is what is free handwriting in this government programme. – That is what we have put on the value of freedom! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should like to remind you once again that it was also important for us in the field of national defence, not to end external security, since we can never exclude a crisis situation – so it sees other neutral states in the European Union – not 5 centimetres above the surface of the earth, but to take care of the future of Austria's airspace on its own behalf. It was a subject that has caused us enormous problems in the internal – that is undisputed – but I also say: Whoever bears responsibility for this republic and responsibility for Austria cannot make it easy. This responsibility also includes the fact that we are finally creating a better insurance right for the soldiers, so that, if they occur for Austria and the Austrian security interests abroad, they will have the same protection as executive officials and other citizens in Austria. I think this is an urgent step, because a few have been harmed by the use of Austria and the national and international security of Europe. They deserved to find social inclusion on the social network of a rich country. [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also consider the creation of compulsory accident insurance as an important milestone in the development of Austrian social security law. If one considers the accident statistics and the fact that the assistance of the accidents ends after their treatment and the rehabilitation and reintegration into society for those who are socially weak, then one should never forget that in the number of accidents there are also 58 000 household accidents, in most cases women, and again, most of them women who are not socially well protected. You can now polemize in the public with dragon flies and other extreme sports. The fact is, however, that in those cases which are in place in the Social Ministry, namely in my section for the disabled day after day, are house workers and women who have been accidented in the household and who, under today's system, receive medical treatment, but do not experience subsequent rehabilitation and reintegration into society. I therefore believe that the 0.1 percent solidarity levy is an important contribution to putting a social end to our accident law – in the interests of the socially weak strata, which cannot afford leisure insurance and no accident insurance, and in the interests of those people who have lived in this state to this day under the shadow of the social system. I know you can do everything in public, for example, the discussion about our health system, but I would like to say the following: I have not experienced until today, in all the years since 1986, when I was first praised here in Parliament, that the social security system of the Austrian Federal Railways would have been regarded by the Greens or by the Social Democracy sides as unsocial. It would have been illusory, too, to say that their core constituencies had just moved in a non-social social security system. I can tell the Austrians that in this system today, 14 percent of self retention and 20 percent self retention still apply to psychosomatic and psychological services. Considering that the passage to early retirement has long since been due to an accident at work, but due to the psychological stress and the non-treatment of psychological and psychosomatic problems, it can be said that in Austria it can only go upward with the health of the population if these benefits are finally paid throughout Austria and not only are awarded by four social insurance institutions. [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The ASVGlers, with their appallingly high number of access to early retirement due to psychological and psychosomatic diseases, have the same right as all other sections of the population, finally to receive a pension through the good Austrian health insurance system.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7279	Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you still have an iron reserve of 2 minutes, because the clock was obviously set at 18 minutes. – Please, continue your remarks!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7295	Thank you for the information, Mr President. – I am allowed to use the last two minutes to say something that makes me personally a veterinarian and an animal protectionist, namely that a federal animal welfare law is finally enshrined in this government agreement. Mr Gusenbauer and you, Mr Van der Bellen, will give me the right to: This has not been the case in the previous government declarations. This may be an important step in the future of this country for at least 860 000 Austrians who have officially been committed to popular desire. [[Abg. Brosz: We will see what is in it!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Let's look at the result!]] In view of the fact that in Austria everyone is discussing the fact that the treatment of popular desires and citizens' initiatives should not expire after the end of a legislative period, it is also important that this Federal Government has considered a change in the current legal practice of the Second Republic by the Austrian Convention. I am sure, according to what you, Mr Gusenbauer, and you, Mr Van der Bellen, have formulated, that this will also receive the constitutional majority of the Austrian Convention: in the interests of further development of our parliamentary democracy with more pillars of direct democracy, as we have always wanted. I believe that we have a government activity ahead of us that will continue the exciting plans of the state. We have already begun to raise the research rate from 1.5 per cent to 1.95 per cent in the technology sector, and we will realize with 2.5 per cent and 3 per cent what all speakers in this Parliament have in their speech repertoire: [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] Today's research is tomorrow's jobs! We will ensure that Austria will keep its top place in Europe and worldwide – for the benefit of all Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7356	Mrs Sburny spoke in favour of an actual correction. I ask you to pay attention to § 58 GOG and to the claim to be corrected and to the actual facts of each other.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7378	Mr Vice-Kanzler's head has claimed that the Greens would approve a enlargement of the government. – That’s wrong! On the contrary, it is true that the Greens did not want to enlarge the government, but rather put emphasis on the fact that the share of women in the government is rising and not falling.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7417	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Speech time: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7435	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor! It's gotten a little tight on the government bank. If there is another one, then either Mr Schweitzer or Mr Kukacka will slide down. [[Abg. Scheibner: There are already more sitting with you!]] There is no longer much space there, but perhaps ÖVP and FPÖ are getting closer. Perhaps this is also necessary, because if I consider that you are submitting a motion for a resolution here that you must present the entire government programme as a motion for a resolution, I believe that there is no mutual trust. This is almost as if one went through the ranks of the FPÖ and ÖVP delegates and left each individual personally to sign up to this government agreement. How controversial must this government agreement between the two government parties and within these governmental parties have been and still be that: You have to put in this motion for a resolution today as a means of disciplining it so that it really works? [[Deputies Mag. Molterer and Dr. stupid: A weak start!]] Here, discipline up there – due to the narrowness – so that you get closer, that's the motto you're hoping that, as Van der Bellen says, old Kahn will be sailing on the seas for three years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is worth taking a brief look at the German Chancellor Schüssel's declaration of government. To throw February 2000 because he said very proudly: “We have a ministry less. Each State Secretary will be given a responsibility area – that must have been new – and “for the first time, tourism will have its own State Secretary, which must not be underestimated.” Now the Secretary of State for Tourism has disappeared; he has been underestimated if I look at it that way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But there are a lot of State Secretarys. I asked myself: What are so many State Secretarys for? I thought and thought, and then the “standard ” fell upon me. March in the hand, where Gerfried Sperl writes: ‘State secretaries as caretakers to ensure that the control is appropriate’. – This is the second part in terms of trust: a State Secretary is still sitting everywhere. Gerfried Sperl goes further and says that this type of government's occupation policy is also being made because of the fact that rivals are sent to Vienna. I don't know who's a rival now, whoever's in the government. We already have the caretakers. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Maybe that's not true, what's in the standard! Could be!]] The third part is the family bond. I do not interfere in family affairs; that does not belong to me. When sisters and nephews are mobilized here, I don't want to interfere. But this is probably an additional kitt: the extension of the conservative family concept to the government, so that it is now really secured and maintained on all sides. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! I think it has been a great opportunity for Austria. There could have been a stable government that could have been a reformable and reformable government, and there could have been a government with weight in the European Union. [[Abg. Steibl: And that's what the cap says!]] – That was our project, our proposal, and we have come very close to it in some respects – just as it has happened in the Greens. In many points, however, there has really been dissatisfaction, and we have then gained the impression during the negotiations that there was not really the goal of consensus at all. When I thought about it, the “profile ” suddenly fell into my hand. Herbert Lacner wrote on 3 March. March rightly: “So you have to go out of it – and that’s how it’s seen today’s close co-controversies”; I take on Molterer and as they all call it, “that he started the talks with SPÖ and Greens on failure.” – This made you the third choice from the FPÖ, but that’s your problem you have to deal with. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He has often written something wrong, Mr. Lacner!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do not believe everything the journalists prescribe!]] If we had more time here now, we could prove minutely: The fact is that the talks were based on failure. One of the main points was the insistence on the famous Eurofighters, on the largest arms edition. 2 billion € should be thrown out of the window. But that was just one of many points. Other points: Abolition of early pensions, which might have driven up to 100 000, 120 000 older people into unemployment. Self-retaining. – Socially unfair in the form you have proposed! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's gone now, Mr. Cap!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr Bittner says something else today, I have read!]] I am excited how you discuss this with the “little man” in Klagenfurt when he says that this is not entirely in line with the ideas. But you'll have to deal with him yourself. I'm just telling you the following: There have been very many non-social moments and have also been included in the discussions and negotiations, which is why we considered: This does not secure Austria's economic location, which does not give impetus to Austrian companies! However, these were very important aspects, such as the question of tax reduction, a tax reform. It is still a chuzpe – as people say – when you say the tax reform – a referendum! – will take place in 2004, and then again comes a little bigger in 2005. So comforts, comforts, comforts, until the upswing comes and a procyclical measure can be put back in place. Now that it is necessary to put anticyclic measures in place, to intervene as a state, to really create demand, to move the economy, to set growth in motion, now is saved; on devils coming out is saved and burdened! At this point again, an interesting sentence by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany from the Declaration of Government of the 9th century, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the “The taxpayer must never be taxed again.” – He said no more! Never again! He then broke that daily for three years, but then he said it in this almost apodic form: It must never be like that again! We now have the highest tax and tax rate. Many of today's spectators will notice when they look into their wallet: Something's missing again! I can tell you where those responsible are. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Strasser.]] – He is not here right now, he is going to count money, that is, what is missing in the wallets, but otherwise, in principle, all those who are responsible for it are there. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Greens]] It's going on. Mineral oil tax: Heating gets more expensive, driving becomes more expensive. Whether you get sick, you have to think about it from 2004. Now you can get sick quickly, then it becomes difficult, because then you have to pay for a hold on your doctor or wherever you go. [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is really a little deep!]] . You should have been upset at the coalition negotiations, now it is too late, because you will be giving your assent to the motion for a resolution. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens]] The loads continue! It goes on, and if this continues, there is also 13 billion euros of need for consolidation. But it's got to come somewhere. By the way, how do you want to finance your tax reforms that you have announced? I heard: Administrative reform! That's the three-step thing there's always: Administrative reform, black-and-white work and the Christkind. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] In fact, this has never been achieved. The issue of blackwork – I have heard for years that this is being done; I hope it finally succeeds. It would be totally important, but you didn't do anything. – It will all come to us. What was it like today after the Federal Chancellor's speech? ==References====External links== ==References====External links== In part, there are some Members who do not want this government coalition, both in the EIA and in the FPÖ. Some want to stay in opposition at all or not come into the house at all. There are different viewpoints and positions on this. Let's remember everyone who did that at the time. ==References====External links== Cheerful, standing ovations, flowers, handshake, embraces, almost a bussi has given it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What a mood at that time! And today? – Behaviour, seriousness, compulsory reading, compulsory applause. Everything's missing, there's the steam out there. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Should the head and the bowl brush off?]] It is also noted: There is a lack of willingness to reform. A headline collection is the Government Declaration. It seems to me like a bus station. It's just above: Here's a car bus!, but it's not about when he's coming, where he's going, whether he's big enough, if he's got four wheels. This may not be so unimportant in this government. Does the bus even have four wheels? For example, it should be asked. – Nothing, a collection of headlines, “new talk” as you say so beautifully. Mr. State Secretary Morak! A new piece is announced in the Burgtheater. It no longer means “waiting for God’s god, ” it is“ waiting for the harvest. ” Herbert Haupt, Wolfgang Schüssel, Karl-Heinz Grasser can participate. I hear again and again: And then comes the day of harvest. - Not tomorrow, not tomorrow, but he's coming. We hear him come, the day of harvest. He's getting closer and closer. Start at least once in the Burgtheater by being able to study it that you can see it! As far as I can remember, has Godot never come, or am I deceived? – That would be at least an announcement. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What do we mean by courage? Today's declaration of government is also a manifesto of courage. It's sad, but it's true. A manifesto of courage and a manifesto of escape from responsibility. Self retention – this should be done by social security; shop closure – that's what the national leaders are supposed to do; Pensions – that's what everyone should take care of. Of course, there is a risk on the stock exchange, unpleasant, but that Life is a risk now, so secure your pensions. Second, third pillar, the stock prices will go up, will go down – bad luck, but we will already see that. Somehow that's how it works. Or: Industrial policy. You could sell anything at all, then you didn't have to make an industrial policy anymore. That would be the simplest thing. That's how it goes. It's all being pushed away, it's not taking on any responsibility! This government has already undertaken to be responsible. Already today! She said we're going to take no responsibility. No responsibility! Some remarks today I felt a bit like the pipe in the forest. Mr Molterer's speech was partly a political self-hypnosis. Don't be angry with me, but you've always said: [[Rejoicing and applause at SPÖ]] We are courageous, we are forward-looking. – If in a program of a government the word “future” is constantly stated, then this government has no future. It also does not believe in its own future of government, otherwise it would not have such a bad conscience and would not constantly write in that word. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer! I assume, of course, that you are writing and reading everything your partyobmann says exactly. This is the condition of a close associate. You said today that we are in difficult times. – Schwups, I thought I was going to look back at what German Chancellor Schüssel said on 9 September. February 2000 in his first statement of government. It was different back then. There it says: “There have never been such good conditions for our country. We are economically strong and wealthy. Democracy is on a solid foundation, and we can offer citizens a high level of social security." “Our unemployment rate is falling and is one of the lowest in all of Europe.” – I am glad that you once again thought of the red and black coalition with applause, because that was the summation of the time when this government acted. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Please take your “feh” handkerchiefs out of your pocket now and start crying a little, because the next three years have led to the statement of Klubobmann Molterer: Hard times! It's just that he didn't mean: Very difficult times, Shartal, we have to intervene there and there, we have this and that need for action. But he did not say this because the government does not intend to do so – as you have told us about your so-called government programme here. Coming to the end: Why not quote Jörg Haider from time to time? He said to read in the “Press”: “ÖVP is engulfing in the noise of power. ” - I know what was. There has therefore been no coalition with the Social Democrats, because they have now been able to appoint new Ministry of the Public Health and Consumer Protection. And that was more important to get new posts, more important than cooperation in the interests of Austria! In this case, the EIA, the party and the personal interest was more important. Do you know what I'm interested in? – I’ve just seen the page in the press, which says: ‘Haider: “ÖVP is soaring in the noise of power,” and on this one it is said further below: ‘Pröll betts about ‘Stillstand’ in the waistband’. – I was last criticized by the Federal Chancellor because I said there was a standstill in the federal government. I didn't even know that Pröll would take over this from me – but he took over it, why not? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] So it complains about “packeting and tactilizing! ” – It was packing when you formed the government? What's going on? However, I also have to say, so that you don't think I would have positively quoted country captain Pröll [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel]] He seems to be a little paperier to me, because he has not prevented black and blue – so he seems to have no special weight and can therefore actually save these words – it is almost in your interest when I say that – in the future. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] He criticizes – but nothing happens, so there are only two ways: Either it was a double play of him, and he's silent and he's not coming anymore because his nephew's sitting here, or he can't stand himself and counts nothing in the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7709	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7737	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The list of speakers wants me to speak right after Josef Cap. The last time I regret that his speech was not broadcast on television, today I am grateful to the ORF for the live broadcast. [[Abg. Nürnberger: That's 2 percent for us again!]] Mr Cap! The voters can take a picture of what the clubman of the SPÖ understands as politics: Caricature, Klamauk and Cabaret – the opposite of government policy, Mr Cap! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I would like this to be used by my previous speaker and to address the Federal Chancellor's statement of government. Ladies and gentlemen! This declaration of government, with this courageous, courageous, responsible perspective until 2006, falls into a time when one has to say: It is so difficult for the economy, but also for politics as rarely since the reconstruction phase after the Second World War. [[Interlocutors Silhavy and Gradwelt.]] We have the great global megatrends, the redesign of Europe, the fact that the investment capital that is invested in jobs is as mobile as never before in human history, and thirdly, a technical progress whose pace is stunning. All this poses incredible challenges to politics, and how quickly a policy can fail here can be seen by the example of red-green in Germany. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: More like black and blue!]] The former economic engine in Europe, economic power number one, was led down by a missing red-green policy. 4 million unemployed, exploding budget deficits, a high tax burden – this is red-green policy, ladies and gentlemen! I don't know, I wasn't involved in the negotiations, the negotiations certainly brought a lot of positive things – mutual understanding, appreciation for the position of the other; I didn't do a deep-psychological study either – but I could imagine that both in red and green, the dissuasive example of red-green in Germany – perhaps only in subconsciousness – was the reason to say: It's failed, we're staying in opposition! – It may be, but I am not a deep psychologist, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say the following: Of course, these major challenges as well as the redeployment of Europe are a huge opportunity, as Mr Bundeskanzler said, but of course also a challenge for politics. As a representative of a border region, I say: Of course, my voters in the Waldviertel also see this as an opportunity – thank God! – and not as a threat, but they also expect the infrastructure in this region to be expanded accordingly. It makes a difference, because it makes a difference whether a region stroves with its back on the iron curtain for half a century or suddenly lies in the heart of Europe. – This is a huge opportunity, but it is also a challenge for policies to develop infrastructure accordingly. The incredible pace of technical progress – an incredible challenge for politics. Let us see how quickly the working world is changing through technical progress! If today a woman goes on a karenz leave after the birth of her child and returns after two years, the working world looks quite different by technical progress. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I am therefore very pleased, Mrs Colleague, that this government, under the Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, Martin Bartenstein, deliberately places a focus on new qualifications. This is an urgent national concern so that those concerned can cope with technical progress in the working world alone. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, thank you for your strong commitment to this offensive in qualification! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The high mobility of investment capital, which goes into jobs, requires an enormously attractive location policy – economic policy is today's location policy. And the course of this government is right, he is right, ladies and gentlemen! The economic location has been given high priority. I underlined two sentences in the chancellor's speech that they should also be notes for the opposition, namely: “Economics creates work” and “social is what creates work”. – Both sentences are golden, ladies and gentlemen! That is why this policy of Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor with their government team is right to say: We need to strengthen Austria's economic location. – We have good conditions, we have significantly improved our ranking over the last three years, but one priority must be: Location policy in terms of jobs, income opportunities and social security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: He was even better!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger! I can understand that, in view of these enormous challenges, the balance between government policy and opposition policy has greatly increased the tendency of some to stay in opposition. There you can speak well, you can demand, there you can criticize, there you can protest. Taking responsibility for government is quite different. [[Abg. Oillinger: Why?]] It is no coincidence that the Federal Chancellor said today: We need responsibility for the future. – We see politics as a design of the future, you understand politics – at least – as a day hack, Mr. Oillinger, and that is not our understanding of politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: We would have liked to abandon your understanding!]] I said that the course of this government is going in the right direction. It is a course for stability in the state budget, it is a course for economic growth and the economic location, it is a course for security, for internal, external and social security. Stability in the government budget. – Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, Vice Chancellor Herbert Haupt and the independent Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser stand for seriality, solidity and trustworthiness of financial and tax policy. And I also wish for this as a citizen: solid state finances, seriality, trustworthiness. This is in good hands in this government team, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Second priority: Economic growth and location attractiveness. – Ladies and gentlemen! In comparison to Germany, we have developed extremely economically in the last three years under the previous Federal Government, especially in view of the fact that we are experiencing an economic recovery worldwide. [[Abg. Oils: Where?]] The economic programmes that have been decided here were a real counter-tax on this economic deficit. If we have reached two milestones in the last two years – for example in the export industry – then this is, of course, a great merit for export companies and their skilled employees, but also for the framework conditions created by the predecessor of this government. First milestone: 2001 – at the time it was expected in Schilling – there was for the first time a breach of the sound wall of 1,000 billion schilling in export volume. Do you know what 1,000 billion Schilling exports mean? That means a million jobs. In Austria, every second job depends directly or indirectly on export and tourism. Second milestone: We achieved a surplus in the trade balance for the first time in the previous year – inconceivable a few years ago.” There were more exports than imports. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have been able, above all, to benefit from the opportunities of the markets in Central and Eastern Europe, because this government has always sent out very positive signals. Europe is an opportunity!, was only emphasized today in the speech of the Federal Chancellor. Since 1990, the share of exports to Central and Eastern Europe has increased from 10 percent to 17 percent of the volume. And the potential is probably well over 20 percent. This requires trust in the framework conditions and trust in the Federal Government as well. Ladies and gentlemen! The companies have confidence in this Federal Government! This has been seen very clearly on the basis of these two really enormous successes, which the export economy has had in particular in recent years. I say it again: If the export volume had not increased by 4 percent in the previous year, we would not have achieved any economic growth at all. I'll finish. I would like to say that this government – and I like it as an economic politician – has economic policy in the perspective by 2006; I would almost say a strategic triangle in this government programme. First: Stability of public finances as a priority objective. Mr Gusenbauer! – He's not here anymore, he's not looking out for it anymore. – The zero deficit has not been abandoned. Zero deficit, we have always defined it – I myself repeatedly here from the speaker’s desk – means: a balanced government budget over the economic cycle. This is still true, and that means high solidarity, seriality, trustworthiness. Secondly, discharge of citizens and businesses. You heard: The largest tax reform, the largest tax relief in the history of the Second Republic, has taken place this government. Ladies and gentlemen! For this reason alone I am a supporter of this government, for I have been of the opinion for many years that more money should be in the hands of the citizen and less money in the hands of the state. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] This government is in favour of implementing this principle, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Not implemented for three years! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Third focus of this triangle: Investment in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! This government programme contains very specific and precise statements: Increase the research rate to 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product. It contains the commitment of another export offensive together with the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. Grade: Zero implemented!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is politics as a future design – instead of demagogical calls, Mr. Cot! It is too little to always criticize, demand and protest, but it is important to bear responsibility for the country's future. This will also create the conditions for the implementation of this principle of the Federal Chancellor, which is social, which creates work. Today, social is not the one who tells people that everything can remain the same as it is, but social acts are the one that shows how pensions can be secured in the long term, even if this may not be popular at first moment or at all. The time of the pensioner's letters, as a former Chancellor wrote, is thank God. We tell people the truth, and people understand this truth! People are much smarter than some politicians believe. And I'm consciously looking in your direction now, my Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. The average citizen is much more reasonable than some believe. In summary, I am convinced that the citizens of our country are in good hands with this government, with this government programme and with this government team. I am glad that this government has the full support of the majority of this Parliament. It has been the electorate's clear mission that Wolfgang Schüssel should remain Federal Chancellor and that the reform course should continue over the last three years. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The voters too?]] It has also shown who is the partner who has the courage to do these reforms: It's the Freedom Party. I look forward to working together, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, on the next few years, and I am glad to be able to do so if we can shape the future of this country under this Federal Government in the way the Federal Chancellor has explained in his statement of Government today.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7959	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7977	Mr President. Estimated members of the enlarged Austrian Federal Government! High house! Dear spectators on the gallery and at home on the televisions! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Will this be an important issue now?]] I would like to deal with the previous contributions to the debate, particularly in three aspects: What about environmental protection in this government agreement? What about social justice, especially the situation of women? And: What has been said about security today and here? I would like to go into this shortly and try to emphasize what is going on between the lines. Those who have been in politics for a long time may have been able to hear a little more precisely what has actually been going on behind the anointing words. On the one hand, it was explained that clear signals had been given to the population during this election. – If there was any clear signal in this election, it was that FPÖ was elected as a government party. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But the Federal Chancellor and the members of the government seem to have a different interpretation of what the voters have signaled. The reduction of a party by two thirds has never occurred in Austria's domestic history. That had a reason, but you're going beyond it – let's say it in the clear text. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But it has not won a party for 40 years, Mrs Colleague!]] Now on the point of environmental policy. Federal Chancellor! You said quite at the beginning of your remarks – a quote from our neighbouring country, but in your opinion also applicable to Austria –: ‘In a country in which each centimetre of the status quo is occupied with defensive interests...’. No, Mr. Federal Chancellor! It's not like that. There you can say, unfortunately, whether God is grateful, but it is not. There are interests, especially the interests of the environment, or, if you wish, the interests of future generations who do not have the same protection as the established interests of economic markets. What did you say? – Here’s my translation into what it really means: They did not want island solutions in terms of water, air, food quality, but European solutions. In the clear text:... – You say it is necessary. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: I said it was necessary to find European solutions!]] I say it was different, too, and the Greens say it was a lot different, and it would be better if we did it differently. Federal Chancellor! No island solutions and European directives are waiting, that is... – No, no, nobody wants to get out of the EU, or we don't want it anyway. [[Abg. May. Molterer: How do we want to get out of nuclear energy?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not from the EU, from nuclear energy!]] But it is a question of whether Austria has a pioneering role or not, whether we, for example, can remain a GMO-free zone – and that is, Austria as a whole – or not. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is very nebulos about transit solutions, something concrete is not in there. For example, it says: Regional loads by transit can be stopped. - Well, how? What? How is that supposed to happen? Through your government agreement, and by referring to the general transport plan? - Please, there's the opposite! There the North motorway is included, and there is the new non-mauthentic transit road across the forest district and the wine district over the Wagram. That's in the general traffic plan. Not included are the new old railway lines, which still exist from the monarchy, but which end somewhere, a few kilometers from the border. These lines could have been extended for a long time and could thus really have brought traffic to the rails. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can bring that in the Lower Austrian Landtag!]] This would, of course, make it possible to carry out a clear environmental relief. That's possible. You do nationally, you do not need to wait for Europe. But here is something different, and that is to be clearly stated. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Or, Mr. Federal Chancellor, animal welfare. You talked about a coalition against animal suffering today. They know that the greens in this area have always been leaders. And of course, if this is going to be a good coalition, we'll be with it. Only, I have my doubts, because I have already asked myself why you are making a survey on a subject in April, on which already, I do not know how many subcommittee meetings have taken place in Parliament, on which there are already formulated applications from the Austrian animal welfare movement, which have been introduced here in the house. What are we waiting for? Do we perhaps wait until the country elections in Lower Austria and Upper Austria are over, so that you do not have to disclose that a levelling is planned on low standards? – If that is the case, please speak out openly, Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the second area, to the social issue, where, as you know, many things have been involved in the talks, in the negotiations with the Greens, and I say that I am right. The government has grown bigger. This is surprising in times of saving, because, and you should add that too, there is no zero rate. The cost of increasing this government is estimated to be € 2.6 million: for the new government posts and the corresponding administrative framework. That's, in Schilling, about 35 million schilling. – I can only say, all respect!, for a government that takes the word “save” a hundred times a day. It seems to be that way, and this can be said openly: The liberals have been decimated in this election, as it is no longer annoyed. That's probably what it's called, we're going to create a few additional offices so that a few can go back. - That's the real reason. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] At the same time, the old caretaker function of the State Secretary comes again, because such a “toll climate of trust” exists. In addition, you have made a reduction in the women's rate compared to the cabinet bowl I. The old cabinet has begun with a female share of over 30 percent. At that time, five of the sixteen members of the government were women. Now it's 22 percent. So, enlarged government, increased male share, and a dramatically reduced share of women in the government. And please don't say that was the idea of the Greens or the Opposition! That's what it was. Your own interest in posts! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The use of language in this declaration of government was also remarkable. We've been very careful: Whenever there was talk of any economic initiatives, the Federal Chancellor used the male form, although the government agreement in turn mentions gender mainstreaming and linguistic equal treatment. This seems to be a pure bottle, Mr. Federal Chancellor. That's what you're writing in, but no one's using it. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] No, it says inside: the founders, the entrepreneurs, and only where part-time work is concerned about family work is used at once the female form. That is, you already cement traditional role images with your language, whereas we speak out quite massively. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Now on the issue of women and social justice. We know that women's incomes, women's wages and salaries in Austria are much lower in relation to men's incomes than elsewhere in Europe. Austria has the last place in Europe, the 15. Under 15 states! And the trend is rising, the gap between women's and men's incomes continues to rise! In the pension, the situation is even worse. There, on average, the female pension is not even half of the male pension, although there is no trend in the other direction. And now you are submitting a pension reform based on an opinion which clearly assumes the entirely traditional guarantee mechanisms – continuous male employment on the one hand and marriage on the other, although you know and although all experts say that this will have a major impact on women's loads! They are talking about sparingness here and do not see that you violate justice – including constitutional principles – with this kind of unilateral pension reforms. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask the question at all – especially the ÖVP members and the ÖVP members –: What does justice mean? – You automatically accept the Intergovernmental Agreement and the Pension Assessments: Justice means contribution justice. What is paid in is paid out again as on a capital savings book. Justice means to you that the principle of insurance is strengthened. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's just not true!]] – Yes, it is, Mr Deputies! I think justice should mean: No one has to suffer in old age! No one has to freeze in old age! No one has to suffer from the necessary needs! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Then why is “Minimum board” standing inside? Why does it say inside, “Invoking child rearing times in women ”?]] - That's what I'm talking about. Mr Molterer! You know exactly that a few months more accounting of child rearing times does not really change something about this general injustice. For women are generally discriminated against, women with children and without children have less wages and income. Federal Chancellor! It's the wrong principle! – It is the wrong principle! [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: A real principle!]] We Greens have tried to convince you that a modern social system of tomorrow needs to achieve a very important principle, namely an existential base. And you've only realized this in a small area, where it's about, people who don't have anything else... [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Where people are socially in need!]] But You do not have an independent pension scheme, I stress, in particular for women, and that is one of the leading points. We reject that in this form. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Then you didn't read it!]] Of course, we have voted in favour of a minimum statutory wage. Because the trend that the gap between the strongly man-dominated industries and the much weaker women-dominated sectors is getting deeper is, of course, continuing to the age, and this is especially true for older women, especially for pensioners, who are really at risk of poverty. One last: A few words on safety, only very italic. It was significant to me that the Vice-Chairman in this area has quite clearly defended the solutions that are being sought and that you obviously need this request to concur with all your Members also on the purchase of the interception hunters. Federal Chancellor! You have once said in your statement that something has a price, saying that it will be more expensive, namely in terms of security. They have not said that it has a price in the areas of health, that it has a price in the fields of education. There it is said again and again, we need to become more efficient and economical. In the clear text that means that you want to save a billion € at the pensions, you want to save a billion € in health care, that is 2 billion €. And by €2 billion you buy interceptors. This is a business that... [[Abg. Scheibner: My God, the comparison again! But you took this comparison effortlessly, a rhetorical downfall! Weak!]] That's it! – This is something that does not serve the interests of youth and not the interests of the country! I wonder why our children are more protected: by ecological agriculture and social security – or by a few Sinteur combat aircraft? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Even the applause is thin!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll finish. Actually, I was surprised by the following: In the course of the entire phase of government formation – which was quite exciting overall, but in the end has shown very clearly that you want an alliance with the liberals – from the ÖVP: Everyone will vote for it! May there be scepticism from the countries, or may there be scepticism from the Chamber of Commerce, and the representatives here in Parliament will be loose and will not be voting with the eyelashes. In fact, I have already been surprised that there is this social-political popularity here. Mr Van der Bellen has already mentioned it. For They were a few things really fixed, namely the need for savings in pensions and health care as well as the purchase of the interception hunters. These contours were fixed. – Anything else, whether you go towards integration and human rights or not, whether you strengthen women’s rights or not, that was apparently open and arbitrary. They seem to have exchanged the European declaration of human rights with the calculator from the Minister of Finance's laptop.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8298	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Bleckmann. The speaking time is 15 minutes. – At 1 p.m., a short lunch break will be interrupted as agreed. The clock will start blinking a minute before 1 p.m. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8317	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Cap, I think government is a responsible task and not a cabaret. If you see your job in doing a new cabaret and a new piece here, then it is good that you sit where you are now sitting, namely on the opposition bank, because you are apparently not willing to assume responsibility. [[Complaints with the liberals]] And the colleague from the Green Party, I'm going the following way: They criticise the fact that, as Mr Vice-Chancellor said, there was no women's ministry in the last government. Now there's the Women's Ministry, but you're still complaining. You can never make it right. It is important to us that the government is operational, and that is it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Sburny: We'll see!]] . That is why we need the motion for a resolution so that we can all see how you behave on the individual points, including those which you are supposed to have negotiated and which you agree with. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] One thing you forget, and you don't want to see it, and you don't want to hear it: that the government's reform course has been confirmed by the voters and that the black and blue government also has a majority here in Parliament. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] They have already been very excited at the first government formed by black and blue. Especially the SPÖ – because you are calling in there now – could not believe to be in the government at the time, just as you can't believe today, not to be in the government. They themselves refused – even guilt. They did everything at the time, after the first black and blue government was formed, so that the government would be in a bad position abroad. [[Subsequent calls to the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] The same attitude was taken by colleagues from the Green Party by supporting and exerting professional demonstrators for their own purposes. Only: Then when they turned a little bit, they saw that they were not getting rid of the spirits they called. In fact, when it came to the government participation of the Greens themselves, their own professional demonstrators continued to demonstrate and occupy the culprits of their own Green Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] Because today your party leader Van der Bellen raised the question of how the steam and the like were going on: I think you've got the steam out there. They're going after the steamer, who's now on the way back in a rowing boat, where the captain is standing at the front and yelling: Come on, come on, come on, After the big steamer! – But the rest of the rowing team is rowing in the other direction and back to the country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] - That's the situation you've got. [[Abg. Sburny: You're confusing us!]] [[Further calls to the Greens and the SPÖ.]] - No, no! I see you very little rowing boat, unfortunately. That's the problem you have. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Kogler and Mag. Worm.]] And we're gonna sit in the steamer now. But the SPÖ was also invited to bring in their ideas. And you yourself know that the measures that are now all necessary are due to the fact that you haven't taken any measures for decades, were involuntary to reform, and that you were the ones who have heavily burdened the next generation and built up a debt mountain. I have to remind you again and again and again, and we become liberals You keep reminding me! [[Lively contradiction at SPÖ.]] I have a Taferl here for the debt mountain you have built, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[The speaker has a record to read: “SPÖ debt policy: €160 000 000 – 50 times around the earth with €10.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] 160 billion €. Because we now have the euro, the zeros are still going on, otherwise it would not go out anymore. That is, fifty times we could lay around the earth a series of 10 €-shears, set together in a row. That's the debt you built. You are therefore the last ones who may complain here when measures are put in place that will eliminate this debt mountain that you have built! They're the last ones who can complain! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] We liberals are committed to long-term, socially acceptable reforms. Therefore, planning will be carried out by 2033, so that it is long-term and socially compatible. But it seems that Mr Gusenbauer cannot go fast enough. If you ask who the reforms are for, I will answer you: These reforms are for all those you have forgotten! These are all the reforms you have not made, and they take place in all those areas in which you were inactive during your decades of government. This is the reality that you have to face and which we unfortunately also have to face, because that is what you have missed. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] They spoke on the part of the SPÖ and demanded: Research and development will take action. You probably read that, or what you don't want to read and don't want to hear doesn't exist for you. For research and development, the government programme is set up – you shake your head; please read it! –: Increase the research rate to 2.5 percent. First point. Second point: Provision of the second tranche of the special funds amounting to € 600 million. And the goal – third point, that's on the last side – is to raise the research and development rate to 3 percent. This is to be financed by means of funds from the National Bank, from a National Foundation for Research and Development. That's exactly what you asked, isn't it? [[Abg. Silhavy: Fighter, Mrs. Bleckmann!]] It's never enough for you! But you from the SPÖ have built up the debt! It can never be enough, but you have to see what options you have and how much you can spend. Anyone who has to budget with his salary knows that he cannot spend the amount of money. [[Abg. Silhavy: Fighter!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] It will be important that you learn that too. And as long as you haven't learned, you won't sit in any government anymore. - That's how it looks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The SPÖ continues to operate... – Apparently you have memory gaps! [[Abg. Silhavy: Fighter, Mrs. Bleckmann!]] Child-moving you operate, and you push away Your past with self-preservation, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[The speaker shall keep a list up to date.]] Here are all the self-holds, 16 in the number that the SPÖ government... – Yes, Mr Gusenbauer, I will give them to you personally so that you can read it. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is bad to read!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Read it before!]] That's it: Memory Gaps, “Removing Past. ” 16 You have introduced yourself, I read it to you: Heal: Sustained at least € 21.37. – Substances: Sustained at least € 21.37. - Dentist prosthetics: 50 percent of the cost to pay. - Orthodontics: Payment to the contractually defined tariffs amounting to 40 percent. [[Abg. Oillinger: And you want to introduce more! Still more self-hold!]] [[Further ongoing calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Transport costs... – I will then give them to you personally, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] This is the list of restraints you have introduced, with your party, in your government. They are the last to complain and exasperate about self - restraint. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 16 self-containment you have introduced and thus introduced the two-class system in the health system in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: And now there is more!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Our declared goal on the part of the Freedom Party is to avoid this being carried on. We want to remove this self-sustaining jungle that you have introduced, rehearsing it. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Developments!]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Double!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We want to search through the 16 self-holds you have introduced: starting from the health certificate fee that has a span of 5 percent to incredible 80 percent, along with all the other self-holds you have introduced in the last 50 years. We want a review of existing restraints to be made of their sensuality. It is for us to partially abolish existing restraints in order to achieve social balance. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I'm curious who will keep you! That's what we're looking at!]] You can only support that! We don't want an ambulance fee anymore, no more health certificate fee and no more costs on your doctor's visit! [[Abg. May. Worm: Who introduced it?]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Who introduced the ambulance fee?]] [[Call the SPÖ: Memorial gaps!]] This is how we imagine social tolerance. Do not forget that the red-green majority has been rejected by the voters! [[Abg. May. Worm: You have 60 percent fewer voters!]] But you don't want to do that to this day. It hurts you to sit on the opposition bank again and listen to a government program here, because you know: [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: “Listen”? “Listen” do you call it...?]] They have failed for decades, and we have achieved that our liberal manuscript is included in the government programme! – You will then hear more about this after the session break.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8721	I am now interrupting the meeting of the National Council for a short lunch break. We will continue at 1:15 p.m. I call Mrs Bleckmann. Your remaining speaking time is 6 minutes. After her, Mrs. Gehrer spoke. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8754	I'll start the interrupted session again. The remaining speaking time of Mrs Dr. Bleckmann is 6 minutes. – Mrs Dr Bleckmann, you are speaking. I ask the honourable Members to take their seats. The same request I address to the Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank. – Mr Finanzminister, please take a seat! [[Lively cheerfulness of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: A strict regiment!]] Ladies and gentlemen, let no one bother you in your speech! Please start!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8798	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am continuing my remarks here. Ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, who are all still in the break, would have – ah: one, two, three, four! – yes, also your own! – almost done, but in view of the resistance in its own ranks, it left the courage when it came to carrying real, real responsibility for our country. [[Contradict with Green MEPs]] [[Call the Greens:... yours!]] [[Abg. Gaál: “In your own ranks ”!]] Taking responsibility means taking measures that enable us to comply with and maintain the Generational Treaty, which will also allow our youth to say that their pensions are safe and secure the pension system for the next generation. [[Abg. Oils: How?]] Taking responsibility means putting the measures in place in such a way that they are socially compatible and long-term. Taking responsibility also means working for Austria and bringing forward, carry on and implement the necessary reforms for our country – even if compromises are needed. [[Abg. Oillinger: This is the text from the head!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Now you have the text from the head!]] To bear responsibility for this, especially you, Mr Oellinger, were not ready to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not “love”!]] – He is not a “ dear colleague”. Thank you, my colleague, Partik-Pablé! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Very “contentful”!]] No, Mr President, you were not prepared to take responsibility for government. We liberals are ready to do so, and we are also willing to make compromises and continue reforms for Austria. We have been able to bring many free points into this programme. This is exactly what the MEPs called for from the SPÖ: now to set up activities, now to “start the harvest” as it was so beautifully expressed, and now to act anticyclically. – This is exactly what this government will do at the earliest possible time, namely with 1. January 2004, with the first tax reform, with the relief of small and medium incomes, by increasing the tax-free limit to an annual gross income of €14 500. [[Abg. Oils:... not anticyclic!]] We liberals have promised this before the elections, and we keep this promise, if we have the opportunity to implement it, and we have the implementation with effect from 1 January. ==References====External links== [[Abg. May. Kogler: You promised something else!]] But not only for small and medium-sized incomes, we have imposed a discharge, but also for small and medium-sized enterprises, we have insisted that the promotion of equity creation for enterprises will be achieved by favouring the taxing of untapped profits, as well as the abolition of the 13. VAT prepayment, but also in the area of pay-off costs for older workers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These measures total net relief of €500 million. In view of this too, as I think, the SPÖ as a party does not claim that there are so many additional burdens by this new government. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, look at what your mayor Häupl did in Vienna! Since 2001, the year since there was a SPÖ minority government, he has introduced a fee after another: The introduction of a new Vienna electricity tax, an increase of 25.9 percent in the amount of waste - you are at SPÖ, Mr. Colleague, are you? – increasing the tariffs for the Vienna lines, increasing the bath rates. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál]] [[Abg. Gaál: A SPÖ alone direction!]] [[Abg. Dr. One: A majority government!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – I don’t know if you are from Vienna, but ask Mayor Häupl once about all these tariffs! Ask him what he did there, or drive around in Vienna a little bit, then see it! – Furthermore: Increase the urban kindergarten fees to up to 2 700 p. – That's what your... [[Abg. Gaál:... although not from Vienna, but from favorites, but we do not have a minority government!]] Sorry: A majority government! That's from the old clothes collection. Even worse [[Call the SPÖ: For you, bad enough!]] With the majority government, you burden the citizens in Vienna. [[Abg. Gaál: Severe information deficits!]] That is what you are doing, and that must be told to the citizens! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Prince.]] We from the Freedom Party will continue to ensure that there are socially acceptable reforms, and there is therefore also a suspension of measures, such as the “hackler rule”, the introduction of a minimum pension, but also the fact that a minimum wage of € 1,000 in full-time work has been anchored in the government programme. We will continue to take steps towards independent retirement insurance – not only but especially for women. Read on – you too, Mr Van der Bellen, – what are already taking steps here: Increase in pension-based periods from 18 to 24 months, allow for a voluntary pension split, minimum pension for those who are not currently provided. – What do these three measures that we have put in place here mean, otherwise, if not an independent pension scheme! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Do you know what will be left of the pension split?]] We'll take a closer look at that. But that's exactly what you're doing! – You don’t know the exact figures, the facts and the facts yet, but you’re already horribly upset about what everything will be. If the details are calculated and we have precise examples, then we can talk about where there should be additional suspension measures, such as a hardening fund and other things. I am sure, however, that in the liberal government team we have a member who will act as a guarantee on these issues, which will certainly work for all these concerns, especially for women and for families, but also for consumer protection, and that it will ensure that families, but also women under this government, will be fine and that they will not get under the wheels. [[Abg. May. Worm:... taken away from Mr. Böhmdorfer!]] Therefore, allow me to conclude this personal gesture as well. I've known Uschi Haubner for a very long time. She is also chairman of the ‘Free Women Initiative’. – Dear Uschi! I wish you all the best in the government! I hope that you will do what you have done in Upper Austria in the future also in and for Austria for women, for families and for consumer protection, and I wish you good luck! – And now what Colleague Cap so much likes, namely the flowers.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9089	Mrs Gehrer has now come to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9110	Mr President. High house! ==References== It was also clearly decided in November that education policy should continue in the previous direction: education policy, research policy and science policy, which form the basis for the development of society, the basis for the development of the economy, and thus the basis for securing and creating jobs. The Austrian Federal Government has therefore included in its government programme a new research offensive, for which funds amounting to € 700 million by 2006 and an educational offensive to be financed in the context of which particularly innovative educational projects are to be financed. [[Abg. Brosz: Where's that? But that's not the government programme!]] For this educational offensive, € 72 million – or, to express it in Schilling, an educational billion – will be spent, also until 2006. [[Abg. Brosz: Why is this not in the government program?]] This ensures the future for our country in the field of education to a great extent. What are the main objectives? – The first and most important thing for me is quality assurance, quality improvement in all areas of education. We want, as the Federal Chancellor has already said, to be among the top 3 in all international values in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For schools, this means defining performance standards, introducing performance standards at national level in accordance with the model of the PISA study, to promote talent in particular. Certifications shall be carried out in the field of continuing training in order to ensure the quality of training offers. The universities need to introduce an Austrian quality assurance agency. In the field of research, it is important to seek a common platform through which we have a one-stop shop and a research database, by which a report on the growth of knowledge is produced annually. It is important for the museums and for the monument protection to secure the financial resources. And for the teachers and all the teachers, it is important to realize the pedagogical universities and to create a new salary scheme. In addition to this quality assurance, it is especially important for me to relieve the pupils. A 13-year-old student in Austria is sitting at 340 hours more in school than a school student of the same age in Finland. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not want to get that far, but we want to relieve young people. A discharge of two hours per week is appropriate, moderate and reasonable and will contribute to quality assurance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: What does Neugebauer say about it?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: “Yes!”, Mr. Posch, “Yes!”!]] The quality of the school, the quality of teaching does not depend on the high number of hours, but on the teaching methodology, on didactics, on modern, captivating and exciting teaching. The hourboard is too extensive, the curriculum is too thick. We'll change that. We will also be more careful in the curriculum that we come to core areas, which will also form the fixed component of the performance standards. Ladies and gentlemen! The third thing that matters to us is: This is the “Year of the Disabled. ” Mr Gusenbauer said that Austria cannot give up on anyone, and I say: Yes, Austria cannot really give up on anyone! That is why we are setting up special initiatives in the field of the disabled. We want to start a large project that is under the motto “involved in life. ” After integration into the school, we want young people with disabilities to be involved in life, in the profession, in self-employment, in their own insurance, in their own age insurance. To this end, there will be different models for training in the school sector and outside the school area. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: In special schools, isn't it? In the special school!]] To this end, an apprenticeship model will be developed – the social partners have already agreed – which will give young people the opportunity to take part in their working life. Ladies and gentlemen! With the quality offensive, with the discharge offensive, we develop our good schools – I thank all those who strive in this context – into even better and modern schools for the 21st century. ==References== I invite everyone who bears responsibility, us in this development to the most modern schools, to the most modern educational courses of the 21st century. ==References====External links==
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9217	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Please begin with the replay of the allegation you wish to correct, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9238	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! High house! The Federal Minister has just stated in her speech that in this legislative period, the Federal Government will provide €700 million for the purposes of research, technology and innovation. That does not correspond to the facts, Mrs Federal Minister! Even in your own government program, it says that you will make 600 million € available. The fact is that even the claim you formulated in the previous legislative period, namely to reach a research rate of 2.5 percent by 2003, has now been postponed to 2006. – So “important” is your research.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9271	Mr. Dr. Böhmdorfer, Minister for Justice, has been reported from the government bank. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9293	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am also looking forward to the TV transmission, to the spectators at home. [[Call the SPÖ: They're about to turn off!]] We can continue in the field of justice where we have stopped. We have a very successful cooperation behind us. I would like to express my express thanks to the chairman of the Committee on Justice, Mrs. Dr. Fekter, for the same cooperation and, in the absence of it, to the former spokesperson of the Freedom Party, Dr. Ofner. I would also like to thank all the members of the Committee on Justice, the National Council Clubs, who have listened to us from the Ministry and whom we have been able to present our problems, but also the many experts and university professors with whom we have worked. There was such a big reform backlog that we could or had to renew 200 laws, depending on how you see it. This was not a regulatory act, but the judicial policy and legislation were marked by the fact that too little has happened in the years before. The priorities we want and will be remain the same. I was particularly pleased that Dr. Gusenbauer expressed today that he was looking for consensus. We want consensus in the field of justice, too, and we will maintain it. We are happy about every conversation with you and your Members; I can tell you that. I can also add that in the last legislative period we had the same consensus ratio as in the previous legislative periods. So we did not pass the opinions of the experts and even not the opinions of the members of the opposition; in principle, this was not the case, contrary to other reports. Of course, the judicial programme bears a liberal manuscript – even after that, Mr. Klubobmann's Professor Van der Bellen was asked – I can also show you this. It is a good thing that many Members of the House can agree with and, as I believe, agree with the objectives of the judicial policy, including for the next few years. We will continue to support the protection of the economically weak and those who are oppressed by mental or physical violence. We will continue to place great emphasis on victim protection, and we have also set up a fund to accompany the process for those who cannot help themselves financially or with a lawyer. This fund works! But to the surprise of those who believe that one can only do this in clubs, we have proved that individual support is possible and also cheaper. Social thinking and acting does not mean throwing around with a lot of money, but rather social thinking and acting is also compatible with savings. And we proved that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have not had to reject a single request from a crime victim; we have helped everyone. Previously, this was done by 166 clubs. I can tell you the following: This model, which we have created, will prove itself and will save the Republic of Austria a lot of money. It will be possible to continue to provide this assistance. We will continue the fight against violence and sexual abuse. I also hope for your support. We will continue to protect citizens from organised crime. There too, I believe, Members of the opposition parties can go along with it – I hope so at least. The same applies to the fight against social fraud and against organized black work. I do not see in this respect the possibility of contradiction or even resistance. We will continue the fight against drugs, and we are pleased, Mr Van der Bellen, that in the course of your government negotiations with the ÖVP the release of soft drugs – which we do not want! – was at least a debate point. We believe that this is progress. We continue the fight against drugs in favour of our children, in order to protect our young people. That's quite clear for us! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The principle of “helping instead of punishing” applies very well to those who are only addicts, but not to those who are guilty of procurement crime, and not even to dealers. There we have rightly introduced life-long penalties for drug bosses. We also call for a speeding-up of procedures, we also call for the principle of adapting the laws dynamically to the new developments. It was a mistake over the past decades that, for example, the criminal proceedings in the StPO were not dynamically adjusted. This law was discussed for 30 years – and now we are facing a political resistance that would not have occurred in this order if this law had been continuously adapted and innovationd. The new principle is “observation and action” – even in small sections. This also means more work for the judges and for lawyers, but this is undoubtedly worth the rule of law. We will also be participating in the EU, and we will be negotiating so that Austria can remain safe and secure as an economic location. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (pointing to the red lamp) Mr. President! The clock!]] I thank you for your attention and with a confession in favour of the independent courts and the independence of the judges. This is worth a lot to us, and that will help us to make many bridges between us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9378	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Prammer. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9396	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! By Federal Chancellor Schüssel, the astounding public has experienced a lot about the ice-cream race in recent months – even today in his government statement – over the past few months. He speaks of “compulsory program” – again today. What does his mandatory programme look like? What's the name of his mandatory program? – His mandatory programme means: Injustice and social reduction, removal of early retirement pension, burden on the sick and purchase of completely useless interception hunters – at the expense of the next Federal Government. We know what exactly is to be understood by “currency” at the latest, since we have known the government programme. In his view, it is said that unemployment should not be combated, but that the problem of unemployment should be considered as a Mickey-Mouse theme; Kür means for him: to risk the first-class health care of people massively. And neither in the mandatory programme nor in the cut-off programme, for example, is there really a sustainable guarantee of our pension system through a modern pension right – and not a truly advanced women's policy at all. It was a very, very big chance. The EIA has played the chance of a stable, reformable and internationally respected government. It has not proved the courage to make progressive policies – it has already been said several times today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, of course, many people are rightly wondering why. ==References== It all goes as far as it was, only the government bank has grown larger. I would like to stay with the interceptors for a short moment. Your government programme is very interesting when you can read the following – and I quote from the government programme: “The security and defence policy benefits of NATO membership are constantly being assessed by Austria in the light of security developments and keep in mind the accession option.” Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore understand the interception hunters as a morning gift to NATO, and I do not understand that you have brought the Austrian population, the Austrian voters to light before the elections. [[Abg. Scheibner: Unfortunately, you misunderstand that as always!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's just as it is in the Security Doctor, Mrs. Colleague! You should prepare a little better for your speeches!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It says: We are facing the largest retirement reduction in the Second Republic. Mr Klubobmann Molterer meant that a whole path would be taken. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Yes!]] How does this entire path look from the ÖVP? – The Freeman signs without any blindness. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Good!]] – State pensions need to be saved, but for private pension insurance, the money is spent: one to one! This is your concept of future security! [[Abg. Steibl: Mrs Prammer! Didn't you ask the SPÖ for 10 percent?]] This is white cynicism! Above all, this is a massive meeting of the weaker in the population, and among them, we know, are women. This is an active anti-wife measure you are planning here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Undisputed is that we need a modern pension right. But: How could it look? – Equal contributions, equal benefits. What do you write in the government program on the same articles? – A first visible step will be taken in this legislative period. [[Abg. May. Molterer: And what do we define as a goal?]] Of course, you have no interest in your clients paying the same tax rate, namely 20.25 percent of social security, as the other employees do. It would be forward-looking to start this measure really active here and from the first minute of your work. For this, however, the ÖVP simply lacked courage. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What else is in the government programme? - Life throughput. I personally do not mean that a model of life throughput is automatically unfair. One can make life throughput very fair under the pension system, only: What is necessary is missing. You do not say a word about the upgrading factors of long past times, you do not say a word about what suspension measures you want to take for women. This requires a full-time equivalent when women work part-time. I very much welcome – and I would also like to acknowledge the positive points in your government programme – that there should be a right to part-time work; however, it would be all the more necessary to implement these suspension measures for women also in the government programme and in the pension reform. In this way, it can be expected that women will have to take a pension reduction of up to 30 percent. And this is unjust! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The solidarity contribution has already been tailor-made. Our solidarity contribution would have affected those people who have a very high pension. What are you doing? – 1 percent across! [[Abg. Scheibner: What is a high pension for you? Who's a server servant with you?]] About the “little” official and the “little” officials, about the “little” pensioner and the “little” pensioners, as well as about the members of higher pensions. And this is unjust! It's just unfair! That's what we're talking about. You delete the early pensions. This is quite simply inconceivable, and the measures you want to take are the same. They are also very, very uncreative. It is essential to point out here, too. I would like to remind you of this, which has been through the media several times in the last few days: You told the population before the election something different than you do now. Tag ‘Principal pension’. – Ms. Rauch-Kallat took place on 9 May. October said – I quote them –: The People's Party is not planning any further legal increase in the early retirement age for the next legislative period. - Quote. What's now? It would have been nice if you had said this to people before the election and didn't leave them in the dark. But obviously the darkness, the dark, the black is the right color for your policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A special sign of courage is that you are giving up government responsibility where they need to be called for. For example, this is the case at the shop opening times – that has already been said – for example during working hours. The working time is obviously no longer regulated by law in the future, but it is individualised. If it goes well, this is still happening to the collective agreements agreements, but it may be shifted to the operational level. But that's not enough. This will also be done within the framework of individual agreements. I wonder what the “little” salesman who will do “small” employees in the future will do if she no longer knows whether to help her working time. This is human- despicable, and it is above all also deeply anti-wife-political, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: Be careful! What kind of a diction is that? What does “humane ” mean? Have a good time!]] Where are the fair opportunities for women? I very much welcome the fact that we have a women's minister again. Mrs Rauch-Kallat, I would like to offer you the cooperation of social-democratic women when it comes to making a truly progressive and feminist women's policy. There you have me as an alliance partner, there you have us as an alliance partner. It is about achieving independence and independence of women. I only hope that your announcement and statement, which you made just three weeks ago, will not be implemented, because at that time you have already banned women's policy into the past. Ladies and gentlemen! There would be a long sluggish sluggish of questions which I could still ask the Minister, but we will have enough opportunity to do so in the next few months. I would like to ask you a lot about how there can be a women's chapter in the government agreement, in which the gender-related language is cited, and then one only speaks of “the citizens” – just to give an example. Or: How will you, Mrs Minister, keep it when the back door introduces a very bad thing in the framework of your pension reform? – The different retirement age between men and women is undermined. Through a legal trick, it will no longer be guaranteed in a very foreseeable time that women and men have a different retirement age, which was guaranteed by law and constitutional law until 2019. You also need urgent action. Tag ‘voluntary pension split. - I don't know what to do. Marriage law is addressed. In marriage, marriage contracts are suddenly made on matrimonial law. That is, when a marriage contract is concluded, the marital law suddenly ceases to apply. This protective coat of many women is supposed to be hollowed out. - This list is very long. These are not measures that the women in Austria deserved. Tag ‘Authorism aid scheme’. – I very much support it – this is an old social democratic requirement – that emergency aid is not a reason for women’s insurance in pension insurance. But what do we do if you get rid of the emergency aid? And that is what you have in mind; that is also stated in the Government Convention. Then this measure is immediately obsolete. Ladies and gentlemen! Women's policy needs more than headlines. Women's policy needs courage, understanding and sustainability. If You want to go this way, we'd like to join you. We will try to prevent everything else massively in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9578	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9597	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the SPÖ: Dear ÖAAB!]] If one compares the three speakers of the SPÖ who spoke today, it is precisely what we have seen from the SPÖ in recent weeks and months. There was a chairman, Dr. Gusenbauer, in whom there is still a bit of sadness about the fact that SPÖ is not now in the Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: He's still there!]] [[Call to the SPÖ: Why didn't you become a minister?]] If you look at the people in the second row, Mr Cap and, in particular, Mrs Mag. Prammer, then you know why the SPÖ is not in a federal government. That has become quite apparent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With someone who's like Mrs Mag. in particular. Prammer sprays so much negative energy, as you almost have to worry about your health condition. [[Abg. Eder: Don't be proud, my colleague.]] That can't be healthy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the SPÖ:Well go!]] So much negative energy! Everything's bad and gets much worse. It's not like that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: No cavalier!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's too bad!]] When I imagine that today colleagues from the Social Democrats are sitting here on the government bank instead of the Freeman, I wonder: What, then, did the Government Declaration look like? Would they really be so different? Would the problem view and the solutions be completely different? – Ladies and gentlemen! Well, not because a SPÖ would also have to accept and take note that pensions have to be secured because people are getting much older. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Lower drawer!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Like an elephant in the porcelain shop!]] And I do not assume that you want to propose measures other than to secure the first pillar. Even the SPÖ would not come around the problem of securing the health system by maintaining the services for all, if possible, and by not cutting in so much as to reduce benefits, but also providing money on the revenue side. That would be no different for the SPÖ. With regard to public finances: How could it be different than that a government party carefully tries to give security for the next few years precisely for the social system? Ladies and gentlemen! In short: It would also be no different with a SPÖ in the government in the measures. [[Abg. May. Prammer: This is a mistake!]] It would only be other heads there. But: This idea which you give us in this House again and again, namely to let three rounds pass without even making a proposal on the important issues of Austria, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, speaks for itself and that still disqualifies you as a government partner. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Why are you lying?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, I would also like to address the Greens and Mr Van der Bellen, because he has been looking for the headlines of the government programme and has not found the subject of foreign policy. This too surprises me, Mr Van der Bellen, because if I think how long you have been here, how long Austria has been in the European Union and how much you have to know that each of the individual chapters contains issues of the European Union that have become internal policy, then I suppose you have only read the headlines and apparently not looked more closely at the content of the government programme. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Me too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: From foreign policy outside!]] And that's a shame! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Why does the ÖVP not praise?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In foreign policy, we are dealing with very wide-ranging issues which we need to clarify during this legislative period. First of all, this is the major question of how the enlargement of the European Union will take place, with what accompanying measures and the use of Austria will take in this context. In this respect, I should like to appeal very much to the common basis in this House as far as European Union issues are concerned, and to ask that we cooperate consistently on these issues. Many Austrians seem to be so far away what will become reality next year, namely that we will be a “union of the 25”. Some Austrians fear that enlargement on the labour market will be a major problem. And rightly, we must strive precisely for this concern. That is why the seven-year transitional period is an instrument that we must also use, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What is your speech concept? What do you want to tell us?]] I believe that we have rightly referred to this government programme by the EIA with our government partner that, with this seven-year transitional period relating to the labour market, we must ensure that there is no wage dumping and no competition for labour in Austria. We attach special importance to this, and that is one of the priorities! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to address the EU Presidency in the context of foreign policy. Austria will again hold the EU Presidency in the first half of 2006 – for the second time since our accession to the European Union. This Presidency means that the staff in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the foreign minister have to take care of it – and I am convinced that they will be able to handle it perfectly – that, if Austria is so to speak, we will also undertake an independent programme for these six months and apply our Austrian manuscript in an enlarged European Union. This is a very important task in preparation. There is a need for great professionalism and cooperation between all the political groups of this House so that we can prepare ourselves accordingly at the parliamentary level. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: You are not in office at this time!]] And I invite all the political groups to do so in time and in a very close agreement with the Federal Minister, so that this too becomes a success story in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to address at the very moment the question of foreign policy, which is currently being dealt with by many Austrians: That is the question of what is happening in Iraq, whether a war there would not have inevitable consequences. This fear of war and its consequences is almost omnipresent also in Austria. That is why I would like to refer once again to what we have been discussing in an hour. We want there to be no war. We don't want Austria to become a marcher. We want Austria to retain its sovereignty in an argument both on land and in the air. This is a very important and fundamental point for us. We also want the United Nations Security Council to remain the hub for a political solution – and remain in the future. And, of course, we are fully committed to UN Security Council resolution 1441. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we want the international community to put pressure on Iraq to disarm it. Every type of weapons of mass destruction in the hand of a dictator represents a danger to the whole world. No one is allowed to close his eyes to it, but has to put pressure on him to ensure that this potential for danger no longer exists. [[Abg. Oillinger: What about the arms exports?]] That is why I am making the following request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] I invite all of you to join this motion for a resolution and to take it as a sign in the context of this declaration of government, where Austria stands on this issue. I would also like to draw attention to another point in this government agreement. This is the question of the future of European security policy. We want this European security and defence policy, as we currently have it, to be expanded. In this government programme, we have expressed our will to move towards the European Union's commitment to assistance as the next step. We would like this assistance guarantee to lead once to a security union in Europe. This is certainly an ongoing goal that will not be implemented tomorrow. But, ladies and gentlemen, if anyone in Europe can be interested in it, then it is Austrian that we can do even more in the context of a division of labour for the safety of our people than we do today. I think this is an important idea and therefore believe that this framework of the government programme, namely responsibility, is central. This word includes what we so urgently need in Austria, namely answer. We need not only questions, we also need answers – and these are found in this government programme. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9929	The motion for a resolution, drawn up by Mr Spindelegger, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Glawischnig. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9950	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Spindelegger described Mrs Prammer's speech earlier with "negative energy" and took this as a disqualification for a government participation of SPÖ. – I find the criteria that are used as a qualification for government participation to be somewhat bold, especially if you look something into the past. We now have a new government on the government bank – not because we are on the 24th. A few months earlier, the government – and that was exactly the same – failed. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== With regard to the acting we have experienced before, which many voters have experienced, there is now the real danger that this will repeat. I would like to remind you once again of what happened there. A year ago, about the same time, the Temelín people's desire, the anti-Czech people's desire was just running. There was a huge dispute within the government and threats of resignation. It's said the government couldn't go on like this. Then there was a press conference with the slogan “No delete leaf goes between us”. Then came the journey of the Carinthian head of state to Baghdad. Hours of television discussions followed, in which three or four liberals sat together and said: We're still together! – And that went on for months! Dispute, Zank, Hader, months through! Finally, a popular desire was announced by the head of the Carinthian state, who said: Because of a little rain, you must not postpone tax reform. A popular survey has been announced here by the Vice-Chancellor. And at the end: Knittelfeld! – That’s not a “barge story”! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Lauter Schauergeschichten!]] That was the reality in recent months before the failure of the government! – This is history – because of a little rain. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is history!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Learn history!]] Knittelfeld is probably also a show story. But in the end, the government failed. Then it was in Carinthia – I forgot – a country captain who put it: I prevented the interceptors! [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Brilliant history of time!]] It was really a acting. As an opposition politician, we have already not known what we should say. [[Abg. Scheibner: Unfortunately, this happens to you more often that you do not know what you are saying!]] Every day we were asked: What do you say about the government crisis? We really didn't know how to comment on this acting. But to lay down such criteria as stability, in-depth work, the strength of the future, that is not what Mr Spindelegger did, but the negative vibrations of a good oppositional criticismal speech gave him the opportunity to say that the opposition was not in government. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: The Greens neither!]] So these criteria have a slight gap. Don't you think so? I've got a slight shredder to find out. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel then said: I want to make it clear, and he has announced that work on the subject within this government constellation is no longer possible, and he has called out new elections, which were then carried out. The FPÖ has lost two thirds of its voters. In the end, this course will continue. Wolfgang Schüssel has now said: We want to continue along this courageous path! – I think it’s really a very courageous way. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'm sorry to have to link these two stories together, but I think you can't see the future of this cabinet without the past of the last cabinet, because it's one and the same. At the time, the government has begun to consolidate the budget. Now we have to save, now come the lean years, it's called. I think with my humble house mind, after the lean years come the fat years. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: This is the problem!]] So in the Bible it is at least seven years. [[Abg. Scheibner: We still had time – four years!]] - You'd still have time, right? However, it has been announced that from 2003 there will be a tax reform and so on, as the fat years come. 1 billion € in pensions, 1.2 billion € in health care – these are fat years? Fat years look a little different. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But you have a longer life...!]] - I'm right, I have a slightly longer life. I hope, in the sense of the Austrians, that these meagre years will not be continued exclusively on this course, because the somnolence is also spread differently again. This is what I come to talk about later on under the theme of justice. The cabinet bowl has begun to consolidate, save. The SPÖ has been accused of “debt-Rudi” in the direction of former Minister of Finance Edlinger, with the ÖVP no longer being able to remember that it was also in the government and had the same responsibility for this budgetary policy in recent years. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But when you save, you did not treat important areas such as infrastructure, education, universities, women's justice in any way, but you passed over all areas, and the result is now seen in many areas: In the field of university, school, women's policy, as well as environmental protection, it has been meagre years, and there will be other meager years – unfortunately, to our regret. You would have had other opportunities, other opportunities, but unfortunately you didn't take advantage of these opportunities. And it has not been the courage with us, but the courage of the ÖVP has been to take a different path. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Fischer.]] I need to say something to the liberals. For a number of reasons, the liberals have let go of the government: EU enlargement, Temelín, Beneš decrees and tax reform not only in 2004. Temelín, you forgot, it kind of went down. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: The Greens have forgotten that, the anti-atomic policy!]] EU enlargement is now no longer a problem for you, I welcome. The tax reform will be implemented You're only right in 2004. You could have been cheaper! You now have points in the government programme, which, I think, are difficult for your voters, I am thinking of the rise in the price of petrol without an ecological steering effect and the Eurofighters. You still have to finance the Eurofighters. I congratulate you very much! It was an excellent strategy to let the government down because of all that you didn't want and now to have to carry it all back. Great strategy, really! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I come to my department now, and I also want to lose a few words. I noticed that the Federal Chancellor took a lot with us from the talks with us: Sustainability, climate protection, eco-social, even eco-social tax reform was to be heard – concepts that we have had for ten years to understand, today exemplaryly stated that I am really proud. Relieving work, burdening resources. But not everywhere eco-socially insists on it is also in it eco-socially. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A few examples of environmental protection, where I am disappointed. Climate protection Yes, of course, there is an international commitment to that. This helps the middle class, helps the small industry, is important for the construction industry. But then why not? Why wait until the necessary budget resources are made available to create jobs? [[Abg. May. Molterer: But that's what you agreed to! That's what you said!]] Why Rejoice Are you dealing with an eco-social tax reform if you still have massive weaknesses in it? I do not understand why you are so pleased with the large number of new registrations of diesel cars in your government agreement. In one sentence it is said that you are looking forward to the many new registrations of diesel cars, in the other sentence it is said that diesel contains cancer-enhancing particles. So somehow that doesn't fit in. We need a consistent tax reform, which not only increases prices but also guarantees freedom of choice. This means: do not limit the means of transport, at last carry out rail development in the East, to provide more resources for the ÖBB and no less. You also have to create alternatives, otherwise driving will only get more expensive for people, and ecologically it won't do anything. I think that is very easy to understand. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: You said that!]] Second point: withdrawing the public hand from the field of electricity supply, a very delicate subject. Last year we discussed the acquisition of the E.ON, a German atomic giant. I thought and wish that this federal government would at least write into its programme: The Austrian electricity solution should be supported, there should be no nuclear power imports. Instead, there is actually inside: Pull back the public hand. This can only mean that foreign nuclear power companies take the Austrian energy suppliers step by step. I don't know what the FPÖ says about it, it was sometimes supposed to be an anti-atomist party; it has already been very strongly criticized today. I don't think that's a good way. An Austrian electricity solution should develop in such a way that we really have a strong group that is viable in the European Union. There are a number of other points. I would like to take one point out of the agricultural sector, because it is so absurd: On the one hand, we increase diesel prices for normal consumers, for drivers, and on the other hand we lower them in the field of agriculture. I have nothing against doing something for agriculture, but why does it have to be something that is completely counterproductive ecologically? Why Make You don't want to do this, for example, with biodiesel, with something reasonable? – They are smiling now, but I think that is not understandable for a normal person. 1 billion schilling, that's a lot of money! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now I have to get to my final sentence. This government claims that its work is based on three cornerstones: future stability, justice, sustainability. I can Subsume your program only under: Instability, inability and anything other than sustainability, by setting down the status quo and further representing lobby interests, instead of taking a courageous step in a different direction. Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e10203	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e10221	Ladies and gentlemen! This is a personal, very emotional debate. Nostalgic memories are awakening. Mr Cap has already regretted how dynamic the mood was at the time and how pressed it is today. Mrs Glavischnig even admits that the opposition did not know what to say, because the government was so closed that not even a sheet of deletion between ÖVP and FPÖ had fit. [[Contradict with the Greens]] [[Ironic cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] It's really very interesting. However, some people use the discussion about the declaration of government not to explore the main points or at all the issues of the Government Declaration, to attack or criticise it from me, but above all to make them ridiculous, to detest them and also to devalue the government parties. But, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, it is not strong if one downgrades a government partner or a political party, but quite the contrary, that is a sign of weakness. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Van der Bellen! Yesterday, on television – I happened to hear it – you got a formal outbreak, all of which is the Freedom Party as a government partner: last time, we've heard that today, the most uninteresting variant, the most unattractive variant. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: What's wrong with that?]] I really wonder, Mr Van der Bellen: What Weakness Hides You behind these attacks? In my opinion, it can only be the weakness that you did not have the confidence to take over government responsibility with your Green Party and participate in the reform course of Austria, which was already urgently necessary, but preferred to remain in the opposition. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] – Of course, you have been afraid of this because unpopular measures need to be put in place because significant changes to pension law need to be made to give safety to young people who are in the work process today, once again a pension, because the health system needs to be reformed in order to continue to ensure the high medical standard we have in Austria. The FPÖ is committed to this reform course because it is necessary for Austria! We are neither the most uninteresting nor the most unattractive variant, but we are the only and the best alternative for the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Khol.]] And if, as Mr Gusenbauer has said, Mr President, I would like to ask you, Mr Gusenbauer, why is there such a great need for reform? Explore your conscience! Let the last decades of Revue happen! It has been enough for the past 15 years in which social democracy in Austria was the dominant political force. The reforms have really stayed on the track. There were no reforms there! Don't shake your head! I remember exactly, we were even in a coalition: In 1986, ladies and gentlemen, we have said that we urgently need a modern pension system, because the existing pension system, which is based on the 1955 ASVG, will no longer be sustainable in the future. At the time, we called for a three-pillar system with a 15-20-year lead time. If this had been implemented at the time, we would already have a working pension system now or in two, three years and would not have to run around with the topic of pensions. At that time, Social Minister Dallinger said no, and subsequently, there was one squirrel after another. It has always been said that this pension reform will solve the pension issue over the years. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You said that in 2000 too!]] This took two or three years, and it was necessary again to adapt the pension laws. That's it! Take note of this at last! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As in the last two and a half years, the basis has been laid for a first pillar, second pillar and also for the third pillar. In this way, we have laid the foundation for a pension system, as most OECD countries have, and this also ensures that the people who are now entering the work process will also receive a pension. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Don't!]] Mr. Van der Bellen! You missed the steam and the power in the government today. You know, you always close yourself to the others. Maybe that's why you're missing steam and power because because your green party didn't have this power and this steam to carry out the necessary reforms. Explore your conscience! They would have been given the opportunity to cooperate in the reform of Austria. You have already been criticized enough anyway, now you could have done something constructive, but this opportunity you have missed. Ladies and gentlemen! Also, today's spooky question has been asked: Where is the blue manuscript in this government statement? The new Federal Government, like the old German government, which has been in office for two and a half years, has made the situation of state finances and the recovery of the state budget the focus of its government and has given debt policy a rejection, because debt today is the taxes of tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, dear! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How urgent it was to put this recovery of finances at the centre of attention, it is clear that if we had taken on such further action as we had among socialist finance ministers, we would have risked getting the famous blue letter from Brussels – like other states. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: For this you got the blue letter from the voters!]] This has been prevented by the activity of the liberals in the government. This course will continue now. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today, the Federal Chancellor has been offended because he said in the previous government statement that the economic data are so positive. They were also much more positive three years ago. If you observe the economy outside Austria, you will see that there is an economic crisis worldwide. [[Abg. May. Worm: Who ruled?]] Don't ask me: Who ruled?- Oh, my God! All over the world, not blue-black, Mrs Wurm, but there are the various governments, and there are bad economic data everywhere. [[Call to the SPÖ and the Greens: Thank God! Thank God!]] Despite the bad economic situation, the Minister of Finance and this blue-black government succeeded in rehabilitating state finances in such a way that a zero deficit could be achieved for the first time for decades, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Is this your Minister of Finance?]] The liberal manuscript – as I am particularly pleased to be able to remind you of this – is particularly important in the financial field, in the economic sector. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Is this your Minister of Finance?]] – Mr Cap! At the time, their government has the 13th. VAT prepayment introduced. This government will be this 13th. To abolish VAT prepayment and thus make something very positive for small and medium-sized enterprises. There will also be a scheme which will lead to the discharge of non-profit profits. And above all – take note! – 200 000 Austrians will pay less taxes. There is no discussion about this, but you can be proud of it with us. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Van der Bellen has today, I think, said that he has missed integration. Ladies and gentlemen! Obviously, Mr Van der Bellen and his Green Group have slept the previous legislative period. After all, we have put in place a large package of integration in the previous legislative period, in which we have defined the introduction of German courses, which have established knowledge of the national language as the most important basis for integration in Austria. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: We know that!]] We have continued to include in the government programme “Integration Before Re-Enforcement”. I am also pleased that, under the influence of the Freemans, there will be a decisive improvement in asylum rights in order to avoid abuses and also to increase legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very happy to talk about the fact that the new government is fleeing from the responsibility that it is not responsible. Because taking on more responsibility than this government is no longer possible. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This government assumes responsibility for research, pensions, the disabled, women, health. . You laugh because you laid the foundation stone for the need for such a great reform in Austria at the time, honourable Member Gugerbauer, Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That was a good joke now!]] Gusenbauer! The opposition repeatedly complains that they are being driven over. But it has always been offered to you, both in the debate on this declaration of government and in previous debates, to participate in the joint dialogue. All Ministers have assured you that you should also have weight as an opposition. Take advantage of this opportunity and do not waste your time constantly re-criticizing!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e10463	The next step is from the government bank from Mr. Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Grasser to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e10485	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We have been rehabilitating over the last three years, we have reformed, and we have thus created a good basis for the future of our country. If you compare where other European countries currently stand, if you look at Germany and see that more than 4.5 million people are unemployed, if you see that massively high new debts are being taken up, then you will see that other countries, whether it is Germany or France, are threatened by collapse in their economic and financial policies, we can start a new set-up with optimism, with design will. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In Austria, we first need to raise awareness that it is no longer a matter of saying that our great neighbor is the model that he has been doing for a long time, not more “Made in Germany”, but that we can be proud of the path of the last three years, which has led to the fact that it is now more about “Made in Austria”. We will be exemplary the best countries in the world and the best countries in Europe, and this will be good for our workers, for employment, for the economy, for small and medium-sized enterprises and for industry in our country. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Deputy Chancellor of the Federal Government, this coalition is willing to assume this responsibility because we have a clear concept for Austria, a programme for Austria: medium-term, transparent, verifiable, a programme that has three essential objectives in financial policy: first – I emphasize it – a balanced budget over the economic cycle, second, a fundamental discharge – the largest tax reform in the history of the Second Republic is our goal – and third, of course, a focused growth strategy by investing in research and development, in education and in infrastructure. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: More loads!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Eder: announcements, announcements, all announcements!]] If you have said that the zero deficit is no longer important to us, I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, we have created a visible turning point. With the year 2001, we made 0.3 percent surplus – in Austria for the first time in more than 30 years. We had a deficit of 0.6 percent in 2002, in a year marked by a global weak economic situation – Germany had one of over 3 percent, France one of over 3 percent, Portugal one of over 3 percent. We have cut off excellently in international comparison, because we are convinced of this way, because we know that permanent deficits lead to more and more debt, that more and more debt leads to more and more interest payments. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: When will the zero deficit come back?]] It is €7 billion, Mr Gusenbauer, whom we owe to your debt policy, and because of these high interest payments, of course it was necessary to increase taxes. Who pays it? The population has to pay these interest rates, and with this less investment is being made in Austria, our economy is growing more slowly, and that is why we have less employment and more unemployment. That's a way we don't want! That's why we've done this turn, so we're still saying that high-conjunction must bring a surplus, recession a deficit so you can counter it. This is a policy with a sense of mind, and this remains our policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: When is there a zero deficit again? When? When?]] You ask when the next zero deficit is: Of course, it is necessary to continue consolidation in order to achieve this tax reform. Ladies and gentlemen, when you think back, what have we always said? We have always said that we need a zero deficit in order to achieve a tax reform. So what are we doing now? We are continuing consolidation. If you look at our consolidation path before the tax reform, you will notice that in 2005 we have practically a zero deficit again, a surplus in 2006. This has always been the basic requirement for us to be able to say that we can afford a tax reform because it is important to us that all can participate in the successful course of this federal government. And that is why we are able to take a first step not only in the Biblical seventh year, but already in the fifth year; so we are a little faster thanks to God. The first step will be taken in 2004: More than two million Austrians are favoured by the tax-free income of up to €14 500 – a very important point in combating poverty. In addition, the increase in equity for our businesses is the result of a favourable tax on the profits not collected and the abolition of the 13th. VAT prepayment because in Austria too the year has only 12 months. It is important to remove this burden. The second step will take place in 2005: a large-scale discharge of €2.5 billion. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: We act, we act, we create the future for more income, for more prosperity, for more employment in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e10584	Mr Bartenstein is speaking as the next speaker. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e10605	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My precious colleagues on the government bank! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Federal Chancellor has formulated in his Government Declaration that a successful location is the best guarantee of the future. I mean, the location Austria is successful, and the comparison makes us sure: If our financial spokesman Günter Stummvoll has spoken of four million unemployed people in Germany – that was the case last September/October – our Finance Minister has just spoken of 4.5 million unemployed, we need to take note of the reports of the German Federal Institute for Labour: 4.7 million unemployed in February, the second highest value since reunification, and that in a trend that in the annual period is no less than 410,000 unemployed and 83 000 workers are less likely to complain. [[Call the ÖVP:Red Green! Red-Green!]] And it is not only the new federal states that have been affected, but three-quarters of this increase in the so-called old federal states. It's not just unemployment, and that fits together: If Karl-Heinz Grasser and I are expected to grow from 1.4 percent this year for Austria, the Institute for World Economy of Kiel University has just today reduced its forecast for Germany to 0.4 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The comparison makes us sure that we are with the location and for the location Austria on a better course! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] ==References====External links== It was also a confirmation of the reform course of the last three years for us in November. We want to continue this decisive course of deregulation, liberalisation and the flexibility of the economic and labour world. We want to take the location Austria to the top three of Europe, in part we are already there. In terms of unemployment, we are the third best in Europe, although every unemployed person is too much for us. In terms of growth, we are significantly better than our neighbors. For the first time – and I thank our export industry for the most medium-sized structure – for the first time since people thought we have a trade balance and a current account surplus; tourism has also contributed to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Our objective here is: full economic and labour market employment and higher employment rates for those working groups and gender groups under-represented. These are the women, these are the older workers. Here we want to have significantly higher employment rates in four years than today – it is 65 percent for women. That is why the Federal Government has said that it is now and already in recent months, especially now, in the valley of economics, in the valley of the labour market, it is important to invest. Together with the social partners who play a very important role in this process, we decided on an economic package of no less than €1.1 billion in September last year. In 2005 we will have a total of €3 billion in discharges to the economy that consumers have passed on to. We will make decisive progress – I hope, together with the social partners – in terms of working time flexibility. This concerns the law on working time, the subject of shop opening will soon be brought into Parliament. I hope that the whole of the House will be able to go along with the right to part-time work for parents of children in the preschool age. We are particularly devoted to the target groups of young workers and older workers: Action 25/50. Why? Because in difficult working hours these two population and age groups are more affected than others. It is not less than ten points that have already been implemented here in part. Think of the massive qualification programme for young workers! Think of the massive programme in favour of medium-sized enterprises in the sense of the apprenticeship training premium! A right to qualification for unemployed people under 25 and over 50 is to be added here. I believe that this is an interesting starting point for the social partners to conclude their negotiations on the issue of soundness. A transitional allowance for those people who, despite all measures, will become unemployed at the end of their employment biography on their way to retirement will be a suspension measure which will be entirely in the interests of older workers, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Although it is much better ordered in Austria than in Germany, France or elsewhere, further flexibility of the labour market is needed. The proposals of the experts of the AMS are already on the table. Much of what Germany is not implementing now – keyword: Hartz – we have long realized in Austria. But we should move forward together in terms of early warning systems, in terms of targeting that every unemployed person should be taught within 90 days, in terms of unemployment insurance, in terms of access, not only for self-employed, but also for new groups of workers. This also applies to the outstanding measures to ensure equality between workers and employees. On this point I very much rely on you, my dear representatives of the social partners, but also on you, ladies and gentlemen of the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e10661	The next speaker was Mr Vergestnich. Your speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e10679	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! The Federal Chancellor said today in the introduction of the Government Declaration: “This government stands for a policy that does not predominate people, but rather a policy that truly calls things by name.” What do people have to think when they remember – it is now five months ago, almost on the day exactly – about the statements of the current Federal Minister for Smoking, after which there will be no increase in the early retirement age? What do people have to think, Mr Bundeskanzler, if you recently at the “Round Table” in agreement with the Vice-Chancellor on the question: How is it going to continue in Austria?, have meant – rightly meant! –: We are one of the richest countries in the world, since we have to be able to afford – this is your formulation – the interception hunters too!, and five minutes later we said to the question of social security: There's saving in there!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] What do people have to think if the social security of all Austrians is no longer eligible for funding, but is considered to be eligible for funding? This is a contradiction, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If the Federal Minister has just mentioned the tragic development of the labour market in the Federal Republic of Germany, I would also point to the tragic development of unemployment in Austria. It is still an unresolved problem that young people are looking for training places and finding none! It is still an unresolved problem that older people, from 40 to 50 years of age, are trying for work for weeks and months, but find no work! Nevertheless, this federal government goes here and says: We need to intensify early pensions, which is no longer eligible for funding. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Where is the courage for standard of living? Where is the courage to actually secure the pension scheme financed for the future? [[Abg. Head: You also need money, not just courage!]] They always refer only to the second and the third pillars! You will have to discuss with us in a few weeks what the interest guarantee is like in the so-called private pension scheme! You will have to discuss with us how the occupational pension provision can be financed in those cases in which we are already accused of five to seven percent loss of occupational pensions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is because you leave the courage, ladies and gentlemen of the government. [[Abg. Head: You don't pass the demographic development either!]] If you call the so-called "hackler rule" such a great success, I would like to tell you: We'll be excited about what it's going to look like. Let us not forget that only 30 percent of men and only 10 percent of women currently in unemployment meet the criteria at all! What about the 90 000 men and women who are particularly affected by the current labour market situation? What about those who are to be dismantled in the public service? The Federal Government continues to say: We are against early retirements, while in our own field they do exactly that with the “Action 55”, a “golden handshake” or a carnation, so that they do not notice? – This cannot be the policy of the future, ladies and gentlemen of the government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In this respect, the Social Democrats are not in favour of the principle of ‘buying money’ in order to save a billion, going ahead and then raising it again overduely, while in the labour market the principle of ‘happiness’ is to apply. Do we have the courage to link the labour market and pension system with each other? Who prevents us from saying: From a certain level of unemployment, there is no further development of early retirement plans as you plan them!Unknown term type: "%s".? If you have the courage to deal with such things, we will have a different situation than those we find today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is also the case in the health system: This brings the administrative burden back to its height. You know very well that Austria has an extremely low administrative burden in the social sector, which is still covered by this by the year 2003, at the level of the administrative costs of 1999. We can then talk about deceiving in the administrative system. Take it. Your own experts are serious, for example, Director Wetscherek, who says your plan that accident insurance should be divided is a wrong way! Let's go the way to bring more capacity into accident insurance, to get the expertise that is available there, instead of doing a division just because it actually fits into your color games! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Head: Now you disagree!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Rightly, the Federal Minister pointed out the actions for under 25 years old and over 50 years old. But I repeat: We are missing concrete actions for young people and older workers. Because the working time has been addressed: Federal Minister! You know at least as well as I do what flexibilization options we already have in labour law today. Their intentions are still evident: a normal working day with ten hours and the individualisation of working time rights. – This is not our way! The collective agreement must be a common way of determining the working time law! If you point to the Saturday work in connection with the question of shop opening times and say that it is a necessity that only every second Saturday should be worked – I am already at the final rate! – then I have to say: [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] This is a right which ensures that employees in trade are free every second Saturday. It is similar in the whole field of industry. It is not a concealment, but a further development of the industrial system is announced! Unfortunately, I do not have the time to deal with many other points. But I am looking forward to this debate here in the House, to a better policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e10806	Mr Grillitsch has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e10824	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This is a very interesting discussion. When we talk about sustainability, I say that this programme of the new Federal Government is the most sustainable programme in the future, comprehensive, and not a concept of the past, rather Heinz Gradwelt, raising tariffs and making debt, but a concept of thinking about reforms and proving strength. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gradual well-being]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The courage and spirit of enterprise and the power of reform characterize this programme, and above all the honesty to tell people what is possible and what is not possible. The people outside – that has already been said today – are much more realistic than many members here in the House. Let me say that too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The talks and the negotiations have shown that our Federal Chancellor and with him the ÖVP is the force that can talk to everyone – the power of the middle to address the issues. In my opinion, these discussions have a positive aspect because issues of sustainability have been sensitised by social policy and we now have the opportunity to set the appropriate accents here as well. I also say quite openly as a farmer's representative here in the House: Of all the programmes that would have been available, the programme we have now established with the FPÖ is the best for the sustainable income security of farmers! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We face major challenges: before EU enlargement, before the WTO negotiations and before the CAP reform. In the CAP reform, it will be necessary to include planning and security for rural families in the programmes so that they can continue to meet society's requirements in the future, namely to produce safe foods, to produce them environmentally friendly, to keep the landscape open and also to provide services. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] I am very glad that this government programme has explicitly secured the 3-billion-€ package for the peasant families – that was not possible with the SPÖ and with the greens – that there will be an operating offensive for the peasant families and a reduction in the agricultural diesel price. I am also very pleased that the rural issues have also been addressed. I welcome the fact that you are starting from the graded population key and going to a task-oriented population key. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now on “Ecologisation of the tax system”. Mrs Glavischnig! I don't understand you at all, nor do the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! We keep saying: Let's set the sustainability in the tax system! Let us change our tax system so that people are not necessarily punished by high taxes and deductions, but those who tax the environment and consume resources are rewarded by paying almost no taxes! Now we are making a first approach towards ecologizing, and you say that we would only burden people – and that in view of the fact that 200 000 Austrians are relieved!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. May. Worm: You've hollowed out the rural area!]] I am very happy about this tax reform – and this is the key instrument for using our domestic potential, especially biomass, where it is possible to launch a technology offensive to create work on the one hand and to protect the environment on the other. [[Abg. May. Worm: Do it at last!]] I hope that on many of the points I have now raised, you will get the awareness that they are important and right and ultimately secure the life basis in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e10923	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e10941	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Yes, we Greens have also negotiated. Many have been there in Austria, who have been talking to us over the last few days, and have said that it would have been important for Greens to go to a government and present a social corrective for the ÖVP, which this party is no longer. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Why did you vote against it?]] But this requires, Mr Molterer, the willingness of another party, the profound problems, the structural problems of this country, but also to have a certain openness to the social field, which unfortunately was not given. I will explain to you the example of your own vocabulary “future”, “sustainable” and “righteous”. [[Abg. May. Molterer: A good program!]] This is the lead of this federal government? Really? By the example of pensions? I'll tell you what it's like in the area of pensions: It is a theft at the future, if by abolishing the early board in the form you have planned to take the opportunity for young people to work! That's really it! You know very well – and this has been demonstrated by the debates in recent weeks – that when you abolish early pensions, there will be not only older unemployed people, but also many young people who have no chance of working in the labour market, especially as a result of your budget policy. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You know the numbers of the Wifo!]] You know the numbers, Mr Molterer. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Better than you!]] Even now, unemployment is spreading evenly between the young and the older by increasing early retirement age. We already know from various international studies, for example the OECD, that young people in Austria have no chance that we will have developing country levels in Austria as regards access for young people to the labour market, that many also have well-qualified but above all poorly qualified young people... [[Abg. Head: Which country are you talking about? From Albania?]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: We have the second-lowest youth unemployment...!]] “Education at a Glance” – these are studies that are not ours! There you can read, Mrs Education Minister – she is not here at the moment – that we have a very high rate of young people who are not on the labour market, who are not in the education system at home and are waiting for help. Yeah, don't you listen to the people?- Oh, my God! Do you not talk to the people and do not consider what it means for some young qualified but also unqualified people to wait for months, yes, for years for a job to have to look for a job?- Oh, my God! Don't you read newspapers?- Oh, my God! Don't you listen?- Oh, my God! Don't you see far away?- Oh, my God! You can feel it everywhere that it is not so easy for young people to find a job anymore. With the measures you are now taking, you are taking a theft at the future of this youth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you want to banish the elderly? You play young against old!]] However, they also commit a theft on the elderly, if a few months or years before their retirement is raised for them once again the retirement age. Believe me, in the last few weeks and months many people have written me letters, they have told me what it means for them – not only by increasing from 60 to 61.5 years, but also by the increase now planned – to have to work even more months longer or to stay unemployed, because their entire life planning, their planning with the operation no longer allows them to work longer. They have told me what loss of income this will result for them. These are not amounts which are about 10 000 s or 20 000 s, but which are amounts of 200 000 s or 300 000 s, which people lose through the measures you are now taking if they have to remain in unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! It is theft at the future if you cut the pensions by up to 30 percent on average for women. There will even be women who will have to suffer not only a 30 percent reduction in pensions, but also such a reduction – women who will then receive their own pension, which will be below the compensatory allowance that will drive them below the poverty line. Is this the "sustainable" and "future" and "right" rehabilitation of the pension system? Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! They explained very clearly: We want the first pillar of pension provision, we want to shut down the social pension system so that private future provision is a place. [[Abg. Head: We didn't say that! How do you have this statement?]] – In doing so, you will admit that you have people run their pension schemes on the stock exchange. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's wrong! They say the untruth!]] This is the wrong way, because this is not a sustainable rehabilitation of the pension system! They take people's future, whether young or old. This is certainly the wrong way!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11109	Mrs Fekter spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11131	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger has just claimed that the ÖVP wants to shut down the pension system in the first pillar so that there is room for private provision. – That is incorrect, Mr Oillinger! The right thing is: The ÖVP and this Federal Government want to secure this first pillar so that it will continue to exist for the population in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11169	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11187	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A powerful, healthy economy is the prerequisite that social security is also provided in the future. This government – it has committed it to the Government Convention – plans to release small and medium-sized incomes with a tax-free limit of around €14 500. In the same way, in the foreseeable future, it will be with a decision-making this year and implementation from 1. In January 2004 the small and medium-sized enterprises of our country were granted a necessary relief, by halving the taxation of non-compulsory profits. This is a requirement which, as I believe, is essential in the sense of equity formation, which is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, and also in the light of ‘basel II’, in order to safeguard the competitiveness of Austrian businesses. In addition, it is planned – and at this point I can apologise for the request I have often made for this mill – to eliminate an injustice, namely the 13. Sales tax prepayment, this special prepayment finally abolished in 2004 – now set out in the Government Convention. This is, by the way, an injustice, which has been decided as a special budget cosmetic under the direction of a socialist finance minister, a one-time effect that today, when it is turned back, is about €1.7 billion, but thanks to God, it is not Maastricht relevance. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there will be a reduction in the cost of wages, which will in particular have an impact on the cost of older workers. This means, for older workers, that their jobs will be safeguarded in some way. This requires stable state finances, fiscal consolidation, and a simultaneous continuation of the reforms that have begun in the last legislative period. It is understandable that these reform measures are easier to achieve at a time when the high economy is at a time of positive economic development. Unfortunately, we do not find this – you know that. All the more important – and I also say: all the more gratifying – is that developments can be made very clear because of the government's willingness to reform the last federal government. For example, in 2001, there was the lowest external trade deficit in ten years, and now, as we have heard, we have a surplus. Public debt was reduced from 64.7% to 62.7% of gross domestic product. In addition, despite the tense situation we have found, infrastructure measures have been increased, at least to an extent of 20.9 percent in the period from 1999 to 2002. So we have done what the opposition parties have repeatedly called for. Unfortunately, to this extent, infrastructure measures have never been put in place during the time of your government responsibility. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Very often today, in the debates, we have to invest especially in the field of research. I would like to give you the SPÖ in principle, but I must say: Take a look at the development of research expenditure under your government responsibility and compare this development with that of the previous Federal Government: Between 1999 and 2002, expenditure increased by 16 percent. [[Abg. To be sure, there has been an inflation of the ministers responsible! This is the only thing you've done!]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I am still addressing the issue of unemployment. I do not want to hide that, of course, every unemployed person is one too much. In view of the advanced time I will no longer make the comparison, but you can make him very comfortable, as the figures are known. Compare the unemployment rate with that in the EU average! Compare the unemployment rate of Austria with that of the Federal Republic of Germany! – For me the conclusion remains: God save us from red-green! I wish this Federal Government much success in its task of continuing the reforms that it has begun in the last government period for the benefit of our country. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11233	Mr Strasser, Federal Minister of State, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11254	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the last government period, the Austrian security executive succeeded in making our country Austria the safest country in the world for the first time in the history of the Republic. This is a great success, for which thanks to our gendarmen and police are valid. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria is the safest country in the world, because we have undertaken to review structures that were obsolete, because we have started reforms that were overdue, and because we have created the conditions for the Austrian security executive to be internationally compatible. That's what we've done now! In the next legislative period, it is about implementing two key projects that we have in front of us in the continuation of this concept of a secure Austria. I would like to take up the good basis of discussion from the exploratory talks and from the government negotiations and also the invitation to a good cooperation with Parliament, which has been carried out here several times from the speaker's desk. The two projects before us have been undisputed in all these discussions. As now again responsible Minister for Internal Security, I am very pleased that there is a fundamental consensus on the important internal security issues of Austria here throughout the Forum of Parliament, and I will allow myself to invite the leaders of the Committee on the Interior to discuss the work agreement and the projects within my area in order to find a common procedure on the principle of internal security in Austria. Both points that we find at the top of the agenda are points that we should address together. The first is the merger of police, gendarmerie, customs and shipping police. It is about creating a security team for Austria, which is available for the internal security of Austria, for the security of the Austrian population and for the security of the institutions of the Republic. The main issue is that, in good consultation with the staff and with the staff representatives, we are bringing together these guards within a legislative period, and I am also concerned to ensure that we find maximum agreement in good discussions with all the political groups present in Parliament. The best organisation would be one that could be decided by means of a constitutional provision. In any event, I will try to propose such a scheme and to discuss it with you, ladies and gentlemen, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Second point: Austria has always helped people in need in its history. Austria is an asylum country, and we will continue this good tradition as we have in the past, but we must be very careful that there is no hidden immigration under the title ‘Asyl’, and to make this distinction we must make more efforts in the future and in this legislative period. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Our aim is to speed up asylum procedures and improve the care of asylum seekers through outsourcing to professionals. This makes it necessary to make some changes in the area of asylum: the right of asylum seekers to participate in the initial clarification, the possibility of recruitment of the procedure if asylum seekers withdraw from the procedure, the legal anchoring of luggage and personal data control and some other points. I would like to mention three principles which are indispensable and necessary in this task from our point of view. First: We must be faster when it comes to protecting refugees. Secondly, We need to make a more precise distinction as to whether it is about escape or immigration. Thirdly, Of course, we will do everything we can to proceed in the European context and to make our rules in agreement with the Geneva Convention on Refugees. We will make great efforts to ensure that there are no autarchic Austrian solutions, but solutions that are linked to developments in the European Community, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! Through our ambitious plans for the next few years, there are three clear guidelines which the Federal Chancellor has already mentioned in his statement of government: committed to the rule of law, sensitive to human rights and very consistent against crime!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11336	Mr Hubert Gorbach has now come to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11360	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Ministry of Infrastructure, created in 2000 with the entry into government of FPÖ, is a key resource for the Austrian site and thus also for addressing the challenges posed by political development. I believe that infrastructure policy and transport policy are constantly changing in terms of strategic management tasks – tasks I like to devote to and where I will bring in my experience as a country and also as a federal politician, the resources of my employees and, of course, also my personal full commitment. By pooling all modes of transport, it was possible for the first time to ensure cross-road planning and coordination of infrastructure investments in a general transport plan. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also do not want to thank my predecessors very much – I do not know what work there is behind it. These have the countries, have stakeholders, have automobile clubs, have the best involvement of those affected – and what has come out can be seen. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Many thanks to Ing. Mathias Reichhold and Dr. Monika Forstinger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Worm and Eder.]] The implementation and further development of this huge infrastructure investment programme amounting to €45 billion – in a good distribution: 30 billion € for the Rail and € 15 billion for the road – will be a central task area in the coming years. However, the general transport plan will not only be good at dealing with today's and tomorrow's problems of transport, yes, transport at all, but also at increasing the quality of life, e.g. in the form of noise protection measures, in the form of the creation of transit routes, in particular where there is a danger of densely populated areas taking up all disturbing transit traffic. Today, ladies and gentlemen, for example, the construction notice for the first section of the Tullnerfeld-Trasse of the Westbahn has been issued – a project with an investment volume of more than €1 billion, which will not only ensure a lot of jobs in the construction industry, but will also lead to a significant improvement in the traffic situation for thousands of commuters. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the last few days, with the adoption of provisional road regulations for the Koralm railway, the planned progress of this project, so important for the southeast of our country, has also been ensured. There are, of course, several examples, such as in Tyrol, if, in the continuation of the Sub-inntal Railway Development, the aim of this Federal Government is to take a decision on the construction of the Brenner Base Tunnel, involving the European Union and, in particular, Italy, in this legislative period. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is also a lot to do in the road construction sector. The gap line in the high-level network and also the construction of second tunnel tubes, primarily to increase safety, will form or will already be fully underway. New transport management systems are intended to improve road traffic management. In this context, together with the ASFINAG, we are launching a very ambitious and rapid development programme around the agglomeration centres. All of this has to be seen from a point of view, which is: rapid resolution. This means that all projects must be accelerated. – We will tackle all of this, as we have said. An additional challenge is to ensure that at least the increase in traffic can in fact be dealt with primarily on environmentally friendly modes of transport, i.e. on rail and ship. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] To this end, we will urge that the measures provided for in the EU White Paper be implemented quickly in order to redesign road costs. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also say that, of course, all our efforts are needed to shape the expiry of the transit agreement, which is precisely the subject of the eco-points regulation, in such a way that an acceptable transitional arrangement with the other EU Member States is found. I think we're all here...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11472	Mr Minister, would you please come to the conclusion?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11491	Mr President, let me say that, of course, a profound reform of the ÖBB will also be launched in order to give the ÖBB the importance of being an environmentally friendly, good, safe and timely company. [[Abg. Eder: It was started already, three years ago!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11535	Federal Minister! In fact, you have the right to speak for 20 minutes here, but there is a presidential agreement for all Speakers. Of course you can claim your right, but then we do not need to conclude any more agreements.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11559	I would ask you, Mr President, to come to the end of my speech and just to say: I look forward to a good and constructive cooperation with you, the parliamentarians, for the benefit of our homeland Austria and its population. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11589	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11607	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister Gorbach, thanking your predecessors, you have remembered that you are already the fourth Minister of Infrastructure in just three years. It is therefore just too exciting to take care of how long you will stay in this resort. You have to say: The balance sheet of this department is clearly negative; it has been particularly close in this resort – but unfortunately this is very expensive money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: That's a premise!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] It has been discussed for many hours what the plans of this black and blue government are. – It has clearly been clear that this is a coalition of the past, a coalition of uncertainty, but above all with your government programme is a coalition of headlines. [[Call the ÖVP: Nothing as keywords of you...!]] You are obviously missing the courage for major and necessary reforms, reforms that Austria would have needed, precisely because of the kind of reform that you have caused, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: You have caused this traffic jam by the SPÖ!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You have missed the opportunity to lead Austria to a new modernisation course, and you have also denied the opportunity to ensure stability. [[Ironic cheerfulness in the liberals and intermediates at the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, you lack – even if you are constantly calling in – positive ideas for this country, ideas that Austria would now urgently need. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: Say something! Just keywords...!]] Everything that came from you is nothing new. We know all you have presented here today, the Austrians already know. You are only concerned about burdens that are just as unfair as they are inventive! And: They're putting off responsibility! That's just your favorite job! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I say to you: To shift responsibility is to try, for example, to shift this to health insurance providers in relation to the introduction of self-retainers! To shift responsibility is also to say in relation to changed shop opening times: Well, that's what the heads of state are supposed to do! To shift responsibility is to insist, for example, on the Prestige project of interception hunters, on interception hunters who do not want anyone in Austria, but who are supposed to pay the next governments or generations to come. This is a non-responsible policy – a policy that we reject by social democrats! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Think about who decided!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am particularly affected by this of your responsible policies in the field of health. Let's see what this government is up to in dealing with sick people! Instead of planning structural reforms that would have been necessary to ensure the health system sustainable, you have only flat ideas, and it will continue to do so, as Austrians already know about you. A sad example of this: the introduction of ambulance charges. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The only thing that you think of by ÖVP and FPÖ in the field of health policy is the inconceivable introduction of non-social self-retaining – and this is the next unworthy chapter, just after the unworthy and senseless ambulance fees you have also introduced. [[Abg. Head: What do your ideas look like?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I mean, it's worth having a discussion about self retention, but I already want to remind you that there is already 1 billion € in revenue from various self-preserves. That means that the ceiling is reached, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Head.]] An OECD study shows that Austria is at the forefront of private payments to the health system! It is therefore not a question of expanding it, but of creating a creative, courageous reform – and not of unimaginable self-reserving, as you want to introduce it from ÖVP and FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: What do your creative ideas look like?]] Many television viewers may now be sitting in front of the TV – there is a flu wave in Austria – and they can calculate what ÖVP and FPÖ require of them: twenty euros for visiting the doctor, ten euros for a visit to the house, ten euros if you need, for example, a lung X-ray – apart from the prescription fees. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The sadness of this is, ladies and gentlemen: For many people, sickness will become an expensive matter, and they cannot afford to do this self - unlike you, ladies and gentlemen! [[towards ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We from the SPÖ reject the course you take, that is, those in the direction of a two-class medicine! We are in favour of open access to medical care for all people, regardless of income. – Unfortunately, you have rejected the chance of a major reform for Austria by the coalition parties! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Wittauer.]] We from SPÖ have presented twelve initiatives to modernise Austria. These would have been sustainable structural reforms, and this would have meant more justice and more fairness in Austria. [[Call to the liberals:We have seen your restoration...!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For all people everything becomes more expensive – only this government becomes bigger and more expensive for the population! Money obviously doesn't matter in government! This government – we will measure it by its actions – unfortunately shows that it is a very unimaginable and, above all, a very brave government! And that's a shame for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11858	It now comes to the floor – with a speaking time of 5 minutes – Mr Deputies' head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e11887	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! After listening to several SPÖ redundancies – those of the party president Gusenbauer, further by President Vergestnitsch or now by the Federal Managing Director of the SPÖ – I have to say: There you start to understand – and so it will not only go to me, but, I suppose, many here in the hall – why the SPÖ was not able to form a government with us. As Mr Gusenbauer argued in a differentiated way, I should like to stress this positively, so that he has made several positive points, I heard from him the following speakers of the SPÖ: Ideas, heartlessness, consolation from the front to the back. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Eder: Exactly! That's it!]] So the SPÖ lacks constructiveness, lack of constructiveness at all corners and ends; also lack of willingness to deal with things in detail! This is pure demagogy and has absolutely nothing to do with balanced political discussion! – With such a party you really cannot rule! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, what would be your alternative? – Health costs increase by 7 to 10 percent each year. What would be your alternative? - See?- Oh, my God! Who's to pay for this? [[Abg. May. Prammer: At least not the sick!]] Reforms in the system are underway! The age of life, the life expectancy of people increases by one year every ten years. What are we gonna do? - See?- Oh, my God! Or should we take up your proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, and increase the contributions? Should we do this – and this is caused by a tax and tax rate, not least by 30 years of social democracy, which is already 44 percent today? [[Call the SPÖ!]] Should we raise these? – No, I tell you, we don’t! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Who pays the interceptors?]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's honest to tell people what things are. Matter is, life expectancy increases by one year every ten years. Matter is, the residence of people in the pension is getting longer and longer. It is therefore necessary to say to those people who want to retire and have safe pensions that, as a result of young people's willingness to work, they cannot be burdened with taxes and taxes at any rate. – This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! That's why one can only call it responsible, in a pension system moderatest – next year by four months: from 1. ==References== December – the age of arrival to rise for four months! You're painting a devil here on the wall that doesn't exist! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And the whole increase in the retirement age up to the rule pension age... [[Abg. Silhavy: And what about the calculation...?]] Mrs Colleague, please give it a rest. An intermediate call is nice, but constant intervening, as you do from the SPÖ, is really not going! You, Mrs Silhavy, are going to speak anyway! Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This increase will take place in very moderate sub-steps to the regular pension age by 2010. Therefore: That is responsibility, but that also means courage to tell people the truth. And I mean, That is responsible policy! Look I would like to ask you to look at the figures in this regard. Demographic development will be such that in the labour market in 2008, we will have the reverse signs of today. In other words, we are working with the slight, moderate increase in the retirement age exactly at the time when we will lack the labour force on the labour market! That's what all the experts are saying that this will be so! That's why I'm telling you about the SPÖ: Do not act as if we were going to do something to the population now! Just the opposite is the case: We take on our responsibility as a politician and secure the important, valuable and good pension system in Austria also for subsequent generations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the conclusion: But what we need in order to secure the social systems for the future – the German Chancellor has already said this in his statement of government – is a good economic development, a stable economy in order to finance these social systems. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] I think – and I am already at the conclusion, Mr President – that this government programme contains a large number of positive and, as experts say, in the right direction of economic policy incentives and measures that support exactly what we need to secure our social systems: sufficient economic growth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12032	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Worm reported in word. Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure: Set in two minutes First, please represent the facts to be corrected and then the right one. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12053	Thank you, Mr President. – Mr Kopf has claimed that this government will not increase health insurance contributions. [[Abg. Head: Mr President! That's a false claim!]] [[Call the ÖVP: He didn't say that!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] I am actually correct that this government is increasing health insurance contributions, namely to pensioners, to employees, that it is therefore not only introducing self retention, but also increasing contributions.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12118	The next speaker is Mrs Lichtenberger, who will be speaking to us for 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12136	Ladies and gentlemen! Shortly before me, two ministers have now spoken, who are jointly responsible for one of the major issues of the future in some areas: the “Mr. Safety” and the “Mr. Transport”. I believe that these statements and the findings of the future transport and transport safety policy in the government programme we are presenting today are important that they are so important that they should be discussed in this House. Federal Minister Gorbach! I have so far met you from Vorarlberg rather than a very asphalt-loving councillor, the road construction projects that clearly contradict the Alpine Convention have forced you again and again and again against all resistances of abrasives. [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] I experience you today as a new minister who tells us that everyone has been involved in the development of the so-called general transport plan, and then all of them from the economy to road construction. A group you, Mr Minister, have forgotten today, of course, a group that I consider to be one of the most central and important, namely those of the arrants. The arrivals of very strong passengers This is the case in the case of transit routes, which were not included in this general transport plan, and which is exactly what it looks like. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, I see no turnaround in your goals that you have described today. I see that you still maintain the illusion that it's money for the train there, it's a lot of money for the train there, and half for the road. However, they forget to say that – and this becomes clear when you look at the funding in concrete terms – there is a big difference between road and rail with regard to financing: As far as the road is concerned, financing is guaranteed, as far as the railway is concerned, it is in the stars. And if you announce today that to 736. Once the decision is signed that the Brenner Base Tunnel is now being built, I tell you that this will not contribute to the solution of the transit problem in our country at all. This signature will be only one in a long series of signatures that have not yet done anything. Ladies and gentlemen! The programme of this Federal Government in the transport sector is one of the chapters which most clearly lack sustainability. Sustainable orientation, orientation to climate change targets is simply not available in the transport sector. The Kyoto targets are not sustainable if you, Mr Minister, prefer road construction as much as it was both programmatic and out of your speech, because every profit that industry and house fire brings to us in terms of emissions relief immediately devours us from road traffic and it overcompensates him. We will never achieve the Kyoto targets if we do not make an offensive effort to improve public transport promotions, to secure mobility for all, not just for drivers. And you still have to do this, Mr Minister, and you still need to integrate it into your programme. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You are talking about process acceleration, and in this context I would like to draw your attention to the following: The most urgent procedure we need to accelerate is that of the IG air, which is that from the year when the limit values have been measured, until the adoption of measures does not have to last two or three years until people can finally breathe freely again along the transit routes. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! That's a central task. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would now like to make a request on an important issue which should be a central issue for both ministers, namely the issue of road safety. This is primarily one of the most burning problems for me. We have just read in recent days again the control reports of driving time crossings concerning truck drivers. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] In this request, I call for the development of a control network, a network of control stations, where vehicle status, transhipment and, above all, working conditions and compliance with the driving times of truck drivers are checked. I think this is more than urgent and overdue. In addition, we also need to...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12220	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The application has only two lines. Please read this, and he'll be brought in. You're 45 seconds over the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12236	Please forgive me, I believed the light started to flash later. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This concerns all of us, and that is something that makes Austria safer, including on our motorways and heavy-duty routes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12290	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lichtenberger, friends and friends, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Mainoni. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12311	Mr President. Dear Members of this Federal Government! High house! It is precisely the comments of the Greens that give me the opportunity to highlight this strange policy of the Greens in recent months and to bring them closer to the Austrians. It is read that Mr. Klubobmann Van der Bellen is tired of being exhausted. He makes a break, a creative break, say weighted media. And his speech was also worth noting: He's tired. But he actually has a reason to be tired. Such a political slalom, as you have driven from the Greens over the past few months, is truly tiring, Mr. Klubobmann Van der Bellen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A chronology of this power-absorbing slalom ride – and please correct me if something is wrong –: ==References== November, two days after the election: Extended Federal Board of the Greens. The Greens are committed to an opposition role. – One was probably not satisfied with the election result. ==References== December, only eight days later: Mr. Van der Bellen relativizes the opposition appeal and, for the sake of caution, appoints a six-member team. ==References== December, a few days later: Extended party leader of the Greens for Coalition Negotiations – that is exactly the opposite of what was 14 days before. ==References== December, that is, before the well-deserved Christmas holidays, Mr. Klubobmann: The Greens stop the talks with the ÖVP – again a turnaround by 180 degrees! They entered the well-deserved Christmas holidays at the Greens, and on 27 July. January continues the slalom ride: The Federal Chancellor invites Mr. Klubobmann Van der Bellen to a conversation, and he is happy to accept the invitation. ==References== February then again an extended federal board of the Greens – this must be a rather interesting body, which always decides something different –: 21 : 8 for coalition talks. ==References== Finally, five days later: the tear sample, the coup of the Vienna Greens. They call for the termination of the negotiations. ==References== February finally the victory of the left, the Marxist wing of the Greens [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] Negotiations have been concluded. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Within two months such a slalom ride: Opposition, perhaps not, coalition, opposition, coalition and at the end again opposition – this is a hord of rupture, which is a hord of disunity. You, the Greens, will certainly not hinder our reform projects in your style, in your kind! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I come to the point of content – and first of all I would like to address the issue of internal security only as a saying and take some points out. On asylum procedures: These include reformed, mainly in the sense of asylum seekers, but also the Austrian population accelerated. The end of the premature citizenship, ladies and gentlemen, of this unkind, which has spread in particular in Vienna, is that everyone who makes a request cannot even be German, let alone know our laws, our habits and the like, immediately singled out, immediately giving citizenship! During this legislative period, we will also ensure that citizenship law is respected. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another point: Integration of foreigners before re-entry. The fight against crime, of course, is a key issue, see organised crime, drugs. Reform of the Assembly Law – perhaps only a detail, but a very important detail. Mr Oellinger – he is not here right now – but Mr Pilz, too, will know: In the past legislative period, there have been some major demonstrations which have not been notified at all. It was only too common that there were demonstrations with violent crimes, without the registration of these demonstrations. – There will be no more that in the future in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The subject of traffic. – Public transport should be given priority. There will be a corresponding quality offensive during this legislative period. Individual transport, however, has to deal with major issues – for example: the current transitholles in Western Austria. Here the government is required to represent the Austrian solution hard. But the enlargement of the EU also brings a huge traffic link – and it will roll on us. [[Abg. Eder: What are you doing about it?]] Road freight transport will rise by 238 percent from the Czech Republic by 2015, from Poland by 241 percent and from Slovakia to Austria by 781 percent. This will be a traffic link from east to west, ladies and gentlemen, but I am confident: It needs a consistent and forward-looking policy, and this government will do so! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12404	Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has now come to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12425	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Following the successful conclusion of enlargement negotiations, Austria is a strong heart in Central Europe in an excellent foreign policy situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, continuity in foreign policy is of course, and that is why not every word in the government programme has been formulated. What can we accomplish with it? – Strengthen stability and security in Europe, in our immediate environment and, of course, for the Austrian population. Let me take out six points, which are particularly important to me, on the basis of the short term of time: First, enlargement. Enlargement will be a success, and that is what we can best say. That is why I am going to work to ensure that we are moving forward with the ratification process as quickly as possible. Secondly, The regional partnership, which I have already remembered in advance, and where I thank my colleagues for participating, in safety, in transport, in the economy, in work, in culture and in cetera, will now be fully developed. This is extremely important for us. Ladies and gentlemen! We must rethink Europe. What does that mean? – We now have to address the crucial issues in the Future Convention, because now the important phase is coming. I have found in the government negotiations that we are relatively close to each other in this respect. I think it is very, very important, and I would like to invite you, each time, to deal with a representative of the political parties, with Mr Farnleitner and with me on this issue. We want to move forward together. What's important to me? – Above all, a common foreign and security policy that can speak more with one voice in the future than it is now. We see at the Iraq crisis how important this is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, I would also like to move forward in the European Security and Defence Policy, and I hope that it will also succeed here in finding a modern, forward-looking approach. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what is the third point? – of course, Europe’s new thinking also means addressing south-east Europe. That means going beyond this first circle. That is to say, to support Croatia, which has submitted the first application for accession. I would like the Avis to be as quick as possible. But this means, of course, that we continue to support the entire area – through the Stability Pact and Dr. Busek, through the OSCE, where we have many opportunities, through the Council of Europe and, of course, through the ZEI, the Central Initiative. By the way: With all these organizations, we have Austrians in management positions, and I am delighted about it! And that has changed under my chairmanship. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Fourth point: Conflict and crisis management and conflict prevention. We now see crisis management in one of the biggest crises in which we are located or which comes upon us: the Iraq crisis. I welcome the motion for a resolution tabled in Parliament, because it is essential to say: Iraq needs to be discouraged. At the same time, it is essential to do everything to achieve a peaceful solution. It won't be easy, but you have to do everything until the end. Finally, we must support the Security Council – this must remain the decision-making body in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What are you doing, Mrs. Foreign Minister?]] – I told you last time, but you obviously didn’t listen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Fifth point: In the long term, if we want to create peace, we must fight poverty. That is, we need to advance development cooperation. I am pleased that this joint compromise was successful at EU level, and this will be implemented in the context of Austrian foreign policy from 2004 onwards. The last point, Mr President, Mr Hohes Haus: Of course, it is a matter of course for us to put human rights policy and peace policy at the centre of Austrian foreign policy in all areas. That's political, that's social, that's extremely important economically. In this context, I am working towards human rights education by putting a manual, a manual, on the table, which can be target-oriented and ground-breaking for the whole world. I believe that this is concrete policy on how to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12520	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mr Platter, President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12552	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government colleagues! High house! The greatest good for the citizens is peace, freedom and security, and the Austrians have a right to give them protection and security. Defence policy plays a very central role here, and I would like to make a proposal at the beginning of my work as Minister of State Defense: Let us find an objective consensus on defence policy, and let us fail to face up to social services for defence policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It's about more, it's about something very valuable: It is about the security of every individual citizen, but it is also about the security of the Republic of Austria. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If one is responsible for defence policy, one has to adapt to security changes, and above all one has to judge: How does the situation develop in Austria, in Europe and beyond? And above all: What measures are needed? However, the framework conditions for this have changed significantly over the last one and a half decades and are still changing. Not too long ago, the Ministers of Defense discussed the defence of Austria, a country that was then between the fronts. Today the situation looks quite different, and there are quite different questions. What can we do today and tomorrow in the common Europe and beyond to make our solidarity contribution to a new peace architecture and thus to secure our state community? And second: How can Austria and Europe protect themselves from new threats? – I am thinking about the 11th. September 2001, when this was undoubtedly painfully brought to our attention. – The answer to this is: We must avoid conflicts and threats in advance. Conflict prevention is thus given a new priority in all possible facets. In this context, cooperation and solidarity are indispensable instruments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The further development of European security and defence policy is, of course, essential for its implementation. We support all efforts to create security in the European area in solidarity, up to the guarantee of assistance. This means that, in addition to the territorial defence tasks, international solidarity services and disaster aid, and in particular assistance, will be priorities. High house! This was just a brief overview of the current challenges of the Austrian federal army. But they can clearly read from the fact that our army, with its abilities and its independence, is indispensable. As the airspace surveillance vehicles or aircraft have already been discussed today, I would also like to say a word about this. [[Abg. Oillinger: vehicles?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] We have a responsibility to protect our own airspace. I am therefore very clear: As we need safety and protection on the ground, we also need the appropriate protection in the air. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make it clear: That is no need, that is our duty to do! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] Last point: I am concerned about making the presence service even more attractive, and I am pleased that the Federal Chancellor has responded to it in his statement of government. I want the young people to be happy to attend for a few months and to say: It was a sensible one, it was a valuable time. To conclude: The highest good is peace, freedom and security. I would ask you all to support the necessary efforts within the framework of a cross-party consensus, and I promise you that the Austrian Federal Army will always be ready with all soldiers in the interests of peace and security in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12624	I call Mr Matznetter. He too has set his speaking time at 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12669	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! A new black and blue government – the last one was in the sign of the zero deficit, a word that has not only removed itself from the language of this government, no, we also have a discerning finance minister! He only admitted in his press conference last weekend that he had learned from the past. The question is: Did he learn enough? A quick look back: At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Budgets, the President of the Court of Auditors said clearly what happened this year of the zero deficit, 2001. The truth is: There has been no expenditure-side adjustment of the budget! There has also been no process that would deserve the term “saving. ” [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] It was exclusively rehabilitated on the revenue side. Mr President-in-Office of the Council said quite correctly that the last government had indicated that 72 percent of the recovery would take place in the area of expenditure. The government would then have reduced it to 68 percent and actually delivered a result in which rehabilitation was carried out exclusively via the revenue side. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Only: What Is the Means of Income Page? – The revenue side means that the Minister of Finance’s grip was felt in the pocket of every Austrian and every Austrian. And in this context, I would like to point out that Austria already has a government revenue ratio of 52.4 percent – the much-studented Germany by Minister Bartenstein, please, has a quota of 45.7 percent! With the Austrian percentage, Mr Eichel would have a budget surplus of 3.5 percent! That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] In view of this, Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel stands here today and actually says: We have ended the debt policy!? – His name is Mr Eichel. [[Abg. Großruck: Who is Mr. Owner?]] If you have hearing problems, you can take a hearing aid, Mr. Col. [[Abg. Großruck: “owner” he said! He doesn't even know the German Minister of Finance!]] By the way, Mr. Finanzminister Grasser – Grasser with “g”, not “Krasser”, if hearing problems exist – stated in a letter to our party presidents that Austria today has a public debt of 67.9% of GDP. – Ladies and gentlemen! This represents an increase in government debt of more than one percent in GDP compared with 66.8% in 2000. [[Abg. Scheibner: Tell it in percent of the deficit!]] This is the reality of the government bowl I: Higher debts and no rehabilitation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ellmauer:... Maastricht-relevant...!]] – Of course, the public debt is Maastricht-relevant, Mr Colleague. He is always blaming himself with the Maastricht-related deficit. [[Call:]] But I am now coming to the overall financial policy. We have learned too little from the mistakes the other day. [[Abg. Scheibner: Maybe you are!]] And, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, even if the Minister of Finance is slowly transferred from the FPÖ to you, it will not be better for the EIA. [[Abg. Murauer: Let this be our concern!]] We have given up on making economic and budgetary policies in such a way that they bring something for the future of Austria. The reality is that you believe that financial policy takes place by disposing and not investing at the right time. This is the wrong policy! I can only assume that the gentlemen in their youth have simply learned too little about the minimum level. Ours – and I have allowed myself to bring this – has learned from the DKT in the youth. It's not enough to take 200 off at the start, no! You have to invest, and then you win. [[Call:Now we know why you...]] [[The speaker takes a DKT game out of his fabric sack and hands it over to the State Secretary, Dr. Finz, sitting on the government bank.]] [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] The Secretary of State receives this in the representation of Minister of Finance Grasser. He will learn that we have to invest, then we can win in the economy. The other group, unfortunately, lacked courage for these proposals from my group. [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: (in the direction of the speaker) Mr Colleague! That's an old DKT, in Schilling!]] – Of course, he got an old one. He forgot to play at the time, so he has to recap it now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Give this to the cast farmer!]] In terms of economic growth, Austria is in the EU's leading position. Austria has fallen dramatically in terms of growth in employment within the EU. Austria has the lowest public investment rate. These are the realities today, and for that there is a responsible person: Federal Chancellor Schüssel and his newly formed black and blue government! I would like to come here briefly to the so-called largest savings package of all time. So far, I have only always heard of the “greatest lord of all time” – so new wording also in Austria. In any case, there are two points to be noted: For the year 2004 – a year too late, ladies and gentlemen, because the SPÖ's request for discharge was already in this House in April 2002 – a discharge is now being carried out, which we may really be able to reap in 2005. I don't think she's coming. I don't think that this government will still be in office. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12896	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e12915	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear members of the government on the government bank! High house! A sentence to my previous speaker Matznetter: While the SPÖ seems to play DKT, the government parties ÖVP and FPÖ are working for the future of our country, for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Quiet, my Lord! I'd like to re-examine: Future needs responsibility in order to be sustainable and fair for the Austrian mothers, fathers and families. 2004 will be the international year of the family. We want to make the most family-friendly and child-friendly country in the world after success, such as the child care allowance, family hospice, home travel allowance for students and students Austria, as our German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel said today. As chairman of the Family Committee, I welcome – unlike the opposition – the fact that the new distribution of resorts has made a very clear signal for women and for families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Family Committee of the National Council offers you, Mrs Ursula Haubner, a constructive cooperation, and you, Federal Minister of Rauch-Kallat, a constructive cooperation. We'll do our best. A common relationship will show many ways. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It was regretted by the opposition, in particular by the SPÖ, that women's policy in the family policy is going down. Mrs Prammer has called for a genuine feminist women's policy in her today's speeches. I would like to quote as an answer from an issue of the “Format”: “However, Greenberg also saw and sees weaknesses in women’s policy: In order to achieve this, the SPÖ, Greenberg said, would have to put forth more effort – and, above all, produce personalities and hanging signs within the party, which these women also address.” – citations. More is needed, I think, not to say any more. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: But between politics and advertising is a difference, isn't it?]] – I don’t think that was the advertising of the “Uncle from America”. That was, I think, the SPÖ election counsellor. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: He was worth his money!]] We're setting different accents! Through its own Federal Ministry of Women and its own State Secretariat for Family, this Federal Government sets clear priorities. I would just like to add a few, and I also welcome this: The most important issue of the new legislative period will be the compatibility of work and family, hand-in-hand with a right to part-time work in medium and larger enterprises and flexible working time arrangements for parents from children to school entry. We, by the ÖVP, have already focused on this area. I am thinking, for example, of the alliance with the economy, including the President of the Chamber of Commerce, under the motto “Economics creates work”. This also ensures the future of our families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As a steward, of course, the minimum wage is an important concern to me – this claim has been born in Styria. A minimum wage of € 1,000 – that is the future! In view of the fact that it is still possible to read in a daily newspaper today that more than 300,000 people in Austria are still living below this income limit, it is time that this demand, which the social partners have not succeeded in implementing in collective agreements, is actually being implemented. It is also important to mention once again – and you can't do it often enough – that now not only 18 but 24 months of child care time are counted as pension-based – not just as replacement times. There is also a need to discuss a possible increase in child care allowances. We also need – which we often push away – even more stringent measures against the abuse of children, as well as addiction and drug prevention for our youth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, there must be increased partnering and parenting, as parents are often required too much in this society. Finally, I would like to stress: A modern female and family policy is a political cross-sectional matter that must cover all areas of life. And gender and gender equality is the key to a sustainable social policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13010	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Lunacek. I'd like to set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13028	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Bundeskanzler, you said something important at the beginning of your government statement, namely that this government wants to take a look beyond its own borders. - Well! However, a look at the Government Declaration and the Government Programme has shown that this view is a little more focused on Europe, but beyond Europe's borders it does not go far enough. As far as foreign policy is concerned, this government has left courage, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: “Smart applause” will be in the Minutes!]] This is clearly evidenced by the fact that, as Mr Van der Bellen has already mentioned, you are making a confession to the European Union's peace project – to which I agree – but after that South Tyrol and the old Austrian minorities are already coming. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] When I read this, I realized that we Greens also had this in the negotiations with the ÖVP, namely in the first draft text of the ÖVP. You probably confused the papers for the negotiations with the liberals with those for the negotiations with us at the time. The second point in our negotiations was no longer in the second draft, because this cannot really be a focus of Austrian EU policy. The Convention and the EU enlargement will only come as a point three and four of the government programme. On the subject of the Convention, Mrs Foreign Minister, as others have already said before me, there is not much in content. What's that like? Does Austria want to anchor the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the EU Constitution? [[Federal Minister Dr. Ferrero-Waldner: You know that!]] – Then you should have written it in the government program! You say I knew you wanted to. Perhaps I know that – that may be already – but then it should be in the programme of this government, Mrs Minister! Who else can know? Perhaps the Members who discuss with you from time to time, but this is probably also intended for the wider population. How do you think they're gonna know? How do you deal with the European Parliament? Should it have a right of co-decision in all legislative acts? That's not the government programme either. Or: How is it that the Council, in its capacity as legislator, should meet publicly? These are very important points to bring this European project closer to the population as well. But none of it stands inside! I wonder, Why? Maybe you didn't want to express it so clearly here. For enlargement. I am very glad that the commitment to ratify the enlargement agreements has been included in this government programme. This was probably not a very easy step with the FPÖ, but anyway, it stands inside. I hope that you too, Minister Gorbach – he is not present right now – will stick to this government programme in the future and will not put any veto threats in the room again. In fact, these policies are anything but advocating Europe and are not the best for neighbourhood relations. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! They said that it was necessary to advance reconciliation in the Austro-Czech relationship. I very much agree with you. That's necessary! These relationships should be improved – but jointly, and not with calls for the Czech and Czech Governments to do, but in a dialogue. In this matter, something has to happen on both sides. Mrs Foreign Minister, you mentioned the importance of the South-East European area for the forthcoming enlargement, for example Croatia. I agree. But there would also be a need for a strategy for the further south-eastern Europe. You also mentioned the coordinator of the Stability Pact, Dr. Busek. Wouldn't it be beneficial to get this Dr. Busek as an enlargement officer for Austrian politics to this region? That would be a signal in the right direction! As it is at present, as you, Mrs Minister, have called it, “strong heart” has quite a heart rhythm disorder, because a real EU policy is unfortunately not yet to be seen. Foreign policy is presented in particular against the background of external security. On development cooperation there are a few vague sentences, but nothing about achieving or the legal anchoring of the EU's ODA quota of 0.33 percent, nothing about the UN's Millennium objective, poverty reduction, fair trade, which is supposed to be so important to you, a study on the foreign exchange transaction tax that you even mention in your book – nothing of it happens! All of this is not really forward-looking, Mrs. Minister – because why write You don't like this content in the government program when you say you're planning it anyway? That's part of a government program! Foreign policy has neither hand nor foot.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13100	Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13115	A point on security policy, as the improvement of the relationship with NATO is being put in place here, is the duty of assistance. You have probably forgotten, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, that the abolition of Austrian neutrality would require at least a referendum in order to introduce this duty of assistance. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does “at least” mean?]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] It's not inside, but you'd have to.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13178	Ladies and gentlemen! We've got the last hour till 5:00 in front of us. On the basis of the decisions taken by the President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to extend the speaking time evenly to the eleven speakers who are still on the table until 5 p.m. That's why I'm asking everyone, When the lamp stops to shine, it really stops talking so that everyone can get along for the same time. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - 5 minutes. Please pay attention to the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13204	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The colleague of the SPÖ has handed over a DKT to the Secretary of State from his rich fund of children's games, I suppose, and that was a good choice. This shows that he has kept the recorder with the balls, and he will continue to need them to control the basic accounting methods, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, because this federal government has the largest budget deficit that has been handed over by you. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] The SPÖ is responsible for the deficit that this government has to tackle and its removal has already been addressed by appropriate measures. You should remember this, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Wrong speech! She's three years old, the talk!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The speakers from the Greens have made a ridiculous appearance for South Tyrol and for the displaced, including you, Mr Klubobmann. I find this remarkable. – This federal government will also have the right to act for citizens and human rights in one of the most important areas of its concern during the next legislative period. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Foreign policy, which has been made by this Federal Government over the last three years, will continue in the coming years. It is a stable and continuous foreign policy. It is important to continue to represent the interests of Austria in all international associations, from the UN on the OSCE – the Minister of Foreign Affairs has already responded to it. Austria's interests will also be in the foreground in Europe's policy. The fact that the government programme does not contain everything that is now being discussed politically in the context of the Convention, Mrs Colleague, is, I believe, a matter of course. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] But in the next few months we will be able to debate the Convention, the re-design of Europe, the institutions and their roles in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of European policy, it is also about the common foreign and security policy. Within the framework of the common European security and defence policy, each Member State, including our Republic, has to make its contribution. This also includes independent national defence. I think it is an act of self-esteem that a medium-sized country like our Republic in the heart of Europe takes this core of state sovereignty seriously and continues to work on it. I believe that it is important that the Austrian federal army is able to ensure the protection of its home country, to enable assistance missions across the board, but also to comply with its international obligations. This Federal Government has made clear decisions in this regard. It said that the Security and Defence Doctrine, which was decided by the two government parties during the last legislative period, is being further developed, that the overall and partial strategies necessary for the implementation of this fundamental security and defence doctrine are being developed and that it must result in the new organisation of the federal army. The Federal Government will set up a reform commission, which will provide advice on the precise organisational structure and development of the Federal Army on the basis of the partial strategies to be developed. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals are always ready for modernisation within the framework of the organisation of the Austrian federal army; Federal Minister Scheibner has demonstrated this impressively during the three years of his office in this place. We believe that, within the framework of this Commission for Reform, in the context of the preparation of these new sub-strategies, substantial steps will be possible in order to guarantee the security of the population and to continue to be responsible in the security and defence field.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13262	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the precision. Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13286	Mr President. High house! Under the “rethinking health” aspect, this Federal Government wants to pursue an active health policy. The much used wordplay “Health is not all, but without health everything is nothing” shows what good health is for all of us, a good that it must be preserved and, above all, must also be defended. There must therefore be a rethinking in health policy. We do not only want to cure diseases, but above all we want to prevent disease from developing, and to ensure that, through a corresponding awareness of each individual, his responsibility for himself and his health is greater than he has done so before. This begins with a healthy diet, leads through the healthy exercise to regular precautionary examination. This federal government has undertaken to reward people who provide for themselves and their health. I think that many common diseases could be avoided or mitigated, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, if the screenings, such as cancer prevention, are accepted and carried out regularly. We need to be able to double the number of precautions per year through incentives – and thus ultimately save a lot of money. This is a part of the course, but as in the ice-cream race – Mrs. Prammer has already mentioned this – the duty comes before the court. And if we want to make our sick cash offices healthy, healthy service centers, then we have to take all the restructuring measures that ensure that these institutions also meet the criteria of modern management first. We need to adapt them to the principles of modern management, we need to reduce double-tracking, to use the opportunities of telemedicine and the resulting improvements for patients. Finally, we also need to do enough to demonstrate demographic development. We must succeed in converting cots where possible and where necessary into cots. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In health policy, there is a lot to be rebuilt, but fortunately, women are used to getting stuck – and I am therefore in the second area of my ministry, the women's policy. Of course, we also want to pursue an active women's policy. – I thank the previous speakers, including the opposition groups, for at least trusting me. I think we can move a lot together, because there is still a lot to do in the field of equality. The income shear is to be closed – this is a project that cannot be completed in four years! We must make sure that we do not do so when it comes to pension reform. to separate income shears for pensioners. I'm sure I'll turn a watchful eye to that. And one of the measures that we have included in the government programme contributes to this, namely the higher billing of child rearing times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The analysis of the causes of income shears is well known; we have been working on it in recent years. It is now about putting in place measures to help address the causes. This begins with the education of young girls, so that they make the right choice and get into professions that offer better income opportunities, and that we open up career opportunities for them and, above all, improve the compatibility of family and work. What I want to do is to remove women's policy from the policy of pity. I think that women's policy is not always marked by frustration. We want to act instead of regret. Frust instead of lust! – I invite you to join us.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13365	Mrs. Federal Minister! Of course, they meant “lust instead of frustration ” and not“ frustration instead of lust. ” [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister of Smoking-Kallat: Before loud hetzerei!]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: That was Freud!]] Next came Mr Pepi Pröll's speech. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13416	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: And ladies!]] Members of the Government Bank! High house! I would like to take the opportunity to thank my predecessor at the beginning of my first appearance here in plenary. In recent years, Willi Molterer has positioned Austria as a leader in Europe with its prudent, goal-oriented and efficient policy on many issues, in environmental terms and in agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We are number one in the share of bioenergy in electricity consumption. We are number one in the prevention of packaging material. We are number one in the ratio of energy consumption to economic performance. – All these are factors that you, Willi Molterer, have decisively influenced with your efficient work. This has also become possible because the EIA has always seen the eco-social path and the eco-social idea as the basis for development and has made environmental policy, create and secure jobs. What does the government have, what do I intend to do for this country in the next few years? [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: It won't take that long!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] First: The biggest challenge in the international and national environment is for sure the climate change that we have caused by man. Protection against the dangers posed by climate change must now be addressed at the root. We therefore set out in the Government Agreement to spend €90 million more on climate protection by 2006, starting from 2004, for the years 2004, 2005 and 2006 per €30 million. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That's not enough. We will also start an initiative with the federal states in order to put in place the appropriate measures in the housing sector in order to achieve the ambitious objective of climate protection. We want to further expand alternative forms of energy. This not only benefits the environment, but also benefits small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas and benefits agriculture. That is why we want to increase the share of eco electricity from 70 to 78 percent with a mix of individual measures. We want to use more biomass by 75 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] – This is an ambitious goal, but it pays off. We are taking a step that no other federal government has taken before in the context of an environmental tax reform in 2004 [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek]] We burden fossil energy sources and thus make a significant contribution to climate protection. In particular, we relieve low incomes, which are below €14 500. Often said and demanded – we are the first German government to implement this in 2004! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In his statement, the Federal Chancellor referred to one of my first activities at the Environment Council on Tuesday this week: We will already realize the desulphurisation of diesel and fuels in 2004. I will start an initiative in this area together with the oil industry in the next few days in order to make this objective possible. We want – and I have already deposited this with the EU Environment Council – that an initiative on diesel particle filters is successful in reducing the burden in this area. I would now like to address the second area of my department, agriculture. After the light shines, I can only briefly sketch it: A 3-billion-€ package to ensure Austrian agriculture – a very important goal in terms of enlargement. We want to bring about a level playing field with agricultural diesel. This is a crucial question as to whether we can obtain farmed family farms. We must give them the tools to compete with the European colleagues. These are two of the big goals, and I believe that we will be successful overall with the goal of making the future sustainable.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13505	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13527	Mr President. I have hoped that you will also be worthy of the kind speech ‘Peperl Broukal’, as did the Minister of Agriculture, but that will still be.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13545	If you grant me the privilege, I'll do it in the future, Pepperl Broukal.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13566	Minister for Agriculture! I can't say much about what you said, because that really meant dileting in an area where I don't know myself. I just hope you share the secret preference of your uncle for red-black in the heart. This would make cooperation easier. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, I'm looking forward to what you're going to do in the next few years. I still know you from the time you led the social assistance agency of the ÖVP in Vienna, and I know: In addition to all the hard, secretaries that slumber in you, there is also the permanent women's politician who does what is women's business across the borders of the parties. If we are going to extend it to social matters in general, I mean that some kind of thing has not yet been created. I'm looking forward to it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My colleague says that you should never say that, because then the wrong ones complain, and that's what's in the protocol, but I'm still very happy to say it. My topic is research and education. Mr. Vice-Chancellor has already said it today – the stands are common to all of us –: Research today brings jobs tomorrow. More research today brings more jobs tomorrow. More research keeps bright minds in the country that otherwise go abroad to get a qualified job. – We agree on this. But, unfortunately, in the statement of Government, there is bad news on this topic of the future, which concerns the concrete, namely the measures to be taken to bring us there. First: They are unable and unable to raise the money needed for more research in Austria. 2.5 percent of the national income – as stated in your government statement 2000 – has promised the Austrians for 2004. But you won't do that, and you make it easy and say: Swamm over it! 2.5 percent in 2006! – Promise instead of deeds! This has not deserved Austrian research! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They think of anyone who can count on a lot of things. 600 million more want You spend for research, but 1.5 billion would need you to achieve your own new goal. Give up now, or want to [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: That's not true!]] You just don't admit it? Federal Chancellor! It's true, but I only have 5 minutes here. If you give me the grace of a private body, I will try to show you my version of the little one-time. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Economy and universities need firm commitments, they need safety for years. And that's what you're not giving with this government statement. But I don't need to convince you. I quote the new vice-president of the Research Fund of Science – he said it today, and I suppose you have already been shown this news from the Austrian Press Agency –: “We do not demand more than the government has promised. But if this does not happen, Austria will receive a blue letter, not from the EU, but from the future.” [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Second point: They are unable and unable to put Austria's research policy on a healthy basis. Four ministries mix together, each one cooks its own soup. If you ask someone on the street: Who really is Austria's Research Minister?, do you think you will get an answer? - No one knows! Consciousness rather than politics from a cast. This too has not deserved Austrian research. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Today's not the time to start calling, you're apologizing, we'll do this the next time. Third point: You stick to the study fee, and you're deceiving all those who have difficulty saving up these 10,000 s a year. If you earn well and pay tax, you will be able to deduct the study fee from the tax, you promise in your government program. This must be broken on the tongue: Someone who doesn't deserve anything pays 10,000 S of a study fee, someone who deserves money, maybe 7 000 S or 6 000 S! Wrong world, your world! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Dear Mr. Broukal! What about the scholarships?]] Fourth point – and that is something that I personally feel very sorry for, because I cannot understand –: They also prevent the younger scientists from speaking and deciding at the universities in the next few years. They cut off a whole young generation at the universities from co-determination as they exist in any larger company. You won't be able to reintroduce this co-determination again. No one knows why you defend yourself with your hands and feet. The future is not that. By the way, you can order university councils whose publications are hair-sharping through the NS Prohibition Act, you have to make that up with yourself. It's incomprehensible to me, and I don't understand this task. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But while you have a prior understanding of people with world views, you pursue others, without much grace and without much honor. In the Ministry of the Interior, Lower Austrian states invade. While head of state Pröll says he would like the SPÖ in the government, his former secretary Strasser SPÖ-near civil servants, wherever he can, even if they do best work.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13690	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote. I didn't answer the call.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13712	Thank you very much. – In the case of the Gendarmerie general Strohmayer, the last shame limit has fallen. So that you, Federal Chancellor, cannot say, as in the case of the police general Schnabl, that you did not know, here is the corresponding report of the “Small Newspaper”.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13748	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13769	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I will not address Mr Broukal's comments, this will be done by another colleague, but I will deal with the comments made by Mr Matznetter, who has dealt very critically with the budgetary policy of this Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It's also very difficult, I think!]] Just to remember, ladies and gentlemen: Yes, there is a different budgetary policy today than in times of socialist finance ministers. If there were also a budget deficit of 5 per cent of GDP at the time of the best economic situation, there is a budget deficit of up to 0.6 per cent or 1 per cent of GDP today in difficult economic situations. This is a huge difference, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Interesting today was the appearance of the opposition. Both Van der Bellen, the clubman of the Greens, and Cap, the chief quick tongue, have complained today so to speak that there is a strange mood. It was quiet, objective, even almost disillusioning and so on, yes depressing, he said. - Yes, if I think of your appearances, I'll give you the right. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the right analysis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I can already remember that it was exciting that it was kneeling in 2000. There was a urgent request from you, a request for distrust against the government. There were massive motions for resolutions and other parliamentary “practices”. Obviously, you have convinced the work of this Federal Government. Today there is nothing to hear from all God, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Cap said that the ÖVP had missed opportunities, and he was supported by Mr Van der Bellen. Obviously, you have already forgotten the statements of your party colleagues, Haider, Ambrozy, Häupl and others, who didn't want any coalition at all. Or would you like to express it without me saying that these rulers have nothing to talk about in your party, ladies and gentlemen? I'm not going that far! Ladies and gentlemen! Obviously, you have problems with mourning due to the opportunities given. We'll leave you alone. Don't worry about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Matznetter was much more honest in his press conference yesterday. He said they were talking about a tax reform, and at the same time he complained that it would only come in 2005 because one would vote in 2006. Now I hear for months that this government had no existence, it had no chance. Obviously, he is convinced that she really keeps it. It's me, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I would, however, like to address two points: agriculture, financial compensation and rural areas. I wish the weighty Minister of Agriculture – and that not only in the truest sense of the word, but also on the basis of his competence – much success. He will urgently need this in the reform of the CAP, WTO negotiations and other things. Good luck! I am convinced that because of his competence he will be outstandingly mastering this matter in the sense of his predecessor Willi Molterer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, Austria's farmers need the opportunity to manage the opportunities to operate under the same competitive conditions within the meaning of their professional colleagues in the European Union, which are sustainable, convincing. Food needs to be produced from a quality that we all want. There must also be equal opportunities in the field of operating resources. So the first path is marked, and I thank you for that. Not only the sharpest conditions, the smallest prices are crucial, but also important is that quality may and must cost something. Ladies and gentlemen! Financial compensation, rural area. – The disadvantage of the weak communities, the downgraded population key, is a recent relic to remedy war damage. It is interesting, so a mayor of such a community wrote to me, that we can pay the same taxes in the country, whether employees, economic operators, whoever, with the same income as a city. Only when it comes to distributing incomes is one worth only more than half. – That’s not how it can last! I am therefore grateful that this government programme also makes a clear reference to this. Good luck with it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13855	Now, Mr. Dr. Green forest to us. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13873	Thank you very much, Professor and President. – I would like to make the slightly sad faces happy and say: It really fascinates me what's in this program. It offers surprises, world class, first places for Austria or at least the declaration of intent. I am very surprised when I have to read or hear, the government has to bear responsibility. – I actually thought that was the case before. Is that really new? Is that your program? Was that not included in your previous program? You said today: The government must be operational. Bumsti! I was actually expecting that. But what does your actions consist of? Has there been a debate on quality? Ms Gehrer has evaluation agencies, quality assurance agencies. You should order them for yourself, because acting alone is not enough for me. If I still read that the government doesn't precipitate people and call things by name, I have to say: Yeah, then I'll call it by name. Self-retained and private payments make up a world-class place in Austria: third place among all OECD countries! Only in the case of self-retaining third place in Europe! They will make it possible to become a world class or to get to the top of the field. What about the university? What did you promise of innovations? One percent of the gross domestic product is €2.2 billion. They want to increase it by at least one percent. By 2010, by the year 2006, late, as we have heard, that accounts for at least €1.1 billion. You're talking about 600 million, and you're right to say that the rest comes from the economy. But, please, the opposition is allowed to ask: How do you do that? We have often had consensus in the negotiations, hoarse, beautiful, pure and good consensus, no question. But every time I ask, How do we do that?, I heard the answer: There is no budget for this, we cannot guarantee that! They now set many targets by 2010. Bleckmann even begins to design sustainability by 2030. This is perhaps a hundredth of the thousandth-year empire. It takes me too long, even if it was shorter. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do you have children?]] Let's call things by name: Hitting burgers are nominated in universities, and then they defend it in a very strange way. University is called universities, and that means pluralism. It is a sign of pluralism that even striking citizens should be represented in this colorful, cheerful world. – That’s what I call diversity that leads to simplicity. That's it and nothing else. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] They quote and humble a great poet and writer, namely Saint-Exupéry, by writing: The future should not be predicted, but it must be made possible. – Yes, Federal Chancellor, I think the future is already there in two seconds, next year and so on. Imagine, this also goes without ÖVP. The future is happening, the future is coming, but which one would have interested me. But I don't read about that with you. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Then write in your government statement: “In a country where every centimetre of the status quo is filled with defensive” – we already have the “responsible” – not citizens, but “interest representatives can’t correct a merely moderate policy.” And what are you doing? – You moderate! Austria is rethinking: nine free states in the future, your health policy: nine national funds. Commenting on this, the Federal Government is preaching to the countries: Please do this and that, close a few beds, dedicated a few!, but he can't, he can't! – And that’s Austria’s new thinking. You say the brightest heads are in school, in kindergartens, you even said, in colleges and universities. I would be right if the brightest heads were to shine like a neon tube behind me and dive this room into shimmering light. That would be at least an energy saving measure. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] But I don't know anything about that either. And then in health policy, it becomes grotesque. By doubling health care, they want to reduce the number of cardiovascular diseases, cancers and strokes by a quarter. Love bright heads! Do you think you're dying of acne, locusts, or baldness? - Here I am an expert. It can't be! Ladies and gentlemen! The little prince once visited asteroids, namely 325 to 330. A planet was inhabited by a cavalry, and he said: “Ah, ah, look, look, an admirer is coming to visit!” – In me you haven’t found it yet!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13943	I call Mr Dipl.-Ing. Your Chew. If desired, the clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e13964	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Dear ladies and gentlemen! Before I deal with agriculture, please speak on Mr Broukal's comments, where I was actually thinking at the outset, there will be a sharp wind from the SPÖs. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, I would really like you to speak more often during the ORF's live broadcast, because that is certainly the guarantee that you stay on the opposition bank and we in the government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is my late morning by Mr. Klubobmann Van der Bellen something else came to mind, which I would like to repeat again here today: Mr Klubobmann, you said that the liberals were the last offer – literally: the last. Now I'm just wondering: Where are you? We're in the government, you're in opposition! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] But now on the subject of agriculture. It has been discussed many times today: Where is the blue manuscript in this government? Dear ladies and gentlemen! Especially in agriculture there is a lot of blue handwriting to read. It has already been mentioned a lot by my previous speakers: from the 3-billion package for rural areas to the strengthening of biomass. But specifically – and on it I put value, ladies and gentlemen – the implementation and introduction of the agricultural diesel is a demand that has been raised by the Freedom Party for years. Mrs Glavischnig, whom you are about to put forward, I would ask you not to play with the income of the farmers. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Yes, please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Eh not!]] I think it is very unfair for you to call into question the agricultural support and the discounted diesel for agriculture, because this will create a lot of dissatisfaction. You will certainly not lay the foundations for maintaining agriculture in its small and medium-structured form in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Why do you treat people differently?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally allow me to conclude before the light begins to flash, another sentence on the coalition negotiations. Very often today it was discussed who was negotiating with whom, how long and how intensively it was negotiated. – Well, I understand that the colleagues on the opposition bank are offended. This reminds me of a comparison, which is also made very often in connection with the Carinthian head of state, which is said to be insulted not to be in play anymore. Only one thing I can tell you: He could learn from you something more about the insulted way, because in such a way, I almost want to say, to be sorry, not to be in the government, that is not worthy of this House. [[Call the greens, what?]] I also say it – and I use the words of our Federal Party Minister – in this clarity: We, too, have long been negotiating liberals, we, too, have called into question a great deal. And especially by Carinthia – I emphasize that – many things have of course been criticized by Carinthia. But, ladies and gentlemen of the House, we have gone to this government, we stand by this government, and we will continue this reform course here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And last but not least – and I would like to say that at the end of my remarks – we are willing to rule, not least we are convinced that something will change because we have a free-for-all stone at the head of our federal government with Mr Vice-Chancellor Herbert Haupt. He is a guarantee that the reform course that has been launched will continue. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to wish you a little more cooperation, but I am looking forward to the next four years. [[Call the Greens:Lei, lei!]] Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen! I am looking forward to it, and at the end of the legislative period it may even come so far that you yourself will transfer to our valuable members of the government, especially the ladies, those flowers you missed today. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: You lost two thirds of your voters!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14105	Mrs Silhavy is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14123	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheuch, the confidence in this Federal Government will prove that you have to decide today in the form of a request for this government programme, because it is obvious to you that Your coalition partner doesn't trust you to keep up. – So much for the next four years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We stand by it! We've negotiated it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are also debating today the continuation of a failed ÖVP FPÖ government. What have we chosen at all?, many people ask me for. These people feel like you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, from your tactile tent, we are told in good Styrian. If you continue the failed coalition between FPÖ and ÖVP, this will be felt by many people as a prelude. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it is. If you see the coalition agreement between ÖVP and FPÖ on this form of government, you can see that there is a great opportunity, not a great opportunity for any party, but a great opportunity for the people of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The lack of courage for reforms was already held by the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, who is known to originate from the ÖVP camp, the black and blue government, called ‘Schüssel I’. He noted that structural reforms would be of too little importance and that you lack the courage to do so. I want to get it to the point. We have seen it at the start of this black and blue federal government: They have not managed to implement reforms for Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! They have carried out 30 tax and tax increases, thus reaching the highest tax rate in Austria. It's not a reform, it's a failure. Ladies and gentlemen! They have resorted to socially unfair and dissociated means, such as accident pension taxation, by taking away the money from the sick and removing the money from the hands of the elderly. These are not reforms, that is failure. Ladies and gentlemen! The so-called party-friendly economy you supposedly wanted to abolish has found its worst highlight in the Causa Gaugg. These are not reforms, that is failure. Ladies and gentlemen! The government programme – the explanation could almost be compared to that in 2000 – stands for the future, but it contains the way back into the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can also read, ladies and gentlemen, that you lack the courage for social and just reforms. Dramatic pension reductions through the interaction of the extension of the calculation, the increase in the discount and the abolition of the early retirement pension are the result. You want to abolish the emergency aid's insurance, ladies and gentlemen. In the last century, they have been said to do so. That's the way back to the past! The health system will not be secured, but the structures will be broken down in order to continue to carry out party-political over-actions. Ladies and gentlemen! It sounds like cynicism: Social is what creates work; that is what this programme says. I'm here with you, but I'm wondering, what work? – Three years of blue and black federal government have managed to have nearly 60 000 people in Austria who, despite full-time work, cannot live on this income. In America it is said to be working some. – This is not a proud record you can look back on, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If this is already known from a study by the Ministry of Social Affairs, then, in this government programme, there will probably be something about the fight against poverty. This issue, ladies and gentlemen, is not for you. You are obviously not interested in poor people, people who are sick, people who are old. That the diesel will be cheaper for the farmers, this is much more important to you. Ladies and gentlemen! The future needs responsibility. It's big here. Yeah, but how do you handle responsibility? How do you shoulder the responsibility of the self-maintainment you are planning? – You can shift responsibility to social security. How do you handle the responsibility at the shop opening times you wanted to change for the last time? That's what you're saying the heads of state are supposed to do. How do you take responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the future of the Austrian industry? Is this all yours? But is this not about Austrian jobs and about Austrian workers? Last but not least: What about the interceptors? Where do you take responsibility if They say: We're buying! Whoever pays, it doesn't matter, we don't have to do this to the next government!Unknown term type: "%s".? Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a forward-looking policy that you have presented to us today. This is a way into the past, which is mainly at the expense of the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14188	Mr Tancsits has now come to speak. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14206	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I would like to comment on two main social concerns of this declaration of government, which I believe make clear the future orientation of the measures. First point: Pensions. While the average lifetime working time has fallen by six years since 1970, the residence time in the pension has increased by 12 years. At the beginning of our considerations, I would like to say that these are two extremely positive facts: We are better trained and live longer because of longer qualification. I think we should address the reforms with this basic optimism. We need to deal with the positive facts when we are going to extend life-time in small steps. First of all, the so-called abolition of early retirement pension. It is not about leaving the early retirement pension until 2010 from a rigid date, but about replacing it with something else, namely by an option, after which I can go into retirement with the corresponding insurance-thematically justified deductions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] No one should tell me that this is not fairer if I have more possibilities to determine myself. And this is also the question of the keyword of the so-called personal pension account. If I offer people choices, I also need to inform them about what their retirement status is. [[Abg. Oils: Bad!]] This is a necessary measure to secure the first pillar in the charging procedure. It will always be a very important part of our pension provision. However, it will also be necessary – Professor Rürup said this when he was commissioned by the Federal Minister of Finance, Hostasch, in 1997, but the EU Commission also recommends – up to a third – I am not going that far – to work out the pension provision in the capital funding process. I think that the year 2033, to which the calculation periods are to be extended, is also a good target for the construction of such a second and third pillar. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not accept the argument that this is only for the good-earners. In a country where there are 5 million construction savings contracts, in which, precisely on the basis of the same system, there are premiums for a certain form of savings, in addition in our pension model, tax-freeness is allowed many to accept this invitation. I think that's with 1. In January 2003, the redundancies entered into force and the provisions for the future described just now will give rise to a tremendous boost to the formation of wealth in the hands of workers over the next decades, just as this caused the institutionalisation of housing property about half a century ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: What about the BUWOG apartments?]] A second point is health reform. Unlike the old age pension, which is a relatively simple final calculation, namely the division between the retirement generation, there would be too little preservation of the status quo. We must make it possible for all to take part in medical progress. In order to keep everyone in our general social and health insurance system, reforms are necessary: Rethinking self retention, reforming self retention, not the senseless division without limits, as is the case now, and structural reforms. These are social reforms, which are not intended in terms of working periods, but which are based on generations, and I know them in good hands with this Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14273	President. — The debate is closed. Kogler. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14291	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Dear colleagues! [[Abg. Grossruck: And colleagues!]] – Colleagues are included in colleagues, you still have to practice this. – The most pregnant word in this declaration of government is indeed the word ‘future’. It is quite strange that one gets the impression that the subject of the current debate, namely the people who sit behind me, has the least future of all, as far as this is concerned. I think the Cabinet Schüssel II is the least forward-looking of any form of government that would have been possible – and we should remember that at this point. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But we don't want to vote anymore, but we want to go into what we want to do. You will keep us on this occasion: They are at the heart of the reforming truth; everyone must move around and somehow be stopped to go around, and They have leased the truth of the reform. – That’s really not how it is! If you look at this so-called concept of the future, you will first and foremost see a collection of headlines. The least things are concrete, and those who are concrete are more likely to be placed in the corner of the tragedy. They want to explain to us that 18 Eurofighters cost almost no money – at least not now, later perhaps, but then already. Who's gonna pay for this? - You don't know. – So you could have ridden at Villacher Fasching. But you haven't been there because there's already a different farm. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Gusenbauer!]] Now again on the matter of budget consolidation, pension reform and the above-mentioned interception hunters. It's time for a sober summary: They have accused us of being too little of a consolidation. I now note that if I compare the so-called budgetary paths – the deficit is shown over the years – the green deficits have been proposed, which would have meant less debt for the state over the next four years than your programme. I find that remarkable! What's that about? – This is because you announce today that you will carry out a so-called major tax reduction in time before the election. You don't know if she's coming; and when she comes, the question arises whether she's running because you're increasing the deficit! They are increasing the deficit enormously! Suddenly, a tax rate has been reached in 2005 which may be better than now, but we have a budget deficit of over 1.5 percent – of more than 1.5 percent! – GDP. What was very bad before then is then suddenly quite good because elections are coming and there is a need to distribute sugars. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] Mr. Drinkl! It would be much more useful if we were to lead the term tax reform in the mouth – of course, it is fair to say that, in most cases, only more tax reduction – that we would actually take care of the reform! It is therefore about the revenue and expenditure structure in the budget. Let us stick to the income structure, i.e. the tax structure! There is essentially a little under the cover of ecologisation, but no more. It's just that in the bigger style, it's going to be reversed – quite simply: Increase energy loads and reduce labour costs. This is only suggested, but certainly this is not the big throw, at least not so big that you should lead the vocabulary of the ecological-social tax reform longer in the mouth, because it only hurts the idea. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That was a rather moderate applause!]] On pension reform: Every reasonable person will realize that it makes sense for people to get older and older, that they should also stay in working life longer. That is of course! The question is: How do we achieve that? – They have preferred to take a course without labour market accompanying measures, and we have spoken against it. On the other hand, there was consensus that we also need to make savings in the pension area. And that's the difference: In the future, they are insisting on demolating the first pillar, the public pension provision, for the sake of caution, so that all are pushed into the private sector, and it is then, although it is called private, promoted by the state. This is a content-ideological difference. You can admit that quietly, because that's the way it is. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last point is: It's just me to point out that you're buying the most expensive products by far. The Minister of Defence will have difficulty justifying this. I have the file in front of me here. Nevertheless, it is important, I believe, to inform the public of the situation. I have them here – this is my job as Chairman of the Court of Auditors before someone gets upset again that I have wrong records here.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14390	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14405	They are also available to the Court of Auditors. It is clear that these interceptors are by far the most expensive that you can only buy. And everything you tell us about counter-businesses will dissolve into air, all this is a big shame.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14435	Mr President, the motion for a resolution that you have tabled has not been tabled, and I hope that the next speaker will be brought in. I call Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14477	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I can't bring in this initiative proposal, I don't know him at all; I'm sorry! But I am always ready to debate and implement reasonable proposals with other political groups, even if they are in opposition. This declaration of government, ladies and gentlemen, is characterised by measures both in the pension area to ensure pensions in Austria and in the health sector, in order to change and guarantee the structures there, as well as in the tax field. Measures in labour market policy are also being put in place to dispel things. I would just like to point out that discharge is €500 million for Austrian taxpayers, especially in the tax field. This will benefit especially those who have to contend with minimum income. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The minimum wage of € 1 000 is to be implemented. [[Abg. Oils: You don't do that!]] I have to say that the trade unions have been sparse for a long time, and I have actually expected the trade unions to take up this ball, namely the 1 000 € minimum wage. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Do it!]] Income up to €14 500 per year should be tax-free. This is also an achievement that we have now implemented. – The liberals have had the courage to go to this government and put things into practice! They didn't have the courage. The Social Democrats were the first to be invited, the Greens were also invited, but you have left the courage. We also have a reduction in additional wage costs for older workers – women from 56, men from 58. Year of life – reached. In this area, there are now certain loopholes in unemployment insurance, accident insurance, FLAF and insolvency contributions up to 10 percent. We have also enforced a tax advantage for companies for profits not collected. The purchasing power in Austria must be strengthened, because when the purchasing power is strengthened, everyone has more in the wallet and can also afford more. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On health, ladies and gentlemen: As we have already heard, it is a lot of pity. Mrs Silhavy! You said we lack the courage to renew. – We have the courage to renew! We have the courage to renew, we are not missing! We do not tear down structures, but we structure things around where they go in the wrong direction, where there are systems that favour one another and the other are disadvantaged. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Where?]] We are seeking to clarify health, especially in the health insurance sector. We want a harmonisation of the various health insurance schemes. We have a lot of restraints in Austria, which have also been introduced under socialist leadership, among socialist German Chancellors, Social Ministers! If I were to list all of them, my speaking time would be too short for that, not at all! But we want harmonisation! We want a merger of the accident insurance institution, health insurance in the area of health care and in all social insurance sectors. We want equality for all, harmonisation of the computer systems and so on and so on. It will also continue the equality of workers and employees by reducing workers' contributions to health insurance, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you complain here, there should be self retention, I can only play the ball back: We have found a very salomonic solution, and the social security institutions are to draw up proposals. This is a self-support, and a self-employment must organize itself once and also provide for revenue or save itself, with their pension privileges and so on and so on. There belongs to saved ones, and the citizens are relieved! These Austrian citizens are relieved! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Very briefly on labour market policy: Mr Kogler! We want to put in place appropriate measures to enable older and younger workers in Austria in particular to be informed quickly and efficiently. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] To pension: We have maintained in the negotiations that early retirement pension for unemployment exists by means of a looping scheme by 2010 and will not be abolished from today to tomorrow. The “hackler rule” was also always a free issue. We are proud that those who have acquired long periods of insurance can continue to retire at 60 years of age if they have 45 years of insurance. The age transition allowance is also something that helps these people. We are particularly proud, ladies and gentlemen, that the continuation of the disability billions is ensured.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14570	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. I'll give him the word. – The speaking times remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14589	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me take a brief look at what the Federal Chancellor today gave of himself in his statement of government. He said at the outset that this government is in favour of a policy called things by name. Following this came a list of the difficult problems that are currently facing: the lavish situation in the Middle East, the Iraq problem and similar things more. Federal Chancellor! In the Coalition Pact you did not have the courage to mention these questions with only one word! - That's what I'm saying. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Second, write In the next paragraph – and you have presented this to us here as well – you would have deliberately avoided putting us on the side of any group. – Mr Bundeskanzler! Mrs. Foreign Minister! You have deliberately avoided even taking a position before it is clear who has won. That's what we're criticising! That's not a policy, it's just a co-runner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You will write on the next pages that you would give even greater importance to the growth factors of education, research, technology and infrastructure and set priorities. In order to achieve this, you have to take back the 2003 target of 2.5 percent research rate – and you only want to achieve it in 2006! But you also invest too little money for this, as you have been predicted today. Federal Chancellor! Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat! They write in the paper “Future Needs: Responsibility” of the compatibility of family and profession, which you want to improve, does not, however, provide any measure in your program. Where are the measures to facilitate working women to be employed and also to have a child, or to allow working men to unite both, Mr Bundeskanzler? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Can't you read?]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Children's money!]] [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] They also promise that in 2010 the tax rate will fall to 40 percent for all Austrians. – Mr Bundeskanzler! Today no one is interested in promises beyond the legislative period. Besides, you haven't kept this promise for the last time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You write that you want to be an active, equal member in this Europe, who will co-form the future of Europe. Where are the proposals you make? – Mrs Federal Minister! Federal Chancellor! The proposals are missing. What you think is the defence function for the German-speaking and Ladin minority in South Tyrol and similar things. They write about traffic traffic and about the need for European solutions. – Yes, it also needs European solutions. But have you developed or even realized proposals in the past legislative period in which the Austrian possibilities would have been exploited? Where are the Austrian solutions that could also have significantly increased our credibility in Europe and the willingness of our partners in the European Union to meet Austria in its wishes? If we do not do something ourselves in those areas that we can solve ourselves, we do not have to expect too much from the partners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] With regard to Federal Minister Strasser, Austria should continue to be one of the safest countries in the future, and for this to happen, stands a well-motivated executive. – Minister of State Strasser! With the way you've been “embracing” in the Ministry of the Interior in the last three years, you won't find a motivated executive; you'll find an executive who fears, but not one who's motivated. That's not what we need, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You are right to say that, in order to counter negative trends, it would be necessary to pursue an active employment policy and that your response to labour market problems would be “qualification”. Federal Minister Bartenstein! I don't see him right now. In the previous legislative period, almost two years ago, we proposed to you that, in connection with the enlargement of the European Union, an active qualification policy be implemented for Austrian workers in order to ensure that possible risks of enlargement of the European Union do not become effective. What did you do about it? – You have not implemented anything in this respect in the past period, as you have also had to admit in writing and in response to a request. Let me finish. You have announced something more for research, you have announced something to many areas. Last but not least, you have also claimed: “We have ended with the old debt policy.” – May I ask the Minister of Finance, the Secretary of State, to which Mr Bundeskanzler asked how high the debt was at the end of 1999? And how high were the debt at the end of 2002? I can assume that it is true that the debt was higher at the end of 2002 than at the end of 1999!Unknown term type: "%s".? You have not ended the debt policy, but at the same time you have not led Austria into a future – but the same promises are now delivered again! They're just as plausible.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14702	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14720	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, it has not been mentioned many times, but as a judicial committee chairman, allow me to say a few words about the judicial chapter. In the present Government Convention, the judicial chapter is the most extensive I have so far contributed to in a government agreement. After all, it is now the fifth government agreement that I am carrying as an “ÖVP teacher” in terms of justice, three of which were still in the great coalition with the SPÖ at that time. Together with the SPÖ, no special attention has been paid to the judicial chapter. This has changed immediately with the liberal partner. As Chairman of the Committee, I am very glad to be able to say that we are presenting a very ambitious programme in this regard. We from the EIA are very satisfied with the pace of reform, the scope of reform and the desire to reform in the field of justice. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! We invite you to cooperate constructively in these reforms. During the course of the legislative period, your cooperation in the field of justice was rather marked by aggressive attacks. Ideological divisions, as they often appear in judicial policy, can be overcome by a little bit of good will – I say: of course by both sides – but only if constructively and for the sake of human beings and physical work is worked together. Walls, prevents at all costs, polemize, or even the argument “reform yes, but not right now and not so fast” that would not be constructive for me, no strategy, but just fundamental opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Modern justice must be understood as a service to the citizen. In this sense, I believe, we can meet, namely, all of us here in this House. Parties. If one proceeds in this sense, then we will find similarities – and we will also seek them with the opposition. As President of the Justice Committee, I will, of course, try to reach consensus and promote an objective discussion environment – despite political differences and the ideologically different views that have always been expressed in the field of justice. Whoever has read the chapter on justice – I forgive you if you have not done so – will not be forgotten that legalistic projects are now being prepared more through scientific studies. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! They cannot weigh themselves in the hope that this would be a first-class funeral, but these studies we will be quite ambitiously moving forward. For example, a study to examine the extent to which spouses can be protected from overpreparation in divorce proceedings – with a subsequent parliamentary survey. I promise a lot of it, because after all, divorce is the poverty trap number one. If we can come up with better solutions here, this will help us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Consumer protection and its basic form of organisation with the involvement of all professional groups or socially relevant groups – with the aim of ensuring effective consumer protection for citizens – will also be developed in a study, followed by action. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You see, we have a lot to do in the field of justice. I think the chapter is ambitious, modern and creative. Minister Böhmdorfer! Thank you for Her already given assurance – he is now no longer present – that the dialogue climate will continue to improve with the opposition and that the opposition will be discussed with the opposition before the judicial committee, as we have always used it. For a constructive cooperation I am available at any time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14796	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14815	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! Mr Sozialminister. I have, of course, looked at the chapter on people with disabilities – that was to be anticipated. I am really surprised, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, how little remains of what we have done together. [[Federal Minister for Smoking: Everything! 1 : 1!]] It's broken down to the inconspicuousness. I am so glad that last week we adopted this motion for a resolution, this four-party motion for a federal law on equal treatment in this House. Because your government programme does not even say that discrimination can also be sued. Even that's outside. The area of care money, which we have really discussed a lot, is completely missing. There's no longer any such thing – get rid of it, Minister! It was you who said a few weeks ago: If I return to the Social Minister, the care allowance will be increased by 2%. – Minister! Look at it. The term "care allowance" can no longer be found here. But I want to support you. It may have been forgotten in the hustle and bustle of conversations. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister! I already handed him over to the Bureau. I'll give you the copy so you can remember what you promised us. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! I don't know what happened, either textual passages were lost, which nobody noticed, or they actually didn't want that in the program anymore. [[Federal Minister for Smoking: The same text!]] Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! It was they who even brought in the sentence: All public institutions funded and financed by the federal government will be made accessible free of charge in the case of new buildings, renovations and renovations. This also applies to public transport. The federal government commits itself to the barrier-free construction et cetera et cetera. Now there's something else inside. In today's speech by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, nothing has left at all. It is only more about the personal environment being barrier-free. – Do you think I'm going to be told by someone that I might have to take a step in front of the bed?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am already making my personal environment accessible. But it's not about my personal environment, it's just about the social environment that needs to be accessible. In this regard, we have agreed that there will no longer be funding from the Federation if accessibility is not guaranteed. There's nothing left in your government program now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] For legal recognition of sign language: Do you know what that means now? . I also talked to my disabled colleagues in your group about this, because we both simply do not know what is meant by it. And it is quite concrete – please listen! –: ‘Improving the conditions for sign and voice language’. Does this mean that the non-obedient population is now receiving rhetorical courses, or do you really think that you should teach deaf people the voice because they do not hear each other because they are deaf? - I don't know what that means. But in any case, Franz-Joseph Huainigg and I did not understand what was meant. Maybe sometime we'll get some sort of reconnaissance. I would like to say something about civil service very quickly because Mr Strasser is sitting here. – Minister! I've been quite happy that They were so overwhelmed by my calculations of civil service. I have told you that civil service, which is in the interests of the institutions, civil servants and the federal government, could be financed by the same means as you now spend. I've called you a few big chunks, where you've "golded" clubs. You said, let me come to the agreement immediately, we need to look at it, something can't be right. – Today I read in the newspaper, this very contract has now been extended to an indefinite period of time. I'm really wondering if I've done employment therapy, because you've already forgotten that, I can hardly imagine, but I assume you've just done a little game. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Also tricked!]] I personally regret that. I am really sorry because in the civil service sector, and I would have helped you because you asked me to do so at the time, we could have worked out a concept that would have been in the interest of all three groups involved.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14905	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14920	The fact that you have now extended your “golden treasure box” to an indefinite period of time is your own chapter. But I think we need to talk about it separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14950	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Haidlmayr on the valorization of the care allowance has been duly signed, stands for negotiation and at the end of the sitting for the vote. The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e14972	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Silhavy! [[Abg. Scheibner: It's not there!]] She's not here. Mrs Haidlmayr, if you are so kind and listen very briefly: Our Federal Minister and current Deputy Chancellor Herbert Haupt, of course, has determined the continuation of the disability billions and also the recognition of the sign language in the Government Convention. I can report from my former resort, namely the tourist resort, – I promised you – that there is an Austrian-wide survey of tourist facilities, hotel facilities and restaurants that will find their rainfall in their own catalogue, in a travel catalogue. I signed a week ago that this catalogue will be placed on the Internet. It is soon to be seen in the year of people with disabilities for Austria and will be on the homepage of Austria advertising. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think it is an important signal to invite people who are limited in their movement to make the holiday as pleasant as possible and to Austria. Mrs Silhavy is not here. Mr Ein! If it is said again and again that the tax and tax rate should be the highest, I would remind you that the Social Democratic Group has also always been with us, that we are finally introducing the interest rate of the tax debt and thus also the tax debt. You know very well that the tax rate of 45.6 percent – once in 2001 – is due to the interest rate of the tax debt. If you look at this graph of how the tax debt goes, you see that we are already at the level of the Social Democrats in 1997 in 2002 and we are striving for the lowest tax burden ever since your red socialist financial policy. [[the speaker holds a graphic in height]] We are the first to do this again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] - I'll give you the graphics later. Also interesting, because you have always been estimated at the lowest education and science budget that ever existed, talk alone from 1998 to now more than € 1 billion in the budget, from 1997 to now there are over € 2 billion more. [[the speaker subsequently keeps further graphics up to date]] - I'll give you this graphics, too. When it comes to research – detto! This figure speaks for itself: an increase of more than half a billion € alone from 1997 to 2002, with the highest increase in the last two years. The same applies to the infrastructure. Of course, there can never be enough money for that. We know that, and this government has always been ready to invest in the infrastructure. – I will also give you this graphics. Today, it has often been said that competences and responsibilities are being postponed. I would like to say the following: The fact that the regulation of shop opening times should be left to the national leaders in detail in the future is by no means a shift from responsibility, but simply the creation of acceptable solutions on a regional basis. Where else are the respective competences better lifted than the national leaders? Above all, this is also living federalism. Also in the discussion on the abolition of ambulance fees and the health certificate fee, it is not a question of rescheduling responsibility, but of finally exploiting the potential for savings, especially in the national administrations. I want to add that before you think about self-holding, you should think on the red half of the empire about removing the grain. – I say this as a Styrian Member, saying: Steirische Landeskrankenkasse. There's a lot to do there, and I'll have an eye on what it looks like in that administration body. [[As a result, the Court of First Instance has held that the Court of First Instance has failed to fulfil its obligations under the law of the Court of First Instance of the ……]] We will keep reminding you: 16 largely non-social self-retainers with more than 80 percent were introduced under socialist government – under a socialist finance minister, socialist Federal Chancellor and socialist Social Minister. We will abolish the health certificate fee and, of course, also the ambulance fee; this was no fame sheet, which we readily admit. We will abolish the health certificate fee, and we will remind you that you have introduced more than 16 self-holds in your government time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15042	The next speaker was Mr Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15061	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Those who have to study and assess the external aspects of this declaration of government have little work to do, because if I look away from the Iraq question and the issues related to the EU, there is no longer much foreign policy in it. I'll say the same thing: The few are not really controversial. You can say almost everything – of course! – and yet one is not satisfied, because the priorities that would stop, the positions that would be necessary, are not included. In the field of foreign policy, too, this declaration of government has been given a great opportunity, ladies and gentlemen: No word to the UN, no word to the International Criminal Court, no clear, detailed signal for our neighbours, only the general formulations that reconciliation is necessary in the Austro-Czech relationship and that the model solutions as for South Tyrol should be maintained – whatever that may mean in detail! A half-hearted positioning in the EU, and not a word about the Balkans! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Minister himself was aware of this, and that is why in her contribution she has brought those six points which are certainly acceptable. However, the necessary clarity was not created in it either. Regional partnership for full development – yes, of course! But what does that mean in detail? What's that supposed to be? Rethinking Europe – agreeing, a yes to that! What position will Austria take? Future approach – of course! But what does that mean in detail? Addressing South-East Europe – there have been detailed points that have been made. I would have liked to have a kind word to the new State of Serbia and Montenegro and our task in this regard, but otherwise everything is acceptable. [[Federal Minister Dr. Ferrero-Waldner: Gerne!]] Fighting poverty and development policy, issues which are also included in the declaration. - Agreed! Well, if more happens here, well if private ones are used. But what's that supposed to mean? Will this be a privatisation of development policy? Will you, Mrs. Minister, travel to the Minister of Finance? What's that supposed to mean for all the organizations that work here? It is not the case that we want to maintain association, but it is necessary that development policy is sold positively in our Republic. There should be details on all these issues – but they are not included in this declaration of government. As mentioned above, the EU chapter begins with the promotion of the concerns of the old Austrian minorities abroad and the spread of the German language. - Agreed! However, we should perhaps clarify what we mean by the term “old Austrian minority”. We have tried to clarify this in relation to Slovenia, but I think it would be necessary to clarify it in general. - On the one hand. On the other hand, it has already been addressed, and I would like to add: No kind word about the foreign-speaking minorities in their own country! That's also the wrong signal. The Federal Chancellor spoke of a common line in the Iraq question. This common line is based on a request from the EIA, which wants the full decision of the Security Council. We have reached agreement on almost all points, just not on the question of the interception hunters. The common line is now to be created in the form that we also swallow the catchers. – That is unfair, and therefore we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you are honest with the common position, you must accept our request, which does not contain the interceptors, and not your own request.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15137	The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Schieder, may. Lunacek and colleagues on Iraq's crisis, based on the unanimous recommendations of the National Security Council of the Republic of Austria, are duly signed, is under negotiation and will be voted. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15158	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I think the mood is particularly not felt by some SPÖ speakers, because a few of today's words were real Kasperliads – Kasperliads that are not at our heart! We have a vision for Austria, and I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for his current government statement, in which this has also been expressed, namely a vision in which jokes and Kasperliads have no place. [[Abg. Parnigoni: A horror vision!]] We are all looking forward together to the implementation of the many work that is waiting for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As far as infrastructure is concerned, I must say that I am pleased that very important things have been said both in the government programme and today's declaration of government. On the one hand: The priority of rail infrastructure development will continue to be maintained. Those projects that concern the most important European rail links, whether it be the link between our East and the new EU neighbouring states, whether it be the Brenner transversals, will be expanded in the rail sector. However, we do not want to follow either the principle or the principle, but the both as well, and will also bring about the loophole in the motorway network. Of course, it is particularly important to me that the construction of the Brenner Base Tunnel should also be decided during this legislative period and that accompanying measures to reduce, for example, the transit contract, but also accompanying measures, which are particularly important in the sense of ecologizing our transport, are explicitly mentioned and implemented. The first thing here is the principle of a new road cost directive with cost-effective corridors, as we have essentially invented them, and cross-financing of the railway infrastructure by means of road tolls. [[Abg. Parnigoni: I support that too! But they will not be able to prevail!]] However, infrastructure efforts continue naturally. It is particularly important to achieve more efficient infrastructure even in the telecommunications sector. The E-Europe 2002 Action Plan has already expired and the final report is under way. At the time, the target was: Internet for everyone. – We in Austria have done the homework: As one of the few countries in Europe, we actually have the Internet in all schools, according to the latest statistics in all companies, and most Austrians have access to the Internet. This phase is complete, and it is now necessary to create economic successes from these possibilities. We need a high-performance broadband infrastructure to do this. We will make these available, not by subsidising each individual's connection, but by providing incentives for the competition of this broadband – for which there are now many possibilities, including wireless lan – to be made available in remote areas. This is of enormous importance for the economic development of this country. [[Abg. Parnigoni: I support that too!]] Why? – Today, our small and medium-sized enterprises carry the economic development of Austria, employ most employees, and increases in value added and increase in the number of employees are almost without exception there. This always happens when these companies are innovative. [[Abg. Eder: (in the direction of Abg. Parnigoni) Does the Kukacka know what she says?]] That is why it is also particularly important – as we also plan to do – to further increase the research rate. Something you might not know: We already have a very high public research rate in Austria. The private sector is lagging behind, but also in this private sector, it has succeeded in creating an added value through the use of public research funds, namely that companies also invest €2.3 per euro spent by public authorities in research. On this path we want to continue – for a healthy Austria with people in full employment, with a vision for the future. We have a lot of fun and joy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15265	As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15283	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Hakl – who still has to congratulate all the members of the government present – spoke of Kasperliad here! – Many words do not yet make a concept, and your inconsistency has been brought to paper today, in word and image, and in part also in the original tone. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's declaration of government begins with a significant sentence, which has already been put into the mouth several times today, in order to somehow crush it to put it on the scale, namely with the sentence: “This government stands for a policy that does not predominate people, but for a policy that truly calls things by name.” Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Wittauer: Right! Wonderful!]] A sentence as entry into a government bowl II. – Why, I asked myself, this sentence is at the beginning of a new government, which is like the old one, even though new minds, new faces are sitting here on the government bank today. What does he mean? Has the last government done something to speed people up, ladies and gentlemen, or is it to calm down a bad conscience? Three months you have needed, Mr Bundeskanzler, who you are not here to see that you want to continue this form of politics! Or, ladies and gentlemen, should this sentence put a veil on fundamental questions? What's behind these things? We do not share your view of things, because it is ultimately not about things, but about people, about the goals and goals behind these things. That is why a new reform course, in a new policy in Austria, was used to get out of a dead end. But this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, has not been used by Federal Chancellor Schüssel. There were two alternative options – you could have used them, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You have not been able to use them because your concepts are too short because your visions in many areas are based on lip confessions. I would like once again to draw on some aspects of the agricultural and environmental protection sector. Federal Minister Pröll, the new Minister, has made a few comments here in the near future, but I refer to the text of the Government Declaration. Here we find such significant sentences as: The agricultural sector in Austria has been “nearly and environmentally sustainable”. Ladies and gentlemen! That's your view of things. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Not at all!]] Our view of things is very different: Of course, environmental protection and agriculture belong together, but not in a department, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] For three years we have tried to clarify to you, Mr Grillitsch, that these two areas should not be summarized in one department. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] I will also make it clear to you why, Mr Pröll. – Because there is a very clear conflict of interest in the area of pesticides, for example in the application of sewage sludge or also in the approval of agricultural diesel. You can't be a minister of the environment for the use of sewage sludge. They cannot, however, be for the simplified use of environmentally harmful equipment such as pesticides. You cannot be in favour of simplified authorisation procedures, Mr Umwelt Pröll! – But as an agriculture minister you can be for it! There is a clear conflict of interest in this respect. That was the case at your time, Mr Molterer. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr. Pirklhuber!]] This conflict situation has not changed. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Oja!]] You didn't realize the chance to start a new start. They didn't use it. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Oja!]] – You are, personally; we are now colleagues in the same house! But Mr Pröll has the problem of taking over your mortgage, namely the mortgage, the interests of agriculture and the environment. You will still have enough problems, Minister Pröll! Today, they have not even mentioned the word “animal protection”, the word “bio-agricultural” or an opinion on the free genetic engineering zone of Austria. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Oh, number one!]] They did not talk about it, nor did they say a word about agricultural reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] – Of course, Mr Grillitsch! If you start spreading untruths here again by saying that the greens would not have been for the 3-billion-€ package for agriculture, then I must say to you: We said: Yes, if there is an ecological realignment when it comes to an agricultural turnaround in Austria, when we finally get rid of the lip confessions and actually start an ecological offensive! Ladies and gentlemen! In this area, however, you are not prepared to represent the interests of the Austrian population. Today's declaration of government makes it quite clear – and I am about to conclude, Mr President – that you want to implement the EU Bio-Patent Directive. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] – No patent on life, ladies and gentlemen, that is our answer to it! We will work for it, we will fight for an ecological, social reform policy in this House, and we will see how far you are ready to take up our ideas.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15444	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15462	Mr President. Dear members of the government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is important for Austria that – as in the past legislative period – the liberal manuscript is not only implemented in the new legislative period, but also visible in the future. I would like to make a few personal comments. I would like to thank Mathia's Minister of Transport Mathias Reichhold, who is very much in favour of supporting the Tyrolean people in the fight against transitlawins with persistence and consistency with the EU. That deserves applause and our highest recognition. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Unlike the Tyrolean head of state, who wants to deceive the Tyrolean population without any background, only Mathias Reichhold has not been afraid to show a flag in the EU at all levels. And this flag was not the white cloth of the capitulation, but the red and white-red flag in the sense of Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For the Tyroleans, it is important to have a conscientious and reliable minister in the government, who understands the concerns of the people in the transport problem and does not leave them in the rain, as was the case with socialist transport ministers in the past. [[Abg. Reheis: What have you done in the last three years?]] I would remind you that it was the socialist transport ministers who had never taken responsibility for the transit agreement. There are two names for this betrayal: Strings and climate. I also remember that the Tyrolean ex-land captain Weingartner said at the groundbreaking ceremony of the Unterinntaltrasse: At that time, during the negotiations on the transit agreement, wrong figures were worked, with wrong figures. – Of course, the Socialists were also involved in these negotiations. There, too, the population of Sand was scattered into the eyes! And the truth is: Free movement ministers must not only work up this difficult and inconvenient heritage, but in the future achieve something positive for people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Nevertheless, it has been possible to achieve results in a short time: the creation of the general transport plan; the construction of the Unterinntaltrasse, which in the shortest possible time with the construction of the Brenner base tunnel, is intended to allow for a partial shift of traffic from road to rail. [[Abg. Reheis: You don't exchange a good minister!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Four ministers in three years!]] What can we do in this difficult situation today? – The 108 percent clause died; we all know that. [[Abg. May. Worm: Your fault!]] The Ecopoints Regulation will expire. This will not change the commitment of all parties either. [[Abg. May. Worm: Your fault!]] What we need is a transitional arrangement up to the in-force pace of the new EU Road Costs Directive, which takes into account our interests. Especially through a FPÖ Transport Minister, the representation of the interests of Austria is guaranteed. For politicians across all other parties, Europe seems to be at the centre of its political existence with the enlargement of the East. They occasionally forget that they were elected by Austrian citizens to represent and protect the interests of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We will continue to need national measures such as the sectoral and general ban on night-trafficking for trucks, in order to at least brake traffic blinds. Weekend and holiday bans will continue during our government participation in the future. The IG air will be noveled by us. In this respect, it must be an objective not only to achieve a process acceleration and an increase in efficiency, but also to take legal action ensuring that, in the event of a risk of damage to health by exceeding the maximum level of action, immediate action is to be taken. Perhaps this is the prerequisite for our EU partners to discuss a solution with us seriously. In such a sensitive habitat as the Tyrolean Alps, one knows how important it is to set environmental standards in transport policy. The concept of eco-sensitive zones, as we noted last year in the adoption of the Alpine Convention, must be the benchmark to ensure ecological development. Our habitat needs to be protected. This includes a truck toll dependent on driving performance, as well as an alternative transport infrastructure such as the rail where cross-financing needs to be achieved. It should not just be a keyword to redirect traffic from road to rail. Ladies and gentlemen! At this point, I would like to point out once again that it was SPÖ Transport Ministers who left us behind in transit traffic. Only through a free government participation has there been a quality offensive in the development of the rails and in various other areas. Especially about our Minister for Transport Reichhold, there has actually been this increase in quality. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I could talk about the transit for hours now...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15585	That is what I am against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15607	I would like to ask you to support our transport minister Gorbach in the future so that we can work together to find a solution on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15637	Mrs Mag. Worm. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15655	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! High house! My previous speaker, the Tyrolean Klaus Wittauer, has now lost many words on transit and traffic congestion that really plagues us in Tyrol. So much was not to be heard by the Federal Chancellor of this Republic. As the last one from the series of transport ministers, Mr Mathias Reichhold, was repeatedly mentioned, I must say: I don't want to agree on the good intention. But one thing I can say: It has been of no use to the Tyroleans and Tyroleans! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Pepper: That's right!]] But now I would generally like to comment on what this government has brought to the Austrians, what we have read about it in the Government statement. The cabinet bowl II – I feel it this way – can be combined with a sentence by reading the projects: From the rain to the grape! It is almost incredible how perfect a wrong start has taken place, which abdominal area this government has already put in the beginning. No newspaper in Austria – not even the liberal leaves – finds praise for the reprint of black and blue. Negative criticisms far and wide, where the eye looks. By the way, the survey values are also in the basement. This weightless and faceless government in Europe wants to continue – and I almost feel this as a threat – the way it has gone so far. For example, this path has led to a great impoverishment of many Austrians. The poverty study, the study commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs, has already been quoted today. It could be read that many Austrians have already reached or already fall below the poverty line. That can't be a good policy! What you subordinated to this idol “zero deficit” was the so-called budget consolidation. And you only achieved this fiscal consolidation on the revenue side – there was nothing to be seen on the expenditure side. Now, if the Federal Chancellor and his Finance Minister here once again explain that there is now the biggest tax reform that Austria has ever seen, then I must say that we have heard that before. It seems familiar to us. That's something we can or can't believe. Perhaps a tax reform is coming – so far it has always been promised, so far, announcements have been made, not more. Why, then, has this federal government been reformed at all? Why has it been re-elected? – This is what the Austrians are asking themselves. Why has so much money been spent when I turn around, actually almost the same faces on the government bank and the same policy is being made? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Yeah, the power ratios are a little different now. The FPÖ is a bit decimated. But what does this bring to the Austrians? – This is the question, and this is the problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: No artificial excitement!]] What this Federal Government has shown in the last two and a half years – now it has been three years – was the following: They from the government coalition were world champions in coloring – in overcoloring in various post positions. I only remember Mr Strasser, who, in the Ministry of the Interior, truly had a terrible regime! Maybe he was even your model. There, under the title of structural reform, restructurings, wakeroom concept and as all that has been said, a humane personnel policy was actually pursued. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Pepper: Yes!]] One of the most competent officials in the ministry, Mr. General Strohmeyer, has done what a senior official has to do. He explained that if we continue to save, then the security of the people in Austria is in danger. I can't answer that anymore. – But the Minister of the Interior disagrees only once, and then one is no longer general, but an airport politician. That is a despicable thing, an attack on freedom of expression! It can't go on like this!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15751	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15770	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Before the turn of the year, we were able to see the large red container next to the Burgtheater, and it was called a strong, dynamic party. After the turn of the year I was back in Vienna and passed the Löwelstraße at the SPÖ-Zentrale. A small white bus stood in front of the Löwelstraße, with a large transparency. The wording read as follows: So that we don't go there – to the opposition, SPÖ. Singing of the socialist International permitted. [[Abg. May. Worm: We have set him up for the refugees!]] Can you remember? For a whole week, this bus has been standing in front of your house. Mrs Bures! What did you think about it? – At that time I thought: This is a good basis for the new government! – And we now have a new government with a good base, and you are not there. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: ridiculous!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have a new government – a government that has really recognized the signs of time, a government that will actively and forward-looking the upcoming tasks. I'm from the countryside. I am very glad that we will deal with this government and this programme with the really important tasks for the future. They will experience with joy how this government will spray future optimism and joy of life. We're going to make some new choices. We will, for example, use renewable energy sources. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Here I am!]] We're going to make greater use of solar energy. We will continue to increase food safety. We will improve the quality of life. And you will experience that at a time when international agricultural trade is increasingly seeking to become stronger, Austrians will appreciate Austrian products more and more because they know that quality is only safe when it comes from Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All of this has to be developed by this government – based on a good foundation on which we stand. Allow me to say thank you here and today to our clubman Willi Molterer. As a farmer, I would like to thank him for always being able to assist us and guide us properly during the difficult period of EU adjustment. I thank him for representing us in Europe with strength and Elan. And I would like to thank you for the Austrian influence on European agricultural policy, which has benefited Europe as a whole. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber and Mag. Kogler: Thanks, Molterer!]] We have a new minister, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll. [[Abg. May. Gäßner: Thank you!]] [[Further calls and ironic cheerfulness at SPÖ:Thank you]] He's for me a man who deserves trust. He is for me the guarantee that the good Austrian way will continue. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Can you rent him?]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Dr. Cap! You need me here and there, because you often go out of juice. But it won't help you, you won't even get me for your birthday. We Austrian farmers are convinced that with our Josef Pröll we have a strong, good minister, and above all one who knows what it is about, one who has the power to implement visions and who has the farmers behind him. This is something Mr Pirklhuber would like: 1.3% of the population were made up of individuals and 1.3% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. You know, you better leave it, don't you? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The Pröll is certainly more reasonable than the bowl!]] In any case, we know that we are on the right track in Austria and that with the current government we have a team that has a long time ahead and will implement important projects, a government that will finally bring us the agricultural diesel. I'm telling you why this is so important. My district alone Gänserndorf must sell more wheat on the same land by 20 000 tonnes than a Hungarian farm in this size, because we have to buy diesel more expensive than the Hungarian farmers. The competitive disadvantage of diesel alone is worth 20 000 tonnes of cereals in my district. That is why it is so important for us. You can understand that for sure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Rural regions will be strengthened by the promotion of €3 billion in their viability. We will be able to strengthen the optimism of young farmers, rural families and all people in the countryside. We know that with a positive climate in the rural regions, we can help people to use their strength combined with good training in the country. The land will blossom, the spring will come, the farmers will show you how they will make the land blossom, and you will see how this government will make the land blossom!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15950	Next speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e15968	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, I have seen the declaration of government as similar to that of Mr Pirklhuber. I have been right, namely, the word or sentence used by the Federal Chancellor, namely, the expression “say what is.” – This is my favorite expression. This has also surprised me so much because Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel, as I believe, will go into history rather than the great silencer. I thought his motto was: “Redness is silver, silence is gold.” – I know this saying so well because he was hanging in my grandmother’s kitchen. By the way, she has not adhered to this saying, and she has given me many sparkling ways of life, including the following wisdom of life: “Say what is, for that is revolutionary enough!” [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I like the fact that just before me, a colleague spoke about the ÖVP, who is so well aware of this very special language of the peasantry. On the one hand: Ho ruck, it's all so great, and on the other hand: We're so bad! This is a special speciality of the farmland, namely always to insinuate, according to the saying: The innkeepers already put on the little children too small shoes so that they learn to cry very early. – This seems similar to me in the Farmers' Federation: On the one hand, one learns at times to cry, but at the same time one always has to point out how beautiful we have it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The image of Alexander Van der Bellen from the shipwreck is wonderful. It has also been taken up by many. This shows that it is also very striking. And the interesting thing is that “shearing” comes etymologically from the word “fringing of ships”, that is,“ going into failure. ” And “saying what is” means saying, “What is it? ” This previous government has failed. That wouldn't be bad yet, because you can fail once. Failure is a part of life. It is only bad if one does not invent the causes of failure and simply pretend to have failed. This leads directly to the disaster. I have not seen Mrs Bleckmann's image, namely the image of a steam ship, but rather the image of the oil tanker in front of Galicia, a ship that has been put back on the sea against better knowledge, which has caused a terrible environmental disaster. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't know what disaster is happening to us, but I have a very, very bad feeling. I've already asked myself the question: What do I do when I get an all too dry mouth when I talk? – that’s a certain problem – and I thought: I'm talking about water and GATS. This is also an exciting topic. We have this year the year of water and shortly, on 22nd. March, the day of water. We hear again and again that the water in Austria is practically sanctified, that it is not meant to liberalize something in this area, and that we want to keep it that way in the WTO. However, we hear about Mag. Molterer and also the Secretary General of the Industrial Association Fritz a very clearly opposed message, namely that one is thinking of centralizing water supply in Austria, drawing it together to ten large units and thus very well functioning decentralised small units to crush water cooperatives. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's just wrong! Mrs Collaborative, that is not true!]] Saying what is also means talking about the question: Why are there such difficulties with GATS? – This was the opinion of the European Commission's Ministry of Economic Affairs Peter Carl last week: This is linked to the fact that the formulations are too technical on the one hand, and on the other hand, the critics of globalisation are guilty of the abyss that opens up between the rulers and the population. That's another story I think of: Job, look down! – The bad message is linked to the one who conveys it. So you should be careful not to be the Job. Now I wanted to say something to Mrs. Rauch-Kallat’s Freud’s promise – this one will really go into history! [[Call the ÖVP: Go!]] I would like to conclude by quoting my grandmother's wisdom of life, which I rejected. She always said: The man is the head and the woman is the neck – and the head has to turn where the neck turns it. - But I mean: I don't want to be a neck, I want to be a head too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16058	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16076	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! The sentence that this government does not predominate people, but rather calls things by name, is a very good sentence, and he has been quoted very often. He is also good because in the past this has not kept every government that way. If it were so, then in the last decade one would not have sent “pensionist letters” in the course of election campaigns, but would have started the pension reform – which would have been necessary at the time. The fact that this government is serious about this principle cannot be doubted, and it does so with regard to the pension system. There is a need for this to be really addressed with seriousness. I miss that a little at the opposition. Every government should have done this now! On the one hand, some seem to lack insight in this regard, and others, when addressing this question, show a very great ease. If I listen to Clubobmann Dr. Cap, I have to say: Although his remarks are very amusing and also of a great annoquent ease – 25 years ago I would certainly have enjoyed this in the course of an ÖH election campaign –, one realizes that there is a little lack of ground liability and that there is little serious about this matter. That is exactly what you will need in this difficult situation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fact is that, because of the decline in the working-age population, pensions are no longer insured if something does not happen in this area. The fact is that the increase in life expectancy in itself is heightening this problem. The fact is that the lack of children we have experienced for decades is the cause of this crisis. The fact is that the banal sentence, that it needs children for the safety of old age, is true. In this way I come to speak to the parents of these children, to the women and also to the men – of whom it is rather few – who, by taking over the task of education, take on a social task, which is essential in the interests of safeguarding pensions of all, but which – and this is actually a paradox and also shows the gap of the system – are massively weakening their individual chances of age security. You have to say it quite clearly: If someone is in the interests of the system, and Children, he then narrows his individual chances of obtaining security from this system himself. This is a shale that is based on a structural error and has passed from the beginning. It has been pointed out on various sides of science. In the past, however, it used to be: Children get the people anyway. - That was obviously wrong. This is something that has existed for a long time and which could have been corrected. For 30 years social policy has been made here mainly by the Social Democratic Party, and it is sad that after 30 years of poverty and above all the poverty of divorced women, who can only live on social assistance. It is not right for you to complain about the government's reform approach. Rather, you should complain of your own failure and your failure over the last 30 years, because if it were not, then it would not be necessary to have decisive reforms in this area today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was the previous government that made a paradigm change in this context by taking retirement periods into account. This government programme will also take a further step in the right direction by extending these times from 18 to 24 months. But it's true: If there is an extension of the calculation period to the entire lifetime, then it is necessary to ensure that not precisely those women who, because of the education of children – so to speak, thank God – have a complete biography, are further affected in their age security. I can assure you that, just as – you could just read it in the still fresh “curriculum” – Fritz Neugebauer describes the representation of the public service as a very central issue, which goes beyond every force of clubs, we as a liberal put the representation of those women and men who carry out their family tasks at the heart of our work. It is fair and fair to see the pension reform ahead of us. It will also be because otherwise it could never be sustainable.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16153	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16171	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say in advance that we Social Democrats are ready to contribute to real reforms. We are especially willing to make a contribution to a constitutional change where it makes sense. If, for example, the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors believes that a clear division of tasks between the federal government and countries should be achieved, then we are ready to talk about it. Even if the ÖVP or the Federal Chancellor in his Government Declaration expresses the intention of abolishing the indirect federal administration, we are ready to talk. We are also ready to talk if it is possible to redesign the more than one hundred security authorities in this country efficiently and cost-savingly. We could also imagine that we are willing to cooperate. Unfortunately, however, I have the feeling or I am convinced that, just as the changes are being prepared by the Minister of the Interior, bad will come to us. Instead of concrete concepts, headlines dominate. In this declaration of government, in this government programme of population broking, such as the fusion of traditional guards, the effort is not made to go a little closer into the detail. The Minister of the Interior simply remains guilty of specific information. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, there will be no major structural changes and reforms in the case of organisational measures, where there will be referendums. All the measures that will be taken will make it possible to continue the repositioning game. The conversion and recoloration potential of the Minister of the Interior will continue to exist – it will accompany him like a dark shadow. The problem with the Gendarmerie General Strohmeyer has already been discussed. Dear colleague Schöls! As a trade unionist, I can tell you: He has taken the luxury of having his own opinion – swoop! –, suddenly he was no longer general, but head of the flight police. He did another thing: He has taken his stand, has exercised his fundamental right to express his opinion freely, and has candidates for the SPÖ for the National Council – swoop! – already he was a simple police officer, no more head of the flight police. – This is the way you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, are dealing with your staff in the ministries, and that is really a piggy, believe me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] [[Abg. Schöls: “Sweinery”...!]] This is no reason to call for an order. I'd think worse than that, my dear Alfred! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Molterer: But this is a dangerous threat!]] The mills of the courts, the justice mills slowly – but they grind. That is why I can tell you that a number of questionable decisions have already been recognised as illegal. The Appeals Commission has just found in Lower Austria that three officers have been wrongly disappointed from their offices. This shows that many of these measures did not go through the stage correctly, that you have only taken action out of party-political motives. Many considerations and many important questions were not even worth a headline in your government programme, for example the problem of private security services: There must be measures in the future! What do you do to ensure data protection? – There is an urgent need for a change in the notification law. Ladies and gentlemen! You didn't think anything about civil service either. The Minister of Defense is reminded of the reduction of the time of military service. But what will happen in the field of civil service? – No word on this matter! The fact is, there is a chaos in this area: There are thousands of complaints by young civilians about lack of food. Many are still waiting for the money to be transferred to them as a result of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it can be! The fact that you have dealt with the NGOs in the field of asylum shows the statement by Caritas director Landau, who said – I quote – that: It is “not simply to believe that here a responsible politician, who always refers to his Christian roots, is himself president of an NGO, ultimately obviously out of apprehension –... – making decisions that go at the expense of people”. Ladies and gentlemen! We reject such a course! They don't have any substantial improvements in the eye.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16231	Mr Parnigoni! First of all, your speaking time is over, and second, it would be good for the climate in the house if you would make a comment on the expression “sinning” and take that expression back.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16246	I will make a comment on this, Mr President. I'm holding fast. [[Abg. Wittauer: Mr President! I've also been interrupted!]] The SPÖ would have been ready for a large reform partnership. The ÖVP lacked courage to do so. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I take back the expression ‘sweeper’, but it was nevertheless a way of doing so, which is contrary to any human rights. The Minister is acting against human rights!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16295	The next item is the report by Mr Rasinger. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16313	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Many may have surprised the combination of women and health. In fact, this area is one of the most exciting tasks of the future and one of the most interesting combinations I have seen in recent years. Health care is female, I have to say as a doctor: 80 percent of health care workers are women. The doctors – they have a little towards this – are already over 50 percent. Secondly, The main users of health care are women. Women are more concerned about their health, women are getting older and therefore need to take care of healthcare more often, and, most importantly, women often motivate men to go to the doctor and take care of their health. So, in my opinion, the combination of women and health is a very ideal one. I also think it is very good that this ministry may be occupied with Maria Rauch-Kallat. I have known her for a very long time, and she has done a breakthrough in the social aid plant in Vienna. This social assistance work has helped people who have not been able to help themselves, people who have been disadvantaged, in the way that they have provided help for themselves, but have also provided help if they have been needed. I would particularly like to highlight the neighbourhood centres, because they are also a rail that will be more and more important in the future. In a life that is becoming more and more lonely, I mean, in addition to health, in addition to the care as such of the circumstance, a great role that comes to this provision at all that someone does with one talk or help at all. These neighbourhood centres were an ideal example of an institution in which those who wanted to give help could provide this assistance to those who needed help under professional supervision and assistance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Which seems very important to me as a family doctor: As a mother of a severely handicapped daughter, dear Maria Rauch-Kallat, you have participated in all the heights and depths of a patient and family career, and I think it is also very essential that you as a minister never lose the ground liability. An open word about self-retaining: This is a delicate topic worldwide. I don't know any health system in the world that's out of control. In Austria, a proceeds of approximately € 1 billion – with a total budget of € 10.8 billion – is raised. If we didn't have these billions, we would have to delete many achievements at all, and that would mean a hundred percent self-esteem. Therefore, even under SPÖ governments, it was always out of dispute that there is self-retaining, and one has always tried to somehow make these restraints socially just. What we want now is the following: First of all, we want to order the confusion. It is often not quite transparent even for insiders, who pays what when. Secondly, It is new that we want to make the self-retaining more socially just and therefore also a social cap. Why? – 20 percent of people receive 80 percent of the benefits, most of them chronically ill, elderly people, women again and again people with small incomes. I think you should look at it, not look away! If someone has a family in which there are several chronically ill people, or has the fate to have, for example, a mucoviccidosis patient who needs many small individual benefits, and is just over these income limits, he comes along! We have not looked at that so far, and I think Maria Rauch-Kallat will look very well there, because illness must not become a poverty trap! At least under the government of the ÖVP we will not punish patients. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] It also seems important to me that health policy needs objectives. Just as there is a general transport plan, where a motorway is built and where a high-performance route is built, the health policy needs targets. One of the most essential goals will be that we want to do more for the prevention, because the noblest goal is that a person does not even get sick. In addition to repair medicine, therefore, we need to extend the rail that is concerned with the maintenance of health. 25 percent less heart attack deaths, 25 percent less stroke deaths, 25 percent less cancer deaths – this goal can be achieved if we strive and when we take the right measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a doctor, I can only underline what German Chancellor Schüssel said today: Health care is intended to provide high-quality services, and they are to be open to all, regardless of age and income. Remember that you can be sick from one second to the other! If you don't have a good system, They complain bitterly. Then you may, as in England, wait for a hospital bed for a year or an operation that will never be performed, or you will die while you are on the waiting list. That is why I am glad that we have clearly expressed our position on health and that we have a minister who has the necessary commitment, but who also has the heart needed for this policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16414	The next item is the speech by Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16432	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to make the motion for a resolution that Mr Kogler did not, at the end of the day, accommodate. He has clearly stated that the acquisition of these interception hunters is not only useful in military policy, but also cannot be carried financially in the present situation. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I now come to the chapter on education and want to address what has been brought in by Mrs Gehrer in the last few days and has subsequently been discussed quite intensively, namely that students should be relieved in Austria, through a reduction in the number of lessons. This is a requirement that the Greens have also introduced for some time, but this should be done in the form of a structural change in the Austrian education system. I have found an interesting statement by the Minister of Education Gehrer from the election campaign – from 28 October. October 2002, it hasn't been that long. At the time, Gehrer spoke out in an APA interview against a reduction in hours at the schools and said, among other things, that this was also about repetitions. – So four months ago she meant that such an hourly reduction would not be possible for her! What I want to express is that there are apparently different approaches to it. We Greens did not want to see structural reform in the education system as a cost-saving model, but we really believe that other education systems, based on a lower number of so-called normal lessons and on a much higher number of funding measures, have developed better. You can see this when you look at Finland – they have a model like that –: less normal lessons, relatively much resources for individual funding, and for the promotion of weaker ones. Well: The Minister for Education has spoken of a ‘billion of education’, of €72 million. - I didn't find her in the government program. I know there have been very intense discussions in which we have existed on this educational billion. It is not in the government's programme, and I would be very excited whether Minister Grasser, who is apparently back in the search for money, will be able to raise this money somewhere in order to allow for appropriate measures here. I can only say: The sole reduction in the number of hours as a purely savings model – among other things because, as has been said to us over the past few years and as mentioned in the government programme, the structural effect has to be saved, with an order of 300 million euros in this legislative period – will certainly not solve the problems of the Austrian school system. If measures are not finally put in place and promotions are made possible, then it will not be possible to improve the problems identified by the PISA study in Austria on a sustainable basis. These problems can be referred to by name; at least in the field of education, it will not be possible to blame the Greens for having to contribute to this government programme because it is so identical. There are three things that the PISA study has clearly identified: first, the problem of social segregation in Austria, second, the problem with migrants and, finally, thirdly, the problem with girls in the girl promotion measures. In all three areas, we have tried to make points in the discussions. – In all three areas they have fallen out, it is simple and simply nothing left. The PISA study appoints 14 percent of Austrian pupils at the end of school compulsory with extreme reading weaknesses, and 4 percent are de facto referred to as secondary illiteracy. 4 per cent in a country like Austria! The aim was to reduce this proportion by at least half. – No word on this in the Government Convention, no word on the measures. With regard to the social problem, it was clear that in the agglomerations school experiments should be allowed to achieve more cooperation, at least through school attempts. – Not a word in the Government Convention. The promotion of girls has been drastically reduced. – It has by far not left what we wanted. Finally, a point which Mrs Gehrer has also announced to the press; she herself said that we agreed on the increase in resources for alternative schools. – I do not need to say here that this too has fallen under the Government Convention. The FPÖ probably had little interest in this. Total: This is a government programme in the school sector, in the education sector, where I cannot see anything at all about innovation where what would have been difficult, but yet accessible, has fallen out. In view of that, I must say: I am very glad that we do not have to carry this programme!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16523	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz is properly signed and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Bucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16545	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to try, from the point of view of an entrepreneur, to briefly interpret and explain from the economic policy point of view of this government programme. I believe that the heart of this government programme remains the financial background, namely a balanced public budget, a balanced public budget, the reduction of the tax rate to 43 percent by 2006 and the coverage of the debt level. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For natural reasons, one cannot be opposed to these committed objectives; from natural considerations and from economic policy considerations, it is remarkable and supportive that the Federal Government has taken this step. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Especially clear is the consolidation success of the last Federal Government by the 2001 Court of Auditors report, according to which – and I have written out this extra detail, Mr Kogler – the old Federal Government has succeeded in bringing about a major debt reduction. There was a minus in 1995 – I say it in Schilling because it sounds a little more dramatic – of 122 billion schilling, and the Federal Government has managed to reach a primary surplus in 2001 of 4.5 billion schilling – in euros are the 0.33 billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen! FPÖ has always represented the principle: First, clean up and then relieve! This government programme could be described in the following sentence: What lasts for a long time will finally be good. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It's right what many of you have already said: This government programme contains key, elementary, claims for freedom, such as the first stage of the tax reform already in 2004, which will lead to a relief of €600 million, taking into account the economic situation of our country and to the offensive efforts to improve the economic situation. Indeed, it is adventurous how, if one has followed the plenary day today, the unemployment rate in Germany has deteriorated almost hourly compared to the economy in Austria. Mr. Bartenstein speaks of 4 million unemployed, Mr. Grasser of 4.5 million unemployed, and rightly Mr. Bartenstein of 4.7 million unemployed in our main trading partner Germany. This is a dramatic development which we are aggressively opposed to with this government programme. Free handwriting means: Instead of unemployment, we are promoting work in this country! This is reflected in the measure that we will introduce a tax-free annual gross income of up to €14 500 in Austria. This relieves the lower and medium incomes, increases purchasing power and will ensure demand and economic incentives in this country. The promotion of equity education has been a requirement of Austrian entrepreneurs for many decades. Finally, it is true with the reduction of the tax rate to more than 50 percent for profits not collected. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As – I would say so – the last relic from the socialist era becomes the 13. VAT special payment deleted – a measure that will benefit the economy and ensure more growth in our country. Research and development is one of the most important areas to ensure that jobs are created and that gross domestic product will continue to grow in the future. On this basis, I have tried to demonstrate once again that, through the continuous development and upgrading of the funds for research and development, there is a guarantee that sufficient money will also flow into research and development and that the economy in our country can also go into a very good future. [[the speaker holds a graphic in height]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16630	Next item is the report by Mr Jarolim. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16648	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! I will be brief on the basis of the advanced time. I have been following Mr Rest-Hinterseer's speech with pleasure before. Much of what she said I think is right. I think to compare the government and the Federal Chancellor with the lower oil tanker in front of Galicia, that's something for itself. If I make the declaration by Mr. Partyobmann Federal Chancellor Schüssel, I note: It is kind of decent to compare this government with the oil tanker that has fallen off the coast of Galicia, which is called “Presty”, which lies at the bottom of the sea, causes damage and otherwise nothing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second point in which I may have a little different view from that of colleague Rester-Hinterseer is the following: We've seen Minister Pröll today. [[Call the ÖVP: A good man!]] She attacked him. I think you have to be able to compare with a government. I have to say quite honestly: Compared to the Federal Chancellor, he seems very serious to me, ladies and gentlemen. I may ask Mrs Rester-Hinterseer to take these differences into account in the Federal Government, too, because I believe that it is a matter of looking at where perhaps one or the other view of light is in this overall work. I'm coming to the judicial program now. It's also like this: It is essentially very unambitional, and in many areas – unfortunately God, Federal Minister – I see the manuscript of the irration of your coalition partner. I have – we have already had some discussions about it – actually hoped that much of what you have promised us in the last legislative period will come now. I would say that there was a very unpleasant development at the Jugendgerichtshof – we agree. I do not understand why the ÖVP has more or less opposed that. Perhaps you can still talk about it, because from your point of view, there is the concept of discussing youth jurisdiction as a whole. I believe that it is not a matter of pouring out the child with the bath, but of removing what has existed in terms of reason regarding youth jurisdiction, which has actually made this segment a model throughout Europe, I believe it must not be destroyed. I hope it's still looking for better here. However, when I look at the point of criminality of social fraud and recall that for years, almost decades by the Austrian People's Party, fire fire has been fired against any attempt to combat black entrepreneurship, and now in the government programme of "Strengthenability of Social Fraud", I must say: [[Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer: In the case of organized black work!]] I do not quite understand how this is meant, whether it is perhaps something or not. That the workers who do not deserve anything coming across the border and trying to escape their need are now being punished, but the black entrepreneurs – I do not understand you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – are enjoying their favor and are not really persecuted where you could make it much easier, that really does not understand anyone in this country. This is also more of a very unsavory argument. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe, Federal Minister, that you mean it honestly, but you also need to be measured together with those with whom you stand in a series in this government – and also in this coalition. These have been in the past – I can only say: This is an experience from the great coalition – always blocked by it. That means that we also owe these unacceptable states to the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. This has to be said here. Let me also say the following, Minister of Justice: They always say that there is a need to improve the laws, to tighten the penalties accordingly and to increase the threat of punishment! I believe – and we have already said so – that this is not useful at all. It would have been useful, for example, if the Minister of the Interior had done what he could have done, namely to implement an efficient policy to improve the fight against crime. In recent times, due to its “great” achievements, there has been the highest crime rate at the same time as the lowest level of information, ladies and gentlemen. It must be put together to put together such an act of incompetence within three years! Mr. Strasser doesn't take this from anyone. I'm from Leopold City. It was his "performance" to close the commissioner in the Leopoldstadt – like many other Commissioners – in a large district where the Praterstadion is, where the Prater is and where the fair takes place. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Everyone's gonna get on the head! I can only say: This minister can no longer be taken seriously – and thus not his policy either! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16745	The next item is the speech by Mr Murauer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16763	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! As spokesperson of the Austrian People's Party, it is of course building to know that there is a government that is presenting a good programme, which very much evaluates the security, peace, stability and freedom, and so on. It has also taken the necessary steps in the last legislative period and will also take it in this legislative period. The existing Security and Defence Doctrine is the basis for this, it is guiding a new task definition for our federal army, for our military. After the risk analysis, which conflicts, which are threats to our people, a doctrine has been decided. A Commission will be set up by experts, a Commission of the Substrategy. I would call it the new Strategy Commission, which precisely defines the tasks and which enables our federal army, after the Security and Defence Doctorate, to do the right thing – nationally and internationally! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It will be necessary that our federal army is first and foremost prepared for our country to protect the population and for national defence. We must be prepared to protect the institutions, to protect the values and to protect democracy and, of course, to protect our borders, but also against disasters that may threaten our country. To this end, it is necessary to have the appropriate equipment available, to train, train and also to seek cooperation and synergies with the civilian population. Of course, this is also important for the further development of the ground defense service. A second essential point is that the Common European Security and Defence Policy is also taking the step towards Austrian defence and security. That is to say, the security of Europe is also the security of Austria. If we are talking about solidarity with all our EU countries, which will be 25 in the future, and we want to seek assistance guarantee, then we mean that this serves our security and not just a keyword in documents and papers. We will have to develop a model of readiness which, within the framework of international operations, also holds our soldiers ready to act quickly and together with the other European states for peace, for peacekeeping. A third one seems equally important to me, namely the mental attitude towards national defence, the mental attitude of our people towards security policy. In this respect, I believe that in the past, not enough has been done, yes, I would almost think, it has even been neglected to draw our people's attention to the importance of security policy, the importance of defence policy. If we had done so, then it would not have come to that displeasure discussion with their populist statements that we unfortunately have now God. In relation to the interceptors and the airspace security, the opposition parties are constantly coming up with the argument that reads as follows: For God's sake, all countries have airspace surveillance, what do we need it for in Austria? – I mean: We must get away from this discussion! The people and all the parties represented in this House must know that it is necessary to do everything necessary to ensure the security of our country and our people accordingly – the security of land and air, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A comprehensive security policy for our country is also the basis for the economic development of our country, is the basis for enough labour, is the basis for social stability. Finally, I wish you a wish to the opposition: We should be able to keep the security policy, the defence policy out of the party dispute! This issue is far too sensitive to make policy with the arguments of the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16837	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16855	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the government chairs! Ladies and gentlemen! A wish for the opposition was the last word of my predecessor – a wish to the government may be the receipt of my short presentations, and this wish is quite simple, which means: Please, express your concerns, which you have arranged in very rudimentary form on 40 pages very short and complete together, at least in exact German! An example: My colleague is from the security sector. On page 8 you can read: ‘Debursement of the executive of non-artifactial activities’; – What are “non-art activities” of executive officials? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Administrative activities!]] I think executives are human beings and not species, and people have the right, especially if they are active in the executive, that they are supported in central areas of action. At this point I really want to make a commitment to the serious work of our operational executive, especially in the light of the statements made by my predecessor and especially in the light of the safety idea, which is certainly dangerous. I should like to point out once again that road safety is a point that has been raised far too little in the debate on safety today. But in fact I do not want to limit myself to this, so to speak, physical security, but generally to the security of the financial policy and here I would like to point to another linguistic particularity which is a matter of rigour. On another side, I believe, you can read that the financial compensation should ensure that it is one – what is said to disappear? – expenditure-oriented “population key”,yes exactly, should give a “task-oriented population key”. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: A task-oriented person!]] Fortunately, you, Mr State Secretary, are here as an expert. Explain to me what a population key is! You usually speak of a distribution key. In fact, it should be in the financial balance: a task- and resident-oriented distribution key, because that would be a real reform approach to bring state-political finances into a constellation, which gave us a lot of resources for important areas of application. You know as well as I – we have been at work for a long time – that the key to health – since I use a vocabulary from your area – of state finances in a new distribution of tasks and, above all, in a reorganisation, I have to say correctly, and is in a task-oriented financial allocation. In this respect, we have still not discussed much too much, and there will be evidence of the reform power you have. We have already noticed in the last legislative period that your national power centres have kept themselves relatively unharmed in the financial balance – often at the expense of the communities, often also at the expense of the federal government – and I am curious about the extent to which the Constitutional Convention, or whatever you want to call it, will at last remedy it and establish a new constellation, a legal framework condition, which will lead to the possibility of finally saving money. Because Mrs Gehrer is behind me, I would like to say: You made a very courageous announcement, Mrs. Minister, but how do you deal with the National School Council now? I admired you for your announcement that the National School Council should be saved. What's in the government statement now? What does the Coalition Convention say? I can't see the word "Land School Council" anymore. [[Abg. Grandruck: Is already saved!]] I see that there is not even a question of saving in the school administration or re-coordination of the school administration. Mrs. Minister! Today was the speech of courage. Please show courage, show him again, prove him, really remove the national school council presidents! [[Federal Minister Gehrer: You should read it more precisely!]] You know this institution from your professional past, many present know it too, and you have to say: This would be a symbolic example of how you can make the savings fund useful in the field of education and then make funds available for what our young people really need, namely a qualified training. [[Abg. Grossruck: The Council of State Schools is not the President, Mrs Colleague!]] Finally, as Minister Böhmdorfer is currently leaving the government bank: Minister Böhmdorfer! Although it is not directly related to financial compensation and new allocation of tasks, I would like to have explained one thing: They have noted in the Government Convention that there should be a review of the "Verbandsklacht". [[Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer: No!]] Read it! [[Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer: I know it! That's not a word in there!]] This has been an instrument for your work, including for the future activity of the Secretary of State, which is very important for consumer protection. Look You're after yourself! - I'll bring it to you then. This review may result in this regulation being withdrawn, and we cannot tolerate this step back, neither you nor I! Look at this! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign in memory of the observance of the speaking time.]] These were just three examples, I could choose some more. We've got a lot to do, just: You should really prove courage – I didn't see anything about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e16989	Next item is the report by Mr Wattaul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17008	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! Modern transport policy has been successfully launched under FPÖ Transport Ministers and is continued under Federal Minister Gorbach. All modes of transport, rail, road, waterways, have their right. The introduction of the General Transport Plan will create a network of ideas and actions. The road pricing is on track. The introduction will install a fair, fair system, which will also allow for future steering measures. The size of Europe, however, also requires that our railways be set on modern feet. [[Abg. Oils: rails, modern rails!]] We need a forward-looking way of thinking here. I am confident that Federal Minister Gorbach will transform the railway into a forward-looking and attractive transport for the public. Ladies and gentlemen! In a united Europe, however, it is also necessary to introduce the same rules of play for all Europeans. An essential step has already been taken in the right direction through the in-force step of the EU driver licence. The introduction of the so-called Black Box is still open. As I ask the Minister for Transport to put pressure on us, we need this in the sense of control. Only by means of cross-border regulations and uniform controls can a modern Europe be guided and designed. The economy requires framework conditions that are the same for all. That is, anticompetitive laws are abolished. Ecologisation in transport is basically correct. However, it must be noted that the Austrian site is not disadvantaged. I'm just calling Germany, red-green. We can see from this example how the location was disadvantaged by taxes on fuel. I am convinced that Hubert Gorbach is the right man at the top of the transport resort; he will do his job well. In conclusion, I would like to address Mrs Gisela Wurm, because she said today that it is being changed in the Ministry of the Interior: But coloring means that something must have had a color already! – And if Lord One says that thinking beyond a legislative period is nonsensical, then the SPÖ really exposes itself and shows how it has made politics in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17050	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17069	Ladies and gentlemen! If one looks at the government programme to see how the planned measures in the coming years will affect the Austrian families and their living situation, it is not possible to see that a general attack on the budgets of the Austrian families is planned. In my opinion, a weekly newspaper published today presented it very vividly: a family that you took off the last shirt. [[The speaker shows a double page of a weekly magazine.]] This magazine has concluded that every family in Austria is taxed at €3 310 per year. In this sum, it is nice to see even a tax reform that may be expected. Not only should family policy be evaluated in the narrowest sense, because, of course, Austrian families are also heavily affected by the planned changes in the pension system, by self-maintenance in the health field and so on. Of family policy measures in the narrower sense, I would like to highlight a planned measure as really positive, as a step in the right direction, namely the planned right to part-time, a concern which the SPÖ has been very important for many years. [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: Claim, not legal claim, Mrs Colleague!]] A legal claim, yes. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Claim!]] Claim? So no legal claim, a claim! Well, that's what you have pointed out – I didn't want to be so critical today – that some things will have to be discussed in detail, because there must be a situation that makes it really possible for women to take advantage of this very important family policy. In addition, you have also left the courage because this regulation, which, as Minister Bartenstein has just corrected, will not even constitute a legal claim, but only a claim, only for employees in large and medium-sized enterprises. This is unfortunate because most Austrians are employed in small businesses. We also know that small businesses are actually the more flexible ones. I would also like to point out that this measure should not lead to a fall in the effect on the subsequent pension, because if there is to be a life throughput and on the other hand the incentive is to take a step back to part-time at an important stage of life, then this could result in a great reduction in the amount of pension for women later on in the calculation process. I think and hope that the new Minister of Women – unfortunately she is not present – will have an eye on it. Unfortunately, there is also the development of child money. It is only about evaluation. They have not been able to get through to a flexibilization of the child's money desired by many women, such as the fact that the child's money can not only be used in the infant phase, but it can also be used for later stages of life. The same applies to childcare. There is also a lack of courage in this area. They have only managed to influence the countries. Ladies and gentlemen! This is necessary, but it would also be necessary to provide incentives, and you have not been able to get through it, although it is known that 100 000 childcare places are missing in Austria. While they give the right results – the places are missing especially in the care of children under 3 years of age and the school children – you have not been able to get through to the appropriate measures. As far as schoolchildren are concerned, I regret that no step towards day-to-day schools is planned, not a step towards expanding all-day school forms – this would not only be an important educational policy, but also an important family policy measure. In the exploratory talks with Mrs Gehrer, I had the impression that she actually saw it. Unfortunately, there is now no step in this direction, although it would be particularly important. I would like to make a positive assessment of the initiative towards school relief. This was a particularly important concern for us during the last legislative period. I am pleased, Mrs Minister, that it has succeeded in convincing you of this concern, but doubt that the way you have proposed is the right one. He smells suspicious of a decorated savings measure. If one looks at the government's proposals on family policy in summary – on the one hand, a family anchorage is planned in the Constitution, on the other hand, there is no word in the government's programme on the diversity of life forms, on the living conditions of single parents, on communities of life – one must fear, ladies and gentlemen, that ÖVP and the Freeman will benefit family policy in the next few years as a field of ideological struggles. That's a shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17131	Next pro-redner is Mrs. Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17149	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Mr Jarolim can then ask his questions in the coloir. I would like to say a few things that have appeared in the course of the debate on research and science. I can remind you that there are good news to be reported today. In the last legislative period under the ‘Government’, expenditure on research and development increased to the highest level per year. Of course you can say that this is still not enough. Agreed! But after all, it was the highest ever-achieved research budget. In this context, it is also welcome to see the share of expenditure on research and development in GDP, which is significantly higher than expected for 2001 and 2002 and is two percent. For the 2005/2006 study year, a 2.5 percent quota is sought, one of 3 percent for 2010. I am sure that the special funds of €600 million, which are now to be distributed through the usual procedure, but with more direct access, will be a further impetus for research investment. Some of my previous speakers have talked about how the government will make it possible to stimulate the economy to increase research investment. Well: The new law of service at universities with its greater permeability between the university and the economy will certainly work for the economy, for the active persons. It strengthens the awareness that technology and research investment stimulates the economy and work, creates jobs. It is certain that other management measures such as the change in profits not collected will also bring about a different access to research investment. However, if we approach this area with a negative attitude when defensive news is being spread, if we do not address this issue, we must not expect the economy to increase its research investment. What to do? What are the most important measures for the next few years? – First of all, it is a most recently discussed simplification of support structures. The debate is open, but not yet completed. I'm sure she'll get a constructive result. In relation to other model nations with regard to research and development, it is important to separate strategic and operational levels and to make the increase in knowledge available, i.e. the new findings, both to the Scientific Community and to citizens. Much of what we know today, which we think is safe in discussions, is because researchers have been working in this field and have made these findings accessible to us. Based on the successful implementation of the 2002 UG, the research funding instruments are adapted to European standards, but the scientific and content autonomy of the decisions remains, of course, within the institutions. This is very important because it creates security. In fact, it is necessary to work on measures to improve efficiency while respecting the sovereignty of scientific decisions. Evaluations, audits carried out by the Court of Auditors are not in itself a threat to the freedom of research. We need to discuss the results and derive measures from them. I am very glad that the government programme also provides for an extension of the promotion of women, i.e. further promotion of women. I am very grateful to Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer for having repeatedly and intensively awarded herself through actions rather than through words and for continuing this path. I am pleased that in the next few days the concept of another women's promotion instrument will be completed, namely the University Women's Advisory Council. Experts will report on the implementation, the further consequences of the university law will be discussed and presented. Vice-ectorine Moser of the University Vienna has already expressed itself very positively. This is another big step in university women's policy. Ladies and gentlemen! A previous speaker said that the future that should be made possible would not really be achieved politically. I hold to this one statement by Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach: “What we do today is decide what the world will look like tomorrow.” So we decide and act responsibly so that the future is possible! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17221	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor. And Mr Principal now has the presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17249	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor! They spoke about the family in the Government Declaration, saying: “The families are consciously dedicated to our political work. Our greatest pride, our greatest hope are the children. We must therefore do everything to make their world of life loving and promising. The children need protection and support. 90 percent of young people see the most beautiful goal of life in an intact family. – I think we have the task of encouraging them to this goal of life and creating even better conditions for it.” [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Federal Chancellor! These are very nice words – I think prose was called that – in an arbitrary declaration of government. But I can't imagine, Federal Chancellor, that this is your answer to those problems and questions that families are currently facing, that you say that 90 percent of young people see in an intact family the most beautiful goal of life, that's what you want to support and say to them: [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Oh, yes!]] Yes, that's how it continues! Until one day a bang comes and awakens them in the reality of the family. – I don’t know which families you know, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: There was a survey, Mrs. Deputies! That's quoted from a survey!]] That's quoted from a survey, of course! But I do not see it as my political mission to strengthen high visions of young people when I know exactly what reality looks like. It is also our task to prepare for reality, Mr Bundeskanzler, the young people for reality, and this is simply different. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is reality...!]] The reality is that there are currently 40 divorces to 100 marriages in Austria, and half of these divorces come after less than nine years of marriage. Every year, 19 000 children and young people are affected. Just these children and young people need answers, they need answers in reality – and not a confirmation of visions alone. For these children, divorce means: separation from a parent; this means new patchwork families, new partnerships with all their special challenges and also problems. This means that adults, children and young people need advice, support and legal frameworks that address these changed living conditions that take account of these new forms of living together. That is what families, the children who need young people – and not anointed words, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Unfortunately, divorce also means poverty. There are 57 000 people in Austria who work and still cannot live by the money they earn with it – the “working some” as they are so beautifully called. In reality, 178,000 people in the country are affected, all living in a family with these people. And who is the most affected? – This is not difficult to guess: Single parents, multiple families and families of migrants. These people also do not need good words, but those concerned primarily need a basic guarantee that allows them to survive, in a humane way. The persons concerned also need appropriate childcare facilities, which is because it will not otherwise be possible for them to be fully employed in order not to have to survive only 20 hours of work. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] You know, in such situations, the risk of poverty is three times as high as usual. – That would be answers we need! You have a very beautiful family concept, and you always emphasize how important the family is to you. Despite this, grant They do not have the right to live with their families in Austria. This is about migrants living here. The vast majority are migrants: The fathers live in Austria; the children and the spouses have no right to be with their fathers or partners. The families are denied the family. – You do that, who always keep the family so high! We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In this way, all people in Austria should finally have this fundamental right to life with their own family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17371	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mr Mandak, Mr Mandak, Mr President, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Lichtenegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17392	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Today my first day is here in plenary, and I have already been reminded that I am actually standing here in the last offer. But it has already become clear to me on the first day that it is preferable for me to stand in a final offer that can take on responsibility than in a obviously best offer that none can take over. That is why I still have prospects! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I also see prospects for Austrian sport – I am the new sports speaker of our group. We are also represented in the government programme, which I am very pleased with. The sport is by no means the most beautiful side of the world, it has become an essential component of our society. He has established himself in it, he literally includes all age and interest groups, from school and youth sport to broadband, top sports, disabled sports to senior sports. This bandwidth alone already tells me that we are well advised to invest money in Austrian sport. We have a relatively low sports budget in international comparison. We should use this money fairly, sustainable and transparently in the future. The fact that it makes sense to invest in sports money alone shows me the following facts. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger:... underground garages!]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] First: Austrian athletes also represent Austria and thus also carry the image of our country to the outside. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Secondly, People who engage in sports – and since I mean not only the top athletes, but all athletes – usually achieve a changed body consciousness. I even trust myself to go so far as to say that this is a big step towards precautionary medicine. Ladies and gentlemen, this is even almost an active health prevention! We have set ourselves a number of tasks that we have to tackle. We need to review the efficiency of the umbrella organisations and see whether the money can be used more effectively in the professional associations in the sense of sport. I am also disturbed by the term “Randsport. ” This is a term created by the media. “Randsport” means not sport that is less practiced, but “Randsport” is defined by the media as being less represented in the media. I hope that in the future there will be an approximation of the broadcasting time in the ORF, so that all sports are present. This certainly also promotes the economy, then we have more sponsors who are interested in participating in Austrian sport. This will also please the Minister of Finance again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One last sentence: We also think about the professional sports law, a very important step more or less towards a “social assistance” for the Austrian top sports player, and also about a school sports association that is supposed to be a link between school sports, trade association and club, so that in the future we will have many young talents in sports in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17457	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17475	Mr President. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We are now at this conglomerate of sport, education, science and family – a very exciting topic. To my previous speaker, just a brief remark: Mr. Lichtenegger, as a sports spokesman of the FPÖ, you are certainly a profit in relation to your predecessor. But beware of underground garages! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Like Alfred Gusenbauer and many other speakers from my group, I can say: This programme of headings and content contains quite a few interesting positions in the field of education. I would like to mention them below. Federal Chancellor Schüssel has stated in his government statement – and this is interestingly not in the government programme – that it is a goal that all children should be able to read well after the elementary school. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Ambitious!]] – This is a very important goal, I would like to expressly say here! That's what the PISA study tells us. If that succeeds, then we do not want to respect it. The international comparability of graduations, quality assurance, financing models in adult education, similar to our SP model of education premium, can certainly give rise to an interesting discussion. But if we look at the chapter on education, then we actually have to start at the very end of what really interesting things are in it for education. Here we read on page 38 in the financial chapter: ‘Increasing financing of fees’. “Increasing fee financing” – what is behind it? Should schools and universities cost more in the future? Federal Chancellor Schüssel meant that 7 percent were not much. Do you want to increase the academic rate? Do you want to achieve a shorter study? – We believe that this is not possible in this way. Write a little further Under the heading ‘Administrative reform’: ‘Save 10,000 posts... In the field of education: Compensating the structural effect’. What does “compensating the structural effect” mean? – This means that there should be about €150 million, i.e. more than 10 percent of this savings chapter, of education. This is still sold under the discharge chapter, and the schools are to consider autonomously where they contribute to the savings programme. – This too is an escape from responsibility which marks some of the points in this government programme. We continue with the savings programme: Ms. Minister, the government programme also says that you want to continue the “educational building offensive”. This is a dangerous threat, with engagement, because the last educational offensive was still under the SPÖ government. In the last three years, on the other hand, only projects have been completed, new ones have been examined, new ones have been brought out for a construction offensive and re-scrolled, but nothing has really been built in the sense of a construction offensive. We can really give up on such a construction offensive! I have read with interest the point “The creation of legal foundations for pedagogical universities”. We have always suspected that the People's Party has removed the time of the great coalition from memory, because I read: 25. June 1999, Federal Law on the Studies at Academies and on the Creation of higher education institutions for pedagogical professions. – There are already these legal bases, Mrs. Minister! [[Interference of Federal Minister Gehrer.]] That's what the government programme says, I can't change it. One last point I would like to address in the short time available to me is the following: Accessibility in the year of people with disabilities. . We say that on the model of the social partners, which has been mentioned, we are saying no to force special schools. On the contrary, we want efforts to ensure the integration of disabled children into school to continue, finally to solve the miserable problem that happens after the eighth class, and not to continue refusing access to education to disabled people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There has been an opportunity at this point. He will be a test stone for whether you will also follow your words and whether you are willing to resolve the downtime in the education field.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17536	The next speaker was Mr Keussnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17554	Mr President. Estimated representatives of the Federal Government! High house! It has been thanks to the long-standing Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry Willi Molterer. For this reason, I would like to ask the question: What was the point of this era of Molterer that the representatives of agriculture and forestry and rural areas would like to express their sincere and full thanks? I think there were basically three things: It was the consequence of the work, it was the total commitment, connected with the sense of the Pragmatic, for the feasible. Willi Molterer was an tireless engine in finding new opportunities, in ecologizing the sector and in all matters of education, innovation and entrepreneurship. [[Abg. Eder: He's here! Still! He's still doing this!]] – He is Klubobmann today, we are talking about his era as a Minister of Agriculture. Today we have a stronger, more competitive, ecological and entrepreneurial agriculture. We would like to thank our long-standing minister and now Klubobmann very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For the future, it is our challenge to formulate and implement a strong, sustainable policy for rural areas, not as a contrast to the agglomerations, but in a meaningful co-operation. I am pleased that this Government Pact contains key points for rural areas. First of all, we must mention the agricultural chapter, which allows for the offensive development of the sector. The biomass sector must also be mentioned, where a truly powerful sector is developing. We already have hundreds of plants in the country today, we have sophisticated techniques, and we are getting bigger and more ambitious projects implemented. This policy must be pursued with emphasis, which is an active environmental policy linked to an active economic policy. This policy creates jobs in the countryside, creates value added, creates ecological and economic benefits. One word on the third structural point – that is the financial compensation – is the task-oriented population key. Mrs Moser, I really don't care if it's called "task-oriented population key" or "distribution key". It is important that rural communities, rural areas and rural areas are given justice. This is where, when the necessary laws are to be debated, we will all have to do with each other so that we can achieve a constructive policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17600	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17618	Mr President. High house! During the few weeks that I am now listening to the National Council, I have heard from the ÖVP several times the appeal to the opposition to be constructive and not to polarize – it is finding out what we can do as criticism, what is constructive and what is not. Today, in the comment of Mr Klubobmann Molterer, it is good and important for Parliament's reputation that the common position is put on the divider. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Yes!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, are ignoring the fact that there are different parties for good reason, because there are various interests in the population. We have these interests to represent here, and we do! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: We too!]] You have already tried in the last government to equate “Austria” with “government, ” namely, your government. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You just don't have a monopoly of interest, gracious woman!]] I am still the concept of “schooling ” in extremely unpleasant memory. With this concept of shoulder closure – a military term, as far as I know, that's not a coincidence either – you then tried to force the opposition to take over the interests of the government. You will try it again this year – a little more discreet but nevertheless – with your criticism that we are not constructive. That means you're trying to suggest: The opposition must not be criticized because it is not constructive. So you complain, a little insulted and instructive, the sound and the type of criticism, but do not respond to the arguments, you do not deal with the arguments in terms of content. For example, with regard to the so-called pension reform, they have not at all addressed the fact that these changes will bring about dramatic deteriorations, which will mainly affect women, and that there will continue to be a gap between women's and men's pensions. Mrs Rosenkranz alone has admitted that this deterioration of the situation is a fact. On the other hand, there are wild encounters on the part of the ÖVP, but there is no objective response to them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would find it very constructive – that is, on the side of the government – if you, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, would say something on this matter once. Otherwise, you could come to the idea that you either have not thought about it or consciously purchase it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In contrast to you, I find it extremely constructive and also necessary to highlight and discuss these points. That is, among other things, an important task of the opposition, and we will certainly not leave you, ladies and gentlemen, of the government groups, the definition power over what is constructive!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17703	The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17721	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! In today's debate, I wonder: What would the Red and Green colleagues have said if they had taken on government responsibility? When I recall the results of the negotiations and what has been pushed into the public from the negotiations, I must say: In these negotiations, they were in fact in most respects of an opinion with the presumptuous government partner. Was it the prospect of ministerial and state secretaries at the time? Since you are denied this prospect, it seems that only the criticism remains. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You continue where you left off before the election: in spreading falsehoods and in incitement of fear in the population. When it came to taking real responsibility, it was you who chose the easier task of the opposition. By changing your advertisement in tomorrow’s issue of the “Kronen Zeitung” you can only say one thing: Once government participation has been ruined, it is totally outraged! – I hear a bit of pain again and again, because you would have liked to have ministerial offices and recolored Austria. You would have liked that. What would have been your program then? – Party Accounting, political downtime and high budget deficits. Mr Gusenbauer, who is mounting why everything has not been done by Blue-Black in the last legislative period, said: We liberals, too, will not be able to clean up a chaos in just three years, which you left behind after 30 years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But we're on the best way: Government work in recent years has had more results than thirteen years of red and black. It is precisely this government work and our reforms that have been confirmed by the voters. What wasn't baffled was our interna. But even if you don't like to hear it, ladies and gentlemen: We have learned from our mistakes and will not repeat them! Perhaps even in the opposition, there would be some honesty – honesty that Mr Petrovic showed in an interview when she said she had learned a lot in the government negotiations, because suddenly she had to consider every demand: What would that cost? Is that eligible? – Why have You'll learn this so soon, Mrs. Petrovic? That's exactly the point: Oppositions can demand without having to implement anything. Governments need to design and reform and to deal with the financial possibilities. We will continue to make, shape and reform responsible policies for Austria. That's our goal!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17779	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17798	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Neudeck, it may already be that this is your goal, but on the way to the implementation of modernisation you are sometime you are That's about three years ago. This is the problem, Mr Neudeck. If you look at what's happened in the last six months, you can see: That is not to be surpassed at standstill! It cost a lot of money, but nothing moved – thanks to the “Modernization Technologies” of the Austrian Freedom Party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with another issue, namely that of agriculture, as I am in my position in this House, and I am forwarding the following, Minister of State: The same applies to you as to your predecessor, who now sits as a clubman here in the House: On the part of my group, there is an offer for constructive cooperation. But this is not – and I am of the same opinion as Mr Sburny – under the foreign currency that has been practised in your country in the last three years: The invitations are available, conversations take place once, but there is a request to agree or go again. I hope that this style will change and that in future we will be able to achieve constructive cooperation in the sense of Austrian agriculture and in the sense of Austrian farmers and rural people. But if this really happens, Mr Federal Minister and, above all, Mr President of the Federal Farmers' Federation, it would be necessary, I believe, for some Austrian agricultural representatives, with Commissioner Fischler, to go to a seminar to learn what it means to operate future-oriented and worldwide agricultural policy in the common market. I would remind you of that “press hour” with Commissioner Fischler, who said that he actually took over something that you all, ladies and gentlemen, who have been in the House for a long time, but above all all all, are known as a position of SPÖ, namely, that in the agricultural policy you have to put people at the heart of the people. The same was said by Commissioner Fischler last Sunday, saying: We want to support the farmers and not promote the cattle! – This is exactly what it is all about, ladies and gentlemen. Federal Minister! In the future, they are invited against what is in the government programme – for there is not really much in it of concrete implementation measures – and against what has been read in the press so far, to make a real change. The situation we now have, namely that 80 percent of the funding goes to 20 percent of farmers, needs to be changed. If, in his speech today, the Federal Chancellor spoke of justice in connection with the future and sustainability, I must say: This is one of the points where it is important to exercise justice, and we must implement it when it is really about the future of agriculture – and, ladies and gentlemen, it is about their future! The government statement said what the future needs – the future needs responsibility, active European policy, security, secure jobs and so on – because so far, with the old and now new Federal Government, the future did not have that. I hope that you will not really continue the flight from the responsibility you have operated and wish to continue under the government programme, but, together with a constructive opposition here in the High House, you will actually work for the future of Austria so that Austria has the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17870	The next speaker was Mrs Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17888	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! “Youth belongs to the future”: We have heard this sentence very often. This sentence has also been said very often, but unfortunately it is one of the sad truths in politics that the future is still very far away. A second point is that youth is a rather small part of the population, as measured by the population as a whole and because of demographic development, and, accordingly, the political participation of young people is a lesser one. Thirdly, politics has unfortunately often tended to push youth policy concerns to the long-term bank. Mr Mandak said earlier that we must explain the reality to young people. To do this, I have to say: I am really glad that there are two ministers in the 1930s, and that there are also very young Members in this House, because we can therefore assume that there is real concern for youth policy concerns, namely young people, to whom the somewhat over 30-year-olds are still counting. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Federal Government is highly accountable for the fact that it has today presented a government programme, in which it is really trying to achieve the proposed reforms in particular in the future, especially in terms of youth. Pension reform, health reform, tax reform, state reform, education reform – at the heart of the issue is always the same: On the one hand there are too big demands, and on the other side there are empty cash registers. What is the benefit of a reform partnership when problems that arise cannot be solved? What is the benefit of a reform partnership when interests of older people are legitimately opposed to the interests of young people and because no solution can be found? There are some important key points in the government programme, which have important implications for young people in particular: Tax reform, low income relief. The latter is an important point, because it is the young people who have to start with low incomes, because Austria continues to pay tribute to the principle of seniority. But I am very glad that we have taken a step forward in the national service of Upper Austria, Vorarlberg and Styria to meet the requirement of a redistribution of the amount of living or a flattening of the income curve. It is also to be welcomed what has already been said, namely that in the field of education, this model has been designed for teachers. Of course, I cannot address everything, there are many things – starting from the presence service, which is to be attracted, to the numerous measures in the pension system and in the education sector that are necessary – which I can simply say in the sense of youth: The reform partnership, which has now been entered, is one that does not hold back from the problems that the truth also puts on the table and which, above all, does not take any measures that would help my generation to find further problems.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17943	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e17961	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! A new government program, a new federal government apparently lures the opposition into false interpretations. The last days and in particular the last few hours I have followed with great amazement. As a new spokesperson of the liberals, I now want to address the unjustified criticism of our women's policy. Although red and green always claim otherwise, we liberals are committed to a progressive women's policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We do not work with expensive campaigns, as this is remembered by red women ministers, but we work with content! We liberals are committed to a model of partnership, we are committed to full equality and equality between men and women and we are working for a model of equal opportunities. That many small steps are necessary, you know. Our women's policy is based on freedom of choice and self-determination. We don't divide women into categories, all women are important to us. It was the liberties who finally put an end to discrimination against housewives and mothers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is, of course, still much to do to simplify the combination of family and working life for women. It is important not to take any measures that will become a boomerang for us women, who, for us, lead women to disadvantages specifically on the labour market and reduce our chances in the labour market. A modern solution for flexible working time models is important for us, and this can only work if we take into account the different needs of workers on the one hand and companies on the other, so that a win-win situation arises on both sides. Full-time models must be possible so that child care is also interesting for women in leadership positions, but also for fathers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is important for us to protect women and combat poverty. That is why it was also a great concern for us to include the introduction of the 1 000-€ minimum wage in the government programme, which we have successfully implemented. This is a big step and an important contribution to the fight against poverty in women. I think, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and Greens, it would be more sensible to work together constructively and not just repeat untenable criticism. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and Greens, have continued to opt for opposition and to reject responsible and constructive work for Austria. We liberals are not afraid of this responsibility and will continue to do constructive reform work not only for women but for all people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e18042	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e18061	Mr President. High house! A few days ago it was read: “The new cultural policy is the old one”. – This sentence comes not from a left-wing publication, but from a cultural editorial of the “Press” of last Saturday, and it seamlessly ranks in the list of negative reactions to government formation. Black and blue will therefore bring little innovatives to the arts and culture sector. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Schweitzer.]] Mr Schweitzer! Thank you! [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer breaks off the call.]] You're not used to it yet, are you? [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: Yes!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] I repeat: Black and blue will bring little innovatives to the arts and culture sector. There are now 12 points instead of the previous 17, characterized by rather gay, empty headlines and little meaningful keywords. In part, these include claims and declarations of intent already found in the Schüsel I government, such as tax measures for the recovery of the art market or the multi-annuality of the grant contracts. The museum of Austrian art and culture is also being continued – an area that has experienced some budgetary growth during the last legislative period. But there is no single word, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of “social situation of the artists”. Clearly, for the conservative cultural concept of art and culture there are mainly monuments and buildings. This was also confirmed by the Federal Chancellor Schüssel, who was responsible for art and culture, when he spoke in his statement of government today, in very narrow words, of a “financially generous “national foundation Austria” and said: Thus, “we will ensure the preservation of historically important buildings and monuments in the future”, but the innovative, the new, the creative, the contemporary actually did not mention. The “human” factor, in concrete terms, does not mention the working and living conditions of the artists. With no syllable, the artist social security is addressed, one that deserves this name as well. It is not a point of reference that an improvement in the working conditions of artists, of knowledge workers, could be a model for the working world of tomorrow. No mention is made of the adaptation of the tax regulations to the characteristics of artistic professions or of the improvements of Austrian copyright. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no question that a sufficient dosage of the Federal Museums and the Federal Theatre is important, but we must not lose sight of the equivalence of the other cultural areas, especially in times of scarce budgets. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! That is exactly what I fear: you will provide even less resources for these other cultural areas, for the areas of contemporary art and culture, for which numerous cultural initiatives will be available. I find it very interesting that at the beginning of the cultural part of the government programme, the intention is to promote contemporary art. That is why I think it is so interesting because in the previous government agreement the term “modern art” was not even mentioned. Put the promotion of contemporary art at the top of your catalogue of measures, I think it is just provocative, because you had set up the spasm exactly there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Mr State Secretary! They will not tire to say that the cultural budget has been increased. - That's not true. The budget has been reduced. There may have been a small increase, but it was mainly invested in prestige objects such as the reconstruction of the Kleine Festspielhaus or in the Wiener Musikverein. As has already been said, the innovative was saved. In addition, the Minister of Finance has announced a budget for 2003, which provides a minimum of 5 percent for discretionary expenditure. I hope you will work for the artists and for the arts budget accordingly. One can no longer speak of “cultural basic care” in black and blue, rather of a “necessary supply”. Ladies and gentlemen! I am concerned that conservative cultural policy will be responsible for the devastation of the Austrian cultural landscape. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e18140	The next speaker was Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e18159	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today our Federal Chancellor has presented an extensive and for me and for all the other impressive government programme, and the opposition is right to discuss it and to be opposed to it. [[Abg. Eder: Are you impressed?]] Just what I don't understand: They have criticized the recipes and not the program. And the recipes, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to work out here in this legislative period, sort them out and then make them legal works. But we agree on the programme, i.e. on the question of what is being resolved in Austria. There is, I believe, a unity in the whole House. I should like to remind you of the problems to be solved: the challenge in international competition, the change in the world of life, the creation of gender equality, the compatibility of family and profession, solidarity between young and old, the safeguarding of our excellent pension and health care, increased research and development, in order to guarantee also sustainable environmental protection, active European policy, sound security policy for Europe and for Austria, adaptation of management to change, secure jobs, assistance for the weakest, promotion of talent, release of businesses and taxpayers. – The basis for this is solid state finances. Ladies and gentlemen! This was the content of the Government Declaration and the Government's programme. I think we all agree that solving these problems is a challenge that needs to be addressed. There are very good examples that show that Austria is praised for this. You probably read it yesterday in the standard, in the press, in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” and so on. It has been reported by the well-known German scientist and economic researcher Bert Rürup. – You have certainly persecuted it, but I have not heard the quote from you today. This is understandable because he has praised the Austrian Federal Government's willingness to reform. He says that the Austrian Federal Government is on a good footing in its pension reform plans. The opportunities in this government constellation were better than in 1997 thanrup itself was in a pension reform commission in Austria". - Listen, gentlemen, trade unionists! "At that time, trade unionists would have prevented further reforms. The brake's gone now, says Rürup. It is true that the government is trying to reduce early pensions. The finishing is also a step in the right direction.” – So Rürup. [[Abg. Eder: He lives in Germany! He doesn't live in Austria!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am reading to you now – we see from the example of Germany what makes red-green – what former SPD spokesman Klaus Bölling, a Social Democratic, says about the current policy of Gerhard Schröder: “If Gerhard Schröder does not want to disappear as a footnote in the ranks of the Social Democratic Chancellors, he must prove himself today as a reformer without fear and blasphemy.” – Quotative. He probably took a loan from our Federal Chancellor, Mr. Bolling. [[Call at the SPÖ: Then he remains a footnote unfortunately!]] “On the evening of the 22nd. In September 2002, he said, “ – Schröder – he now wants to make a policy that some of his friends would not like among the SPD social politicians. Now he finally has to fulfill the promise, even if the lamentation of Zwickel, Bsirske, Sommer and Engelen-Kefer sounds even more shrill.” – These are all trade unionists. And on top of that: “If so, our social state, a great cultural achievement, is about to go into the binsen.” – This is the ruling of the former SPD’s spokesman on the German government. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Reading time!]] [[Abg. Eder: What do you say?]] We can be glad that the continuity of the reforms and also of the policy under Schüssel II is given here in Austria. We're happy about this! Mr Van der Bellen, in his speech this morning, compared the government with a ship and used concepts from the Nautics. [[Abg. Eder: Don't ship, old tanker!]] I say to you: In all this structure our Federal Chancellor is the lighthouse. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ made a mistake: She wanted to fight the cliffs and the depths, but she fought the lighthouse. But the voters, ladies and gentlemen, were smarter: He cleaned out the lighthouse, and now he shines much better! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I come to the conclusion: The SPÖ has also tried to set up some “lights” before the election. I reply and close with a double four-liner: Lights were presented before the election in large numbers, Petritsch, Broukal, Knoll and Graf, that Alfred created a majority’. The choice was there, the majority not, too weakly burned the lights light, and today only one smiles here as an emergency light at the exit door.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e18318	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e18336	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! What were those times three years ago, what a mood, how did it happen when this new government cabinet was praised! Head of State Haider has lovingly called the couple Chancellor/Vizekanzler “Susi and Strollchi”. It was highly stylized to the jubilant couple, and what remained of it, dear friends? – It's only Strolchi left, and he's probably got a vet as a partner! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is really a development that is symptomatic of this government. [[Abg. Scheibner: When you were still State Secretary, we had something to laugh about!]] There's nothing left of the euphoria. This government is reticently sitting there and actually giving up its programme before it has begun to realize it. But there is not much to be achieved on this programme either. It consists of speech bubbles and headlines without content, and in fact we heard the same thing three years ago. – It should finally be implemented. [[Abg. Scheibner: So it's good!]] Dear friends! I think there will be very different problems in this government. Even before the Government Declaration, Minister Gorbach noticed that he was making the veto threat against the accession of the candidate countries very calm, that he was very likely to continue swinging these veto owls over which one wanted to get over. In the last “Kurier” Scheibner recalls that the military reform has not been agreed with him. – That means, in fact, one rules side by side, not one another. We do not want to have much to do with each other either, and we do not want to be green, because otherwise we would not have to have a motion for a resolution in which all Members are obliged to take part in this government programme. [[Abg. Scheibner: Green is not one, we are black-blue!]] There are only two possible reasons for this: Either one is suspicious of one's own Member or the black Members are suspicious of the FPÖ members or vice versa. However, the self-confidence of Members should be so great in order not to support such a thing: a blank check for a government, a self-belief, so that one cannot vote against something that might become uncomfortable, so that every independent initiative in this Parliament is strangled and here only more is tried to speak to the rulers after the mouth. [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you read the application?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We are not at the SPÖ!]] So there is not much in content, but there will be many interesting personal discussions – that has already been announced and shown – and I am very curious about how long this government will last. I do not think that there will be a very consistent implementation of programmes if these difficulties are already demonstrated in the run-up to the Government Declaration. But the mark of this government is to steal from responsibility. The marking is that the regulation of closing times to the national leaders, the withdrawal hunter financing to the next government, the pension provision to the individuals, the self-retaining of medical visits to the health insurance companies. So I don't think it's a responsible or convincing start to this government's activity. The body language of the present members of the government shows that they are renunciative that they have actually abandoned their own program before they have begun to implement it. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You're leaving us in the government!]] The reason why the Minister of Finance is not present is also clear to me: The blacks don't give him any more applause, not the blues. – I am curious about how he will establish himself. He almost fled the government bank, because he is not properly recognized by anyone. He has been absent for a very long time, this is also an interesting sign for this government. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's a luck for him because he doesn't have to listen to your speech!]] But I think it is better to describe this policy of government and this programme than Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat did. She said that this government is working under the motto “frust rather than lust”, and that is nothing to add.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e18487	The next speaker was Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e18505	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say to Mr Wittmann: The climate has changed, and the State Secretary's office is gone. - I feel like you've got to be very hurt. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If I listen to today's debate, how the opposition parties here practice severe criticism of the government paper, I have to say: You didn't read it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would really ask you to do the following, so that you don't have to constantly listen to criticism from us: Read – think – talk! That's the currency. Then the thing would look a little better for you, too. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] When I look at what exactly you criticize, if I look at only the pension reform in Austria and what privileges there are, I have to say: The greatest privilege rider is in the SPÖ! As I already believe that he says in press releases, no, this system must not be changed, because my name is Karl Blecha and I cash 12 554 € pension per month – while hundreds of thousands of workers have only 643 € pension. - It's clear that he's upset. [[The speaker shall hold a panel up to the level at which the figures mentioned above can be seen.]] [[Abg. Eder: Forstinger!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] I would have believed that this would be a pensioner's representative, but he only looks at himself and not his clients for whom he would be responsible. We will change this so that justice and the corresponding equality will come into the pension system! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What's in the government paper? – Listen a little, otherwise you won’t notice again! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pepper.]] When I compare what's in this government paper and what the opposition parties say, I wonder: Where is the government paper saying that you have to pay €5 on a doctor's visit? Did you read this somewhere? - Not me! You probably prepared your own government paper! - Or: Where does it say that you have to pay €10 on a specialist visit? Now we're going to see what services the local health phone carries out, where your socialists and your socialists have been ordered, because now they're given the task of finally laying hands there as managing directors, as in the private sector, and of seeing to it that they are economical and economically dealing with taxpayers' money. They should now make proposals where they can make savings, but not at the expense of patients and at the expense of quality, but by turning at their own door. - That's the first one. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this way we will save the health system, also through further mergers of social security institutions. I am particularly pleased when I read in the newspaper or hear about the opposition that the entire pensions are now being abolished. – I didn’t hear anything about that! Step by step, something is shortened. What we've spent, you haven't brought it together for 30 years. Workers can continue to go to early retirement with long contribution periods: Men at 45 years of contributions with 60 years of age and women at 40 years of age with 55. [[Call the SPÖ!]] That's a positive situation, and that's what happened to me, you could have done that in the last 30 years! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] There are also many workers who earn less than €1,000 a minimum wage. I have a whole list that I will once again pass on to Mr Vergestnitsch, who is no longer present today, so that he knows how many workers and how many professional groups there are, who do not even have a minimum wage of €1 000. I am particularly pleased for the young people and their future that ÖVP and FPÖ are in the government, because for these parties it is clear that in Austria no light or heavy drugs are released as a party here in this House wanted. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Reforms are being implemented for the benefit of the Austrian population in order to ensure both the pension system and the social security system and much more. It goes uphill again in Austria, and it does not go as far as the opposition has done for 30 years.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e18648	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e18666	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Walch, Ashandi Wednesday was yesterday! Ried is no longer there, it is now taking place in Althofen in Carinthia – excluding the public. We have listened very carefully today, have also read the statement of Government on the subject and have to say, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, Mr Walch: You set the wrong priorities! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have quite different priorities! We are based on a comprehensive security concept that goes far beyond the military sphere, and on security requirements that are very likely to include your concept, but go far beyond that. These include safe jobs, safe pensions, safe and sustainable health care. All of this is not adequately taken into account in your government programme, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With you, the purchase of combat aircraft is at the top of the agenda, and you insist on this purchase. This means nothing more than moving debt into the future without taking responsibility for it now, ladies and gentlemen. It is only in 2006, 2008 that the next government must do so! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The taxpayers will be asked a little later, but they will have to pay back this billion euros with interest rates and interest rates! Therefore, the population rightly has no understanding of this sintering procurement, which is rejected by more than 75 percent of the population. Ladies and gentlemen! These fighter jets are suitable for the air, for the air war, but have nothing to do with air police action at all. That is why we do not need it in Europe or in Austria! Therefore, a decisive no to that of your policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! As media reports can be found, you speak of the ÖVP of planned barracks closures and thus encounter the most fierce resistance from your own ranks. I am thinking here of the opinions of the Heads of State or Government. You intend to end the assistance at the border, and consider introducing your own border army or border guard, whatever you call it. You know very well that this will cost much more money than the Soldiers of the Austrian Federal Government, who by the way do excellent work in the service of Austria and European security. You, ladies and gentlemen, come here with unbridled ideas without a financing concept – a statement of intent without any chance of realization. They also speak of a reduction of the ground defense service to six months. We are open to talks, ladies and gentlemen! However, I can remind you that when we spoke of a six-month ground defense service after the end of the assistance mission, which was always rejected by you and rejected as polemic. Although this is not stated in the government statement, it is announced by you by the ÖVP, and the new Minister of Defence suggests that no one has talked to him about this reform so far, these savings plans to the Austrian federal army. So he was apparently surprised by these announcements, which is not a particularly happy understanding. But we are not concerned with polemics, but with an efficient and credible policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Aha and Oho-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is the basic principle of our policy, and that is what we will and will realize as a large, responsible and constructive opposition party. You can rely on that, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e18791	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e18809	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are discussing today the second declaration of government of Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, who is particularly responsible for the good future of our country. After eight hours of debate, I was allowed to draw a brief summary: On the one hand, two parties are ready to face the challenges facing the country. We are ready to tell people the truth, too, and this, Mr Gaál, also in the field of security. The safety does not end in the air, two centimetres above the air, the safety must have been given in the land and in the air, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Far from it: “Two centimetres above the air ” is good!]] We are ready to take up courageous reforms. On the other hand, there is an opposition to this responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Silhavy said that the government lacked courage for social reforms. I can tell you: We are taking the path of social reforms to ensure the system is sustainable. But you criticize this path, and you are not willing to take even one step along this path because you are shy of responsibility. You do not want to assume any responsibility, you want to press ahead with the responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is exactly the social democracy we know. The chairman sits on the carriage and would even be willing to move a little in the right direction. Only everyone else is sitting at the brake blocks, so that nothing goes on, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That makes it clear: The SPÖ never wanted to rule! And that is what our friends tell us, and you know it very well, because otherwise many explanations, Mr Cap, would simply not be understood. [[Abg. Gradwell: How did you get that?]] Mr Cap is right when he says: A manifesto of courage! The SPÖ has presented a manifesto of courage again today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What is symptomatic of this SPÖ? – It remains the resignation (Cap) – in brackets. Live the gallow humour, just presented by Mr Wittmann, and one flees into the cabaret (both) – in brackets. Ladies and gentlemen! This has remained of the great social democracy: Cabaret, Cabaret, Cabaret! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] On the other hand, we have also conducted very intensive government negotiations with the Greens. Although the talks have gone well, at the end of the day, Professor Van der Bellen was not allowed to agree to this government. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: You weren't there!]] One didn't want to, and the other didn't want to. Do you know who's in my mind? - Karl Valentin. May we have wanted to, but we should not have trusted ourselves. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! That's your policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: 100 percent of this applies to you!]] Wolfgang Schüssel said today that only a powerful economy brings social security, and he is right. Many, many of the impulses that this declaration of government has in itself show that further economic policy development will be given a great deal of understanding. I can assure you that the economy understands this message, and the economy trusts this government to a much greater extent than in other countries. What has become of the economic engine Germany, ladies and gentlemen, where a red-green government has been working for years? – The engine stands, the engine smokes; it no longer smokes, it only smokes the cigar of the chairman. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We in Austria have different conditions. Wolfgang Schüssel and his team will lead this country to a better future, and you can't pray that sickly and not be sick, but remember one: Suspects live for a long time!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e18919	The motion for a resolution tabled by the previous speaker, Mr Gaál, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e18940	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! - Oh, yeah, she's back, colleague Fuhrmann. Being young, ladies and gentlemen, does not automatically include young thinking, as seen from the example of colleague Fuhrmann. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Yes!]] She said – and there are some young people up there –: You are a small group, and for you the future is still very, very far away. This is quite old-fashioned, Mrs Fuhrmann, for a group to represent you in the House. They are half as old as I am and therefore speak twice as old sentences. – I look forward to working together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Vuhrmann: Typical teacher!]] But let us return to the government programme, because this should be the subject today. In the future, the Federal Chancellor has said, sustainable, he has said, and just. For me, this is a warning triangle, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, which is not a triangle for the future. This future programme, which you offer, is also not a festival for youth. It is short-term and not sustainable, and it is unfair and not fair. I will show you this by means of two examples. If we look at the field of education and training in the Government Convention, it is obvious that you do not write in that you confess to dual education. But I take it once because you have taken some points out of the SPÖ teaching package indiscriminately and written in. That means: You have read our demands, you have apparently found them to be good and have taken over parts of them. However, they have not really dealt with this because not all the proposals that would be necessary to improve the situation of young people in the apprenticeship market have been adopted. And why do you write: “voluntary training associations ”? It seems as if you did not want to take responsibility, and that is to be noted in many points. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is also no commitment in this package to a training guarantee for young people, which Minister Bartenstein has already preached. There is no confession from you to the right of young people to education and training, and there is no confession to a really active apprentice policy. I wonder where the €250 million that we decided on last December and which you wanted to use for employment policy measures for young people when, in reality, the situation of job seekers gets worse from month to month and it is now more than 40 000 between 15 and 25 years of age who do not have work. I would have liked to know from Mr Bartenstein, the Minister for Labour, where the €250 million flowed. And above all: Everything about education and training is a half-hearted slinging course and a mourning game, ladies and gentlemen! A short second example: Youth policy itself is dedicated to four short lines, four headlines, without real content, because in such a small paragraph there is not enough room for it. The contents of the 2003 government programme differ in almost nothing from the 2000 confessions, but with a serious difference, ladies and gentlemen: In the government programme 2000, you have written at least co-participation and participation, co-determination of young people. The EU Youth White Paper – Mr. Bundesminister Haupt has also agreed to this – tells us that participation by young people is one of the most important prerequisites for allowing them to participate in political events. That is no longer even in this government agreement! I think that child and youth policy 2003 should actually have the same importance as in 1998 when Austria held the EU Presidency. At the time, we had defined participation and participation as one of the most important, central concerns of youth policy. – But the times are changing, the times are getting worse, the times are black and blue, the times are on course bowl II. Wherever this course leads, we'll see. We're waiting for it. On youth policy issues, ladies and gentlemen, we are still happy to provide our know-how.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19014	The next speaker to speak is Mr Deputie's friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19032	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The new government has now taken up its office and wants to act forward-looking, fair and sustainable, focusing on people. Dear ladies and gentlemen! As our Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel has already noted today, the Austrian land area consists of 80 percent rural areas. He has also made a commitment to this rural area. The backbone of the rural area are the farmers and their families. They contribute significantly to regional value creation, shape our habitat, protect nature and produce healthy food. It must therefore be an important concern to protect the income of our farmers' families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Government Agreement is oriented in this direction. The farmers have great hopes in the new Minister for Agriculture Josef Pröll. He has succeeded Wilhelm Molterer, with whom I would like to thank him very much for his great commitment as Minister of Agriculture. Especially as an Upper Austrian farmer and as an Upper Austrian, I am very happy to do so. As I know Josef Pröll, he will continue the successful path of the Willi Molterer. The objective must be to promote sustainable, future-oriented and rural agriculture. The SPÖ and the Greens have joined the public in the negotiations for possible government participation in the field of agriculture with far-reaching demands. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: What were these, for example?]] I am glad that these demands have not been given a chance to be implemented. I am glad that the important agricultural resort has remained with the ÖVP, because there the farmers are best removed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Farmers need reliability in politics. The Government Convention established the introduction of agricultural diesel and the harmonisation of operating resources in the EU area. This means, for the Austrian farmers, that at least from the production conditions they get the same conditions as their colleagues in the EU area. A 3-billion euro package is very important, as it secures the Austrian environmental programme and the necessary investments. I am particularly pleased with the intention to introduce the agricultural diesel. For a long time, it has been a concern for farmers to be relieved from this point of view – with the tax reform in 2005 this is finally possible – so that they can better claim themselves in competition. Our farmers will have to struggle with many difficulties in the course of the enlargement of the EU. They will have to compete with another ten markets in the future. But even if it's difficult: EU enlargement is an opportunity for our country, and we must take Europe's chance. However, we must also take on responsibility for Austria and strengthen our citizens, especially in the agricultural field. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The economy has taken over the role of the economic locomotive in Austria. This has always been Germany, but it is by far no longer, because we in Austria are far more successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I consider it very positive that there will be a further forced use of renewable energy. Biomass use should be significantly increased, as this serves a sustainable, forward-looking policy that I strongly support. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We don't want an agro-industrial industry in Austria. We want to continue the Austrian path of family-oriented agriculture. I would like to wish this of our Austrian government, with Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsslan, all the best for the coming period of government. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19096	The next speaker was Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19114	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the beginning of my remarks, I do not wish to miss out on thanking the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that in the statement of Government he has just given praise to the SPÖ: Since 1970, the standard of living or the life expectancy of women has increased by eight years, by ten years. - That's his statement. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: And is this a merit of the SPÖ?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: For this, the dear God, the creation is responsible and not the SPÖ! That's just blasphemy!]] This, Mrs Collaborative, is also because there has been excellent policy by Social Democratic Social Ministers and Social Democratic Health Ministers. You can't deny that, because here you can simply see the manuscript of social democracy. You weren't in the government. [[Abg. May. Mr Molterer: Perhaps you will vote in favour of our motion for a resolution!]] Mr Molterer! And exactly that progress after three years of blue-black government is actually in danger. Even the Federal Chancellor, in his government statement, emphasises that, after only three years of black and blue government, there is enormous need for reform in health policy. He has correctly diagnosed, but the therapy proposals are unfortunately somewhat weak and probably not suitable to ensure our health system financially financially. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there are also some areas in which we will agree and achieve quite consensus, especially in those areas where you have accepted our proposals. I can only mention two areas: the achievement of health objectives in prevention and modular training in the care professions. There are a few more that you have taken over from us in this area. Let me make this clear in some examples of your statement of Government. You, ladies and gentlemen, – and this is likely to be undisputed in this House too – want Austria to have a health system in 2010 which is open to all, regardless of income and age. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is all the more amazing that you want to increase the contributions by one percent for pensioners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Apart from that, ladies and gentlemen, It thus leads the policy of the old ÖVP/FPÖ government ad absurdum, because it has always explicitly excluded contribution increases, now the pensioners are burdened by you in two ways: first by increasing the contributions and second by new self retention. I think it is surprising that the Federal Chancellor then produces himself here and claims that there should continue to be free access to the services for all, regardless of income. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: This is actually a scandal!]] This is probably the next step away from the principle of solidarity and the risk principle, ladies and gentlemen. Next point: Equal contributions for all were, of course, also the subject of exploratory discussions with the EIA, and our proposals for harmonising contributions and benefits in this area were largely also undisputed. It is therefore rather unfortunate that the Federal Chancellor has left the right of reform in this area, and obviously only the workers and employees should be harmonised, while all other groups should be excluded for the first time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Yes, Mr Großruck, you have not read or understood the government programme. I assume the latter is the case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, another offer to you: We are willing to enter into the competition of better ideas in particular in the field of health policy, because we can rely on a great deal of competence. It is precisely the prevention I have already mentioned that is a prime example of our competence, and if you want to, we will also allow this to happen in a wide range of areas. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19218	Mr Wittauer referred to a brief report. It's his second word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19236	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As environmental spokesperson of the liberals, I am aware that the challenges for Austria in ecological structural change are enormous. Austria must pay for the 21st year. Creating a framework for an intact environment in the 20th century. The Reduction of pollutant emissions and the conservation of resources must be a priority. Environment affects all areas of our lives. These include, in particular, energy, industry, commerce, transport, agriculture, forest and water, tourism and leisure, resource management and consumer behaviour. I am aware that it is not possible to deal with everything in this short period of time when listing these points alone, but I would like to take a closer look at some of them. Ladies and gentlemen! Sustainable economy in the industry and industry sector means that the changeover to renewable raw materials or the saving of raw materials for products and services in this sector must be an objective. These include the conversion to renewable energies, energy saving, better use of primary energies in production and processing, and also achieving environmental cost-reliance. We also need to come up with new transport strategies and measures to ensure sustainable development for the sustainability of transport, which is a significant part of the environmental impact. Part of this is the shift to environmentally friendly transport, part of which is also the expansion of public transport and the development of alternative vehicles and engine technology. With the expiry of the transit agreement, emissions must not increase. Transit must also remain part of our policy. In addition, we must implement a revision of the IG air, which includes these objectives. Ladies and gentlemen! I know how difficult it will be to implement it. Environment concerns all of us and does not leave anyone indifferent. An intact, life-worthy Austria must be a wish of all of us, and we should implement it together.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19281	The next speaker was Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19315	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you have to wear all the red ties?]] She's beautiful, right? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: A little imaginative!]] A newspaper wrote on the weekend: Nothing new is brought by this government in the Ministry of Infrastructure. Once again a new minister like every year in the last three years. However, I would like to say that Minister Reichhold, who has now been exchanged again, has shown some competence in my opinion. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] I think of this as a kind of sacrifice, a little like a sacrifice. That's one. The other thing is that I also wish the new Minister Gorbach and his State Secretary Kukacka all the best for their duties. But the tragedy in transport policy, ladies and gentlemen, has been in the last three years. It is not, I have said that again and again, as important in infrastructure policy as continuity. If this continuity breaks down, it will always take a relatively long time to return to investment until, above all, one returns to investment, which will also become structurally effective. Of course, it will not be useful now if the new Minister Gorbach thinks he will stick to the general transport plan, which is being doubted by all the experts. I have a newspaper here, the “Economic Sheet”. It states that this general transport plan cannot be financed and can only be covered until 2006. So others also say that you should go so far from the plan that you will also create a detailed plan for the next time as we have actually proposed. If I read in the new government programme that the FPÖ/ÖVP government wants to continue to hold on to this unfinancing 45 billion monster, I think that is a wrong priority. It is just a list of wishes that the countries and communities have interconnected. However, I think you should do differently. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, now needs an infrastructure offensive to raise the economic location quality of our country in order to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the eastern opening. We urgently need the new transport routes, new railways and new highways and motorways, especially in the east of Austria. More than a year and a half ago, the SPÖ has presented an infrastructure programme called “Road to the Future” of €22 billion, which could have been financed by means of the truck-road pricing system of around 30 cents per kilometer, which has not been implemented for years. We must, ladies and gentlemen, I really appeal to everyone, especially the government, to try together to bring the increase in heavy traffic, which we are in the house because of European enlargement, to the rails, just as well. But also the North motorway and the links to the east – Wiener Zentralbahnhof et cetera – are to be started quickly. I think there's consensus. We just need to see how we really get this over the rounds. Ladies and gentlemen! Transit traffic in the west is also very important to us. According to a newspaper report, the new Federal Minister immediately took the word “Veto” into his mouth, which, in my opinion, was not a good statement. I hope he didn't say it exactly as the newspaper did, otherwise it would have been a serious damage to Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me also say a sentence on road safety. We also offer cooperation. It is not only about drugs at the tax, ladies and gentlemen, but above all about alcohol at the tax, it is mainly about trucks that are already involved in almost every other accident. I am trying to help us work together on a reasonable approach in the area of the Committee on Transport, which I am now chairing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19380	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19398	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The government is in office. [[Yes-noise at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It's time!, you can only say. For months, the Austrians were carried around on the nose. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] First, there were preferred elections because of an unstable government. After the election, there were long conversations, scoutings from time to time. And what's coming out now?– The same as before. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians already know what is happening to her: They are disillusioned, they are thrown, Austrian companies are thrown away, sick people have to pay fines. [[Abg. Scheibner: Go! What penalty do they have to pay?]] On the other hand, money is spent on more posts in the government, money is spent on PR measures that will place the screenwriter over these upcoming scrapping actions of the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A measure of the previous chaos government was the taxation of accident pensions. This was a Husch-Fuch rule, by which people who are prevented by accidents from working are still being harassed, because by this regulation, by this taxation of accident pensions, precisely those people who have not deserved it absolutely do not deserve it. In the course of the election campaign, the current Vice-Chancellor's head has been set up in the "Press Hour" of the 10th century. In November 2002, the accident pension tax had to be removed. Only: There is no single word for accident pension taxation in the Government Declaration. This, in turn, is proof that nothing will change for the better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thousands of people are waiting for a change or the abolition of the taxation of accident pensions. Especially these people feel the social cold particularly strong. They will not be carried around on the nose by the current cast-up government.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19481	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19499	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A few words must be lost on the comments made by Mr Grossruck. He meant: Wolfgang Schüssel – the lighthouse! Col. Großruck, a lighthouse has to shine! And hand at heart: Did Wolfgang Schüssel light today? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I think, rather, ladies and gentlemen, you must be careful that... [[Abg. Großruck: You are still completely blinded by the rays!]] No, Mr Grossruck, please note: If a lighthouse doesn't light, ships go down. And you must be careful not to go down with Wolfgang Schüssel. Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't have a light anymore today!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to see this government programme, which is available here today, on one aspect: What is actually being done for consumers? There is now a State Secretary – supposedly without competence – on the other hand, Mr. Federal Minister Chief has said that he wants to make the consumer protection standard in Austria courtable internationally. That was last Friday. I'm just wondering: Why didn't this happen in the last period? And if I look at the program now, then I have to hold one, my very dear Ladies and gentlemen: You've done a great chance. Your program is old-fashioned! And believe me, I know what I'm talking about. [[Lively ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] I could tell you how to make consumer protection policy in Austria and internationally. You, ladies and gentlemen, have not even taken into account the European Union consumer policy programme for 2002 and 2006, although the Commission has called on all governments to take these objectives into account. Where are the passenger rights? Where are the rights for railway customers? What does your program say about access to justice? – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing in there! Therefore, you have missed a great opportunity because you have not even dared to solve existing problems. I miss a major debt reform, I miss a harmonisation of consumer protection regulations in Austria, for example, the harmonisation of withdrawal periods, I am missing clear statements here about the banks. Mr Böhmdorfer was apparently cold. He's not allowed to take any more action against the banks. And now I'm asking you: What to do You continue to be in the interest scandal of the banks that have been exposed by the workers' chambers? What are you doing in the securities sector and in the investor sector? Or how is it going to go further in the food sector? I read in the government programme of “Transparency by Labelling”. This is an absolutely missing approach. You know why? – Because the markings do not match about 50 percent of the cases. What we need is a consumer information law. The Federal Animal Protection Act is supposed to come. I only notice: The execution should, however, take over the farmers in the federal states. I wish the animal welfare good luck. In particular, I have serious concerns that such animal welfare should then be reduced to EU standards in countries such as Salzburg. In short, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen: They're talking about the future, but I mean, this government programme can't have a future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19577	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19596	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! “Start caring – follow details.” – Reinhard Göweil uses this title in his recent edition of the “Finance News” where he addresses the Coalition Agreement. And I believe that there is indeed cause for concern as to how today's declaration of government and the contributions of the members of the government have been demonstrated. It is a high goal of Federal Minister Bartenstein if he wants to bring Austria's economic location below the top 3. That's a target. We support this goal, but the ways we would take are others. What is the starting position? . At the last plenary session of the Federal Chancellor, we heard that Austria had improved by eleven ranks in the business location placement. I've been researching. I could not read of this improvement in any single magazine, in any international report. Instead, it is true that in the Global Competitiveness Report 2001 and 2002 Austria has remained constant in the last three years at the 18. It was a place. A similar finding of European Innovation Scoreboard 2002 brings Austria a loss in ranking, and we discussed it last year in the Industrial Union. So the third place in this area could not be reached during this period of government, but Austria is on the 10th. Place dropped back. A further correction to Minister Bartenstein's statements today. He said that Austria has for the first time had a trade surplus. This is correct, but this trade surplus has not only been achieved because of the strong export economy, but in particular because imports have fallen dramatically. The Austrians had less money in their pockets in the last three years, so they could afford less, drive less away, and this has led us to have a trade surplus for the first time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Should our purchasing power go abroad?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do you want to?]] In particular, it should be noted that it is the Eastern European neighbours who actually support or protect the Austrian economy that we do not fall back into the wake of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen! I also heard three words of magic today: Flexibility, liberalisation, deregulation. These are not economic concepts that could lead Austria to overcrowding. Göweil has found in his analysis – and I have understood this too – that this economic concept, which is based here, does not have any networking, but it is an arbitrary combination of individual measures. I would like to give an example of the example of research and development. The objective is undisputed: We want to get here from 1 to 2.5 percent. This percentage requires a lot of money, whose application is unsafe, but this percentage also requires many scientists. At the same time, we are starting to launch a decommissioning and demolition process with the rest of the state-owned companies, but also in the new infrastructure holding process, which, in turn, destroys high-quality jobs. This means that the newly created research developments cannot be taken up because jobs are rationalised, as the examples Semperit, Benetton and Immuno show. However, the tourism industry with a 20 percent share is not sufficiently valid in its own ranks. Thus, it was written that the Hotelierverbandsprecher wants to leave the ÖVP because he does not agree with their conception. And the representative of the Young Economy has also found that this economic programme is only a collection of headlines. One comment to the end, since I already see the red light: In this declaration of government, the word “future” was very often used. – Perhaps the most striking word about the future of Karl Valentin, the great satirist and comedian from Munich, who once said – and this is perhaps the motto of this government – is: “The future used to be better!”
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19654	As the next speaker, honourable Member Mag. Sima. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19673	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! A new government with a new Environment Minister – at least theoretically – also offers a new opportunity. However, the reading of the government programme makes it relatively clear that, obviously – and I see this with great regret – the somewhat unambitioned environmental policy of the last three years should be continued to one. For example, point 14, which calls itself “Sustainability, Environment and Agriculture”, has unfortunately been very poor. Apart from the fact that the term “sustainability” is essentially only found in the title and in the very first sentence, it is not very much about sustainability. The innovative and forward-looking approaches I have hoped for and desired are missing. I would like to point this out to a few examples. You mentioned the example of climate protection today. What you have not said, however, is that the environment has already presented a climate strategy in 2000. This climate strategy provides for an annual investment of €90 million so that Austria can reach the Kyoto target. What you are now presenting is that there will be these €90 million from 2006. That is, two years before the observation period begins, we have for the first time the official sum presented by the environmental body itself to invest in climate change. The consequences are fatal, because we will not achieve the Kyoto target during the observation period! The emissions – and you know that – are already rising. I mean, it's just a little thin when it's the only thing that the new Federal Government has to offer in the field of climate protection! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] As you all know, climate protection is a good way of combining environmental protection with job creation. The Economic Research Institute has calculated that if these €90 million had been invested since 2000, 25 000 jobs could be created. So one would so to speak connect the pleasant with the beneficial, and therefore it is all the more incomprehensible to me that you did not do that! Example anti-atomic policy: Apart from the motion for a resolution from the last GP, you have little thought on the subject of Temelín. Mr Umweltminister! This says that you want to talk to the zero version about Temelín. But we both know that the blocks are full of the net and are running if there is not exactly a pan. You can't even believe that the Czechs are going to negotiate a zero version with us! So that's poor. There are no new approaches to a new anti-atomic policy, and I think that is very thin and very bad about everything that has been corrupted by you over the last three years in terms of a good climate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Very briefly, the example of waste and old loads: You know exactly that the proportion of multi-way bottles has actually fallen dramatically in recent years. The multiway mineral water bottle will soon be a rare species that we can look for in the supermarket with the magnifying glass. Unfortunately, however, Minister for the Environment Molterer has never been able to get through to a measure. There were now certain hopes that a new Environment Minister would now be working on this. Unfortunately, I see in this programme only the self-commitment of the economy, and we know that the self-commitment of the economy does not bring us anything in this area at all. On the contrary: The multi-way bottles are sinking and sinking! . I have hoped that there may be a new initiative from you, according to which we are going a little beyond this lobby, which obviously absolutely wants to push through the disposable bottle in Austria. But unfortunately nothing has happened in this area too! These are just a few points from the new government programme. I can't hide you: I'm disappointed because I think a good chance has been missed here to venture a restart after everything has already arrived a little bit. Unfortunately, in me, this confirms once again the suspicion that the environment should continue to be an attachment to agriculture, and this is a development that I do not want to particularly promote.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19736	Mr Krainer is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19754	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The government programme is illegal. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Not the whole program! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] It was largely written off by the exploratory talks, and there you accepted proposals from the two opposition parties. But otherwise, it is essentially not made up of saying headlines and records! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] But not quite! If we read in Chapter 4 on page 8 in the last paragraph – you can see right away! – then we see that family integration should continue to be regulated only within the quota. [[Abg. Where's that?]] This is simply and simply against human rights, because it contradicts Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But not only is it illegal to human beings, but it is also inhuman! We modest people that they may very well come to Austria, but only in two or three years. We humble children four, five or six years old that they may come to Austria, but only when they are seven, eight or nine years old. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You can continue to make the policy you have made over the past few years to become FPÖ's assistant to this inhuman policy! You can continue to produce a high pressure of illegal migration! And you can continue to cause extremely high costs in integration! In particular, if you bring children four or five years of age to Austria, the costs and difficulties for children to learn the language themselves and the costs for the Republic to support these children are much lower than if they are only allowed to come at seven or eight years of age. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] You can continue to risk a possible conviction by the European Court of Justice, a further condemnation! This will certainly do our image and reputation in Austria very well! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You have no idea about this!]] Summary: This policy is inhuman, financially absurd, against human rights and, above all, is contrary to your own policy! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What you say is absolutely wrong!]] They write themselves: Integration before re-entry. – In truth, you are making integration more difficult! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are completely uninformed!]] You must admit for yourself that the integration of a four-year-old child is much easier than that of a seven- or eight-year-old child! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why are you talking about a subject you have no idea?]] Their policy leads children to wait two or three years abroad. For this reason, I should like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Parnigoni and Mr Genossin on the creation of a special quota for family integration, which I read here: [[Quoted print version removed]] I come to the conclusion: Of course, at the time when this backpack will be dismantled, the family combination must be removed from the quota because it has not lost anything there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19898	The motion for a resolution that has just been read is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Dobnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e19920	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have experienced the new edition of Schwarz-Blau here in the Austrian National Council. We have heard many beautiful words in the statements and speeches of the ministers and ministers, but also of the ÖVP and FPÖ delegates. Unfortunately, however, in the near future there will always be a great deal of stress on workers, but above all on our pensioners. They are talking about the government parties wanting to continue the reforms that have been started. However, these so-called reforms mean, above all, continuation of the burden policy of the last three years on the harm and suffering of people in that country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Again, the focus is on stopping budget holes. The thoughtless downfall begins with the massive increase in social security contributions for pensioners and ends with the alleged pension reform – now suddenly new – which is nothing but an action on the back of those who have laboriously built up Austria in the years following the end of World War II. “Länger work for less pension.” – This motto is at the heart of your reflections. Men over 50 and women over the age of 40 have hardly any opportunities in the labour market. I know a lot of women and men who would like to work but who do not have a chance to work in our region and are therefore forced to seek unemployment benefit or emergency aid until retirement. In the tomorrow’s “Kronen Zeitung” you’ll find the title “The ‘Iftrike’ in Pension Reform”, and it’s in the lead: Never has a government announced such drastic cuts in the pension system. Even for 60-year-olds today, there will usually be no transitional provisions.” – Quotes. Here you can see the appreciation and your social cold toward these older people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References== The title can be found on March: “With us in the company no one survives the 49”. – The time available is now too short to go into detail. That is why I would like to take out some particularly important points. The miser begins with the abolition of the early pension. Even today, only half of the people go directly from their work and active employment to retirement, but from unemployment or emergency aid. Even during the Black-Blue I government, the retirement age was greatly increased, and the effects on the labour market were devastating. Within the last two years, unemployment in over 55 women rose by 80.3 percent in total and by 117.2 percent in over 60 years of age! It seems to be provocative, therefore, that it is at the same time that this Federal Government is holding hold on to the purchase of billioneurs of interception hunters! [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria's social democracy is committed to the need for long-term reform on the basis of the paid-back pension system. In this regard, we have also presented numerous ideas and proposals, such as the harmonisation of the pension system, the introduction of a benefit-oriented pension account, the raising of the employment rate, an independent pension scheme for women and much more. On the other hand, although we are very well aware of this, an unbalanced pension reduction reform is a one-sided one-sided one, particularly those affected by cuts in personal incomes, which have worked hard for a lifetime and are punished once again by the abolition of the early pension. Finally, a quote from the AK chief Dinkhauser from Tyrol, who, as you know, is an ÖVP member. – By him, the “Small Newspaper” quotes from 26. The following statement was made on February this year: “This is the biggest social piggy I’ve ever had. The Bible is said to read and act as it corresponds to a Christian-social party.” – Citation. There's nothing left to add to it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e20001	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Gaßner. He's done five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e20019	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the new Federal Government! I would like to introduce the words of one of my previous speakers, the lighthouse keeper and home poet Grossruck. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr Grossruck! You said that the Federal Chancellor was the lighthouse. [[Abg. Großruck: Yes, yes!]] But a lighthouse is something very static, that says! [[Abg. Scheibner: It's stable!]] There's nothing going on, just like in the government program, there's nothing going on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Drink.]] They're just headlines! I still have a second question about you. If the Federal Chancellor is the lighthouse, could you have deprived him of the tax license? – You might also be able to say that if you look at this government programme! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have tried to clarify this government programme on the term "communities". – Communities are these associations or villages in which every Austrian and every Austrian lives. Each of us lives in a community. If you look closer at the government program, you can see that the term “congregation” is hardly present. At the beginning I thought: At the Convention there will be something from the community. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] But there is only something about the principle of subsidiarity. I meant this is going down to the communities. But no! It says only that strengthening the country's rights is the task of the Convention. However, I have also seen an interesting comment in connection with the Convention, which I fully support, namely the improvement of competence in civil protection. That's what I'm for! But then it's going to continue in the empire. This is about the choice of letters, and it is said that the community has to notify. This is the new task that has been mentioned so much today! There is a new task for us, but no one has said whether we get something for it! That goes on in this form. I have found an interesting chapter on local care, which is under item 6 if someone wants to follow it. That's what it says: “Relocation of the tax authority for the transport connection charge from the municipalities to the countries.” – This is an exciting story. Who will explain to me, please, what is the traffic connection charge? I don't know her! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr Mayor! What kind of mayor are you if you don't know them?]] There's no such thing! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Yes!]] But for security's sake, we take away from the communities the authorization to deposit them. This is really very positive for us communities! Then I found something interesting and exciting. The Federal Chancellor has spoken today about saying what is. I noticed that in Chapter 17, Media, in Section 6, advertising and announcement, it reads: “Abolition of the advertising and announcement levy under the next FAG is aimed at giving new impetus to the media and advertising industry.” Mr. Federal Chancellor, I have to tell you: That's not anymore! There is no more advertising and announcement! This was converted into advertising tax two years ago, I think. And now you want to take this away from the communities? Thank you!, I can only say in the name of the communities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What is also related to the advertising tax: I read nothing about the fact that if you have to repay the drink tax on the basis of the EU judgment, then the municipalities will be relieved. I don't read about that! In addition, I have found an interesting passage concerning the public ownership directory: “A public ownership register will be drawn up for the collection of existing property in the federal, state, local and fund sectors.” – I mean: They find what they possess in communities and properties in the landbook. If they own companies, you can see it in the company book. – But you want all of this together on one note in order to probably continue privatization. Finally, another statement, another comment on this “task-oriented population key”. That sounds really good. Task-oriented means that communities get as much money as they have tasks. Only – and we will talk very carefully about this, Mr Auer: Who will determine the tasks? Is that what the communities say or are we going to do with each other? - I'd be there. Or, however, does Mr Landeshuptmann or Mr Bundeskanzler say what our task is, and then we have nothing to say at all? The trend is, after all, because, in your opinion, the district administration as the “extended arm ” of the head of state should be strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced hour and in a summary assessment of your government programme, let me say very popularly: Well, guate night!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e20145	It is not yet that far, Mr Deputies. There are still some speakers and votes. Mrs Mandak. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e20166	Mr President. High house! Dear Members of the Federal Government! I'm not just taking Your government programme is very serious, but also your government statement. In the government programme, under the item “Women”, you mentioned gender-related language use in public documents as a very important point, in prominent second place. Such a day is long, and then I have looked at this statement of government, which the Federal Chancellor has read to us today, and the balance sheet is very impressive: In fact, a total of five times there was an honorable attempt to speak of “Austrian women and Austrians”. This is, as it were, already a lot of sickness; the President himself is using it again and again. And then there was the rapid call to speak of “farmers. ” And: That's it! Done! – On the other hand, however, there are 65 expressions that contradict exactly what you yourself have stated in your government statement. It is about the concerns “our burgeon he”, it is about migrants, about social parties he is about a Europe that is noticeable to the individual, can be experienced, it is about Austria, of course it is also about compulsory education he and school he is. It is about co-operation he is concerned with employment he and work giving he to consumers in order to build up, about gastronomy en, it is even about craftsmanship he, cable car company he and demograph en. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Did you also count the additions?]] It's also about künstl he, doctor e, who have of course only patient en, it's also about the parts he's in the economy to carry performance, tax he and lastly about pensions he, and it's actually about thousands of scientists he, it's about research he, expert en, in companies, universities, research institutions. A quote from this statement of government: “To serve the citizen – to provide modern service” – this is our principle for a modern state understanding.” Dear Members of the Federal Government, I ask you: Do not just serve the guarantee, but also the citizen within! Follow your own government program! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Prince: A “Excellent” Lecture!]] I can promise you: You will not only be judged according to your beautiful, anointing words, but also according to your deeds! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e20316	No one is reported in the word anymore. I notice: We had 99 words today – and not a single call for order; this is a good balance. The debate is closed, and we are voting. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Molterer, Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues on the implementation of the government programme of the Austrian Federal Government for XXII. legislative period. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 2.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Spindelegger, Dr Bösch, colleagues on Iraq crisis. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 3.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lichtenberger, ladies and gentlemen, concerning a corresponding control system for truck transport. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr, ladies and gentlemen, on the valorization of the care allowance. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schieder, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Lunacek, colleagues on Iraq crisis. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, on the immediate termination of the withdrawal of the vessel. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mandak, fellow Members, on the abolition of the quota for family integration. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gaál, colleagues, on the stoppage of procurement for combat aircraft. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Krainer, colleagues, on the creation of a special quota for family integration. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00007_d7e20459	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 61/A to 69/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 158/J to 185/J has also been received. The agenda is exhausted. The next meeting of the National Council, which concerns business communications and allocations, will be convened at 9 p.m., in other words, at 9 p.m., following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
